i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 18 december 2020. first of all, i would like to wish all my colleagues a happy new year and hope that everyone had a good holiday.
ladies and gentlemen, 30 years ago, on 13 january 1991, 14 civilians were killed and hundreds were injured when soviet tanks attacked the television tower in vilnius. lithuanians were defending their independence and freedom, they were defending democracy and the rule of law. these are our european values and today we pay tribute to those citizens who defended these values with their lives. and speaking of fundamental values, we are deeply concerned by the arrest of alexei navalny, which took place on his return to moscow yesterday. europe saved his life and we thank the german authorities for their care and assistance. we call on the russian authorities to release mr navalny. his detention constitutes a violation of human rights; we support him and we would like him to come and visit us here in the european parliament soon.
the agenda includes the report by javier zarzalejos, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the implementation of the european arrest warrant and surrender procedures between member states (2019/2207 ((ini)) (a9-0248/2020). i would remind the honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates this part-session, as there is unfortunately at this stage, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, there are plans for remote intervention by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states, as we are now used to doing.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i present to the house the report on the application of the european arrest warrant drawn up by the libe committee. we are talking about an essential instrument of judicial cooperation and, consequently, one of the foundations of the area of freedom, security and justice. the order, which was introduced by the framework decision of 13 july 2002, is without doubt the most outstanding achievement in the field of judicial cooperation that we have achieved in the union and has paved the way for other instruments that have subsequently allowed this path of progress to continue. replacing the traditional extradition procedure, based on distrust between legal systems, with a surrender procedure based on trust and mutual recognition of judicial decisions, was a real leap forward for the rule of law and for the reparation of victims by eliminating the areas of impunity. throughout the discussion of this report - for which i have had the honour of being rapporteur - i have insisted that the european arrest warrant's track record is, on the whole, a remarkable success. but at the same time, we believe there is room for improvement. the debate on these improvements has been a complex one from a legal point of view, but it is a good and timely one. the order has raised important issues throughout its lifetime which have been largely clarified by valuable case law of the court of justice of the european union. the court has strengthened this instrument of cooperation in two ways. on the one hand, it has clearly situated the surrender procedure within the framework of the fundamental rights and procedural guarantees it must respect. it also reaffirmed the states' obligations to cooperate, avoiding any departure from the spirit and letter of the framework decision in its application and transposition into national law. i think the commission is aware of this situation, as is clear from the report it has recently presented, and we encourage it to correct these deviations, also, if necessary, through the relevant infringement procedures. the report i am presenting is based on this balance between effective cooperation and guarantees. the text is clear in proposing that the use of the order should meet criteria of proportionality and consistency with other instruments of judicial cooperation already in force and less intrusive, so that, where those instruments can achieve the same result, they are used. i would like to make it clear and conclusively clear that the concern to incorporate a framework of stringent guarantees with respect for fundamental rights is very clearly present in the text and has been the central subject of our discussions. we have not ignored the objective factors which are affecting confidence between states today, but, in the line of interpretation laid down by the court of justice, we want to maintain an attitude of extreme caution so as not to damage this crucial instrument of cooperation. delivery is the general principle, and refusal to execute an order should be the exception, interpreted narrowly and duly substantiated. the report proposes to extend the current list of 32 crimes or categories of crime that do not require double criminality control to include 10 new categories ranging from certain types of tax evasion, violence against women, web-specific crimes, hate crimes, acts of mass pollution, crimes against public order involving the grave threat or use of violence or against the constitutional integrity of states involving the use of violence, as well as crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. we believe that the logic of cooperation must lead to new spaces in which cooperation can take place more smoothly between states which protect essential legal assets, between states which are parties to and which are recognised as members of a community of law. it is precisely in order to make this cooperation more fluid that we do not overlook the practical aspects of strengthening the role and means of eurojust, as well as improving the training of legal operators, specialising the national bodies that have to deal with the delivery procedures and also improving the information available on the application of the order. i would like to thank all the groups for their contributions. we have been able to discuss this matter in the best possible spirit, and i have personally tried to make a special effort to facilitate a broad agreement which was reflected in the vote of the libe committee at the beginning of last december. i would like to stress in this connection that the commitments agreed broadly cover the vast majority of the 235 amendments which were tabled. i hope that consensus will be maintained and i hope that those who did not join that initial agreement will be able to join today. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, no one will deny that security and freedom - the binomial that is wrapped up in what we call the rule of law - are facing new challenges, new forms of crime, powerful technological means used against them, new threats of violent destabilisation, new forms of victimisation. the only alternative to impunity is cooperation. the best guarantee for the defence of fundamental rights is effective judicial cooperation against crime. this report seeks to contribute to that reflection, to contribute to strengthening this cooperation with all the guarantees that are part of the legal acquis of the european union, and to that end i ask parliament to support the text proposed today.
madam president, commissioner reynders, the euro-order is a mechanism which operates on the principles of mutual trust between states and respect for fundamental rights. but mutual trust cannot be confused with blind trust, since there are still european countries with clear deficiencies in the field of justice. that is why the debate today should be about how to strengthen procedural guarantees, not about how to get an express arrest. ladies and gentlemen, this house cannot open debates or propose reforms of mechanisms just to satisfy the repressive impulses of some. we are playing with the credibility of this parliament. adding the crime of constitutional integrity to the list of direct extradition crimes will not facilitate the arrest of catalan leaders, but will open the door to unjust or arbitrary extraditions for those states with little affection for the european values of justice and freedom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to reform and improve the council framework decision governing the euro order is of vital importance, a fact which is also indisputable for this group. membership of the european union implies respect for the rights and guarantees enshrined in article 2 of the treaty and, therefore, the removal of border controls in the schengen area cannot serve as an excuse for criminals with economic means to seek convenient fora to evade justice in the member states and avoid what happened in 2018, when only 7 000 of the 17 000 euro-warrants issued were executed. this is the case, for example, of the terrorist natividad jáuregui, who was tried by the spanish judges for the murder of lieutenant colonel ramon romeo, who spent seventeen years in belgium without the belgian courts accepting a decision of the spanish courts. despite the urgency and the scale of the problem, this own-initiative report is lukewarm and ideological in content, because, while it recognizes the fundamental principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions, it opens up numerous loopholes and avenues to avoid their application. it is an abusive instrument of the rule of law mechanism, which has nothing to do with it. we are here. we either respect the laws passed by the member states in the national parliaments or we respect the position of criminals who seek refuge in forums of convenience. it is therefore necessary for us in the european parliament to say that crimes against the integrity and constitutional order of the member states are crimes in any case, without any need to call for violence. nor do we think it is appropriate for ideological issues such as opinion crimes to be included in this reform of the euro order under the guise of hate crime or even the controversial guise of gender-based violence. for all these reasons, and out of respect for the victims in all cases, we are going to decide to abstain from voting on this decision and to ask the commission to improve this document technically, in order to guarantee the judicial sovereignty of the member states.
madam president, first of all, a big thank you to the rapporteur, mr zarzalejos. i congratulate you on this very good report, which i will be voting in favour of, as will the whole of my group. i will focus on two important aspects. first, the extension of the list of crimes, which is absolutely necessary. mrs delbos-corfield, i am not sure whether you are opposed to extending the list in general or only in respect of crimes against constitutional integrity. but i know that your group is in favour of a federal europe and federalisation. how can you be against expanding the list to include hate crimes, genocide, environmental crimes or the very crime against constitutional integrity? it is not a criminal joke that mr puigdemont or mrs ponsati, who has intervened before, have made. it is no joke to declare independence unilaterally. you know how world war ii started: by unilaterally altering a border. you saw what happened at the capitol. do you really think it's a joke to attack the constitutional order?
madam president, commissioner, nothing has done more damage to spain's image in europe than to see criminals, including politicians, roaming around belgium with impunity. europe cannot survive if we do not maintain a basic trust between countries. it is not possible to have a free movement area which leads to impunity for criminals. in recent weeks the president of the united states has been trying to subvert the constitutional order in order, as he says, to defend democracy. do you imagine that those who assaulted congress could stay in texas and the courts of texas simply refuse to let these people face the criminal consequences of their actions? nothing, no one, and least of all public officials are above the law. that is why the european parliament is today proposing a reform which includes offences against the constitutional order. i hope that the commission, mr reynders, will now follow the path set by parliament and that we will put an end to this harmful impunity.
madam president, thank you to the court of auditors for its reports, which are essential to our work of budgetary control and the protection of the financial interests of the european union. if we want to use the european budget correctly, we must first of all avoid errors in the management of the funds, and the court is very clear in this respect: the best way to reduce the risk of error is to simplify the rules. this is not at odds with having effective internal controls, which the use of new technologies can make more thorough and effective. and secondly, we must prevent fraud and corruption at all costs. we should also take advantage of new technologies, such as arachne, which is able to identify risks of fraud, conflicts of interest or other irregularities in european funds. for this reason, all member states should use it, and not just in the structural funds: also in the future recovery and resilience mechanism. simplification and new technologies will undoubtedly help to speed up the absorption of funds, which has been a matter of great concern lately, especially to those who forget the n+3 rule. let's not be shortsighted. let us focus on improving the performance and results of the european budget.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i thank the rapporteur, mrs melbārde, for her excellent work and cooperation between the political groups, and also commissioner mariya gabriel for attending our debate. the report highlights that the european year of cultural heritage has brought together all those involved in heritage at local, regional, national and european level, as well as civil society, to work together for heritage, and calls for this work to continue. we also call for the digitisation of europe's cultural heritage and for the union to step up its action, particularly in the field of education and vocational training for workers. it should also be noted that parliament was the first institution to adopt a text on cultural policy and support for heritage in 1974. forty-seven years after this report, parliament is once again a pioneering institution, partly with this position we are adopting today. but we are still a long way from some of the objectives that were set out at the time, taking into account the memorandum on community action in the cultural field, which was promoted by altiero spinelli, who gives his name to our building. we still lack community powers in the european dimension of education, culture and heritage. we also need to continue to push the fight against trafficking in cultural goods. the commissioner said it and i celebrate. we need to launch a european action plan against trafficking in cultural goods. and as regards the question of competences, i think that the conference on the future of europe can be a good opportunity to open up this debate.
madam president, the pandemic has claimed the lives of over 400 000 europeans, and we are not forgetting them. europe has never given up and has once again shown its strength in the face of one of the greatest challenges in our history. because europe is a success story, where together, public and private sector, we have achieved in record time the vaccine and its equal access for all. but this success story cannot stop here and must continue. the next six months have to take us to the end of the health crisis. the european institutions, together with national governments, must make available all the necessary resources: human resources, including all public and private health professionals, logistical and distribution resources and all the health infrastructure available so that, in the next six months, 80% of europeans are vaccinated and immunized. to do that, we need to ensure that the contracts signed with the european union on vaccines are respected. europeans are asking us for transparency and trust, for the commitments agreed to be respected so that no less vaccines arrive than initially announced within the agreed time. europeans are exhausted and so we need the member states to supply the vaccine quickly, safely and effectively; that all available doses should be put into circulation. and that is why we must demand national vaccination plans and that these be monitored and controlled by the european centre for disease prevention and control. we need a specific protocol that determines who should be injected with the surplus doses to avoid discretion and vaccine losses. mass vaccination must be another european success. we must overcome this pandemic, save lives and save jobs, because protecting everyone's health is also protecting everyone's economy and jobs. only together, with responsibility and transparency, will we sign another chapter of success for the european union.
madam president, the european vaccination strategy is a milestone in the fight against this pandemic, thanks to science and research. an equal strategy: everyone will have access to the vaccine, regardless of the status of each citizen. vaccines are also a remedy against bizarre populism, and strategy is a tool against euroscepticism. but it must be done transparently, without shortcuts. we've only been able to see one of the contracts and that's not acceptable. we must also include the debate on the vaccine passport. yes, but valid for the whole european union, alternative to the pcr test and when there is an acceptable level of immunisation. a message: vaccines are for administering, not for storing. no government should feel at ease if it does not diligently move forward with its vaccination strategy. finally, let us trust our health workers. they're the first ones who want this pandemic to end. we trust all the nurses in the european union who want to administer this vaccine now so that we can end this nightmare.
mr. president, two million people have died all over the world. a million lives in seven months was already alarming, but what are we waiting for when another million has died in just three months? vaccination in 2021 is a race against time in europe, but what will happen to people living in developing countries who won't get the vaccine until 2022? mrs zacarias of the council, commissioner kyriakides, apart from the commitment to transparency, what are we going to do from the european union? we support the covax initiative with five hundred million euros, but it is not yet fully operational for global access to vaccines. vaccines have been monopolized through bilateral contracts by the richest countries, which represent only 13% of the world's population. we need to address scarcity and distribution. five hundred million euros is too little to meet the commitment to act as a global actor, because we will not end the virus in europe until we have ended the virus worldwide. so we urgently need more producers developing the vaccine, especially in middle-income and low-income countries. we must facilitate access to knowledge. the path is marked by the world health organization and the... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
in writing. the eu is right to apply an external dimension to its vaccination strategy, as we will not end the virus in europe until we have defeated it worldwide. we must stand together against the pandemic for medical efficacy, ethical principles and to show our value as partners. europe will give partner countries access to part of the 2.3 billion doses guaranteed by its strategy. it also donates €853 million to covax. however, developed vaccines have been monopolized through bilateral contracts by the wealthier countries (13 percent of the world's population), delaying their acquisition by the poorer countries until 2022. two million people have already died. one million in seven months and another in three months. the virus is spreading faster than our vaccine rollout. so we need to address scarcity and distribution. we need more producers developing the vaccine, especially in low- and middle-income countries. we must give them access to the knowledge that develops new and affordable vaccines for everyone. we must move forward along the path indicated by who and its covid-19 technology access fund, considering vaccines as global public goods.
in writing. the eu is right to apply an external dimension to its vaccination strategy, as we will not end the virus in europe until we have defeated it worldwide. we must stand together against the pandemic for medical efficacy, ethical principles and to show our value as partners. europe will give partner countries access to part of the 2.3 billion doses guaranteed by its strategy. it also donates €853 million to covax. however, developed vaccines have been monopolized through bilateral contracts by the wealthier countries (13 percent of the world's population), delaying their acquisition by the poorer countries until 2022. two million people have already died. one million in seven months and another in three months. the virus is spreading faster than our vaccine rollout. so we need to address scarcity and distribution. we need more producers developing the vaccine, especially in low- and middle-income countries. we must give them access to the knowledge that develops new and affordable vaccines for everyone. we must move forward along the path indicated by who and its covid-19 technology access fund, considering vaccines as global public goods.
in writing. covid-19 is having serious consequences, but for the first time since the crisis began we have the means to combat it: mass vaccination strategies. our biggest priority for 2021 must be to vaccinate everyone as quickly as possible. every day of delay is a toll we pay with more people infected, more deaths and a badly damaged economy. the european commission has managed to secure millions of doses of various covid-19 vaccines. no member state could have done this alone and this should make us proud to be europeans. we know that working together we get further, so we must continue on this path throughout the vaccination process. but this process can only be guaranteed by transparency. we need transparency in purchasing and data. without reliable data, we cannot design vaccination strategies that work well. the member states must do their part. there's a lot at stake. the institutions must provide all the support we can to speed up the vaccination process as soon as possible. science has done its part, now we must do ours. the future of europe depends on it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and thank him and the other rapporteurs for the work they have done to reach consensus. the review of the trans-european transport network policy will be one of the cornerstones of the new green deal and will make it possible to update the network in terms of sustainability, digitalisation and safety. with this own-initiative report, we aim to promote multimodal mobility that takes advantage of the benefits of each mode of transport and is interoperable, safe and accessible for all users. we want to see more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail, inland waterways or motorways of the sea, prioritised and alternative fuels deployed effectively for all modes of transport. the revision of the ten-t regulation is a unique opportunity to make progress in the implementation of the basic network of crossborder sections and outstanding links, but also of the global network, which ensures that all territories are connected. it is an opportunity to make progress in economic and social cohesion, in territorial development and also in bringing european citizens closer together. a chance to build more europe. the completion of the european corridors is essential to achieve this. in the case of spain, the review will be a unique opportunity to complete the atlantic and mediterranean corridors and, therefore, the cantabrian-mediterranean corridor, which is of great importance for the well-being of the citizens and the regional, social and economic development of my region, aragon. but we must ensure that the infrastructure is of quality and that it is monitored for maintenance; that it is resilient and can withstand environmental shocks such as that of the storm filomena, which has caused severe damage to infrastructure and has left many villages - thousands of people in large parts of spain - isolated and uncommunicated. and all this requires sufficient funding. this past year, the coronavirus crisis has made us appreciate more than ever the importance of being connected to ensure the smooth running of the supply chain, and also to be able to be close to our own or to be able to go and meet new places and cultures. in the coming months, the transeuropean network faces another challenge: the distribution of vaccines. so it will be an opportunity to adapt the network to this kind of circumstance, although hopefully it's exceptional.
mr president, many of us here have no doubt about the european commission's firm commitment to complete the corridors by 2030, and especially the commissioner's personal commitment. however, after more than 30 years of european transport policy, i am very sorry to say that we are too far from that point and that objective. in spain alone we have been years behind schedule, with promises that have not been kept, with lack of investment, with budgets that have not been implemented, with work that has not been started on some of the sections of both the mediterranean corridor and the atlantic corridor. and in spain not having a circular railway network linked to a radial network is simply and plainly a lack of interest and political will on the part of the nation's government. it is of little or no use for this house to debate and approve initiatives aimed at promoting corridors if, later on, these commitments are not taken up as their own in the european capitals. so, dear commissioner, what i propose and what i ask you to do is to use all the possible tools that you have at your disposal to urge precisely all the national governments to make the corridors, once and for all, in that framework of recovery and resilience plans. he knows that in this case, he will always have us by his side.
madam president, open border societies are a deliberate failure and, if you insist, you are complicit, as is my nation's government. the societies in which everyone is a member, without law, without order and without the will to integrate into europe, are a failure. of course, labor will be cheap and the privileged have security, while our working classes suffer from the insecurity of their neighborhoods and unemployment. spain is being invaded by thousands of young men of military age with no right to asylum, who have landed en masse on our shores or have been lured by the mafias and with the cowardly gaze of the administrations. yesterday alone, more than 20 vessels entered spain: from alhucemas to granada, from algeria to almeria and more than 1 300 illegal immigrants also in the canary islands. we want european solidarity by protecting europe's borders, but not by spreading chaos across the continent. you are concerned about the false refugees; i am concerned about the spaniards who are on the front line. will any of you go and pay your respects to the victims of the upcoming jihadist attack by a fake refugee? will any of you go see the 94-year-old spanish woman who was raped saturday by a fake refugee in lérida? you may go on feasting, but don't let the cakes swallow you when that other europe you are leading to ruin rises up.
madam president, madam commissioner, the violation of rights at the eu's external borders is a fact and there are those responsible. this is evidenced by the book which my colleague has already presented, which mrs johansson is of course aware of, and which we will certainly send to the portuguese presidency. it's important to point this out because, in the face of the far-right narrative, which we just saw, those who come to europe are not a threat. but, unfortunately, immigration policy is getting closer and closer to this story of the ultras. and i say this even if commissioner schinas doesn't like it. of course, as with everything, in immigration policy there are choices. put the resources to build stronger communities or put them to militarize, build walls and cause enormous human suffering. and the best example of the second is frontex, that european mercenary agency which is out of control, riddled with scandals, which no one knows how it works and, above all, to whom it is accountable. hot returns, violation of international law, big parties at the expense of public money, opaque hiring, lies in parliamentary headquarters: a spectacular race. in fact, today it's a cry in the press, the director of frontex is a liar. in short, do we want to solve the problems and ensure respect for human rights? well, among other things, let's investigate, let's find out what's going on with frontex and let's assume that mr leggeri has two options: resign or be fired.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last month we had the opportunity to visit gran canaria and witness a reality that reminded us of that of moria and kara tepe in greece. in this connection, i must denounce the attitude of the spanish government, which did not allow several members of the european parliament to enter the barranco seco camp. we have nevertheless seen the presence of minors in the camp, the accommodation in tents in 'practically' closed enclosures, where thousands of migrants are illegally detained for 15 days, when the legal limit is 72 hours. and we were informed that, until last november, migrants held on the island were not allowed access to legal counsel. it is not only the spanish government that is responsible for this situation. the moroccan government, which is the main recipient of european aid of an international character, is increasing the migratory pressure to influence the spanish and european position in the conflict in western sahara, which is now again at war after the breach of the ceasefire by the alawite kingdom. the european pact on immigration and asylum is useless: it only talks about containment, border control and returns, and not about acceptance. and above all, it is not part of the right to migrate as a human right and therefore does not conform to european human rights standards. no more morias, mrs johansson, not in greece or at any external eu border.
in writing. we must not get used to refugees being crammed into unheated, wet tents at the eu's external borders in freezing temperatures and border staff resorting to brutal violence against those seeking protection. we must not get used to frontex carrying out pushbacks at the external borders on behalf of the eu, in breach of international law. it is long overdue for the anti-corruption agency olaf to take a hard look at the mismanagement and excesses of violence by frontex. however, the ongoing investigations by the eu ombudsman oreilly and the anti-corruption authority, as well as the infringement procedures against the hungarian asylum policy, are not sufficient to fully address the shortcomings. the commission's proposal for a new pact on asylum and migration is not currently showing any substantial improvement either. we must finally open a new chapter in european asylum and migration policy in the name of fundamental rights and solidarity! we can't keep it like this! the situation at the eu's external borders will only ease once a european distribution key for refugees relieves the eu's first host countries and legal pathways for immigration to europe are in place. president von der leyen and other european heads of state or government, please start the evacuation of the camps! finally, show that you do not just preach about fundamental rights and humanity in sunday speeches, but that you understand them as an explicit call to action!
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the arrest of aleksei navalny (2021/2513 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the arrest on live tv of the russian opposition leader, alexei navalny, upon his return to moscow last sunday, is unacceptable both to europe and to the international community, who believe in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. yesterday, i issued, on behalf of the european union, a declaration with a clear message that we condemn the arrest of mr navalny, and that we stand in strong solidarity with him. the president of the european council and the president of the commission also issued a statement in this sense. mr navalny’s rights must be fully and unconditionally respected and enforced, and the politicisation of justice is unacceptable. we call upon the russian authorities to release mr navalny and all the journalists and activists who have been detained in connection with his return. let me also share how glad i am that mr navalny has recovered from the severe poisoning he suffered in august 2020. my biggest recognition goes to all those, especially the medical staff and the team around mr navalny, who have been treating and supporting him over the last months. as i said, in our plenary discussion on the case of mr navalny that we had here in september, the eu condemns in the strongest possible terms the assassination attempt, through poisoning, using a military chemical nerve agent from the novichok group. as a reaction, the european union, in october 2020, responded by imposing in a strict manner restrictive measures on six individuals and one entity involved in the assassination attempt. these are highly ranked officials in russia, including the director of the federal security service of the russian federation (fsb). as you know, any further decision on sanctions is for the council to take. i am looking forward to this very timely discussion about such an important issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, i am very concerned and strongly condemn the arrest of mr aleksei navalny upon his return to russia, just as i am very concerned and condemn the detention of several dozen of his supporters and journalists across the country. the arrest of mr navalny and its modalities clearly contravene international law and the russian constitution. i urge the authorities in moscow to release him and his supporters immediately. their rights need to be fully and unconditionally respected and enforced. these latest developments further deteriorate the already strained relations between the european union and russia. the intimidation and political persecution of government critics in russia must stop. dear josep borrell, i am thankful for your strong and clear words immediately after the arrest of mr navalny, and again this afternoon. indeed, the politicisation of the russian judiciary is unacceptable. the poisoning and the arrest of mr navalny are just the latest of many arguments to reassess our relations with russia. as the european union, we should be very clear in our response and expand the so far introduced sanctions to individuals implicated in his arrest and those who gave orders to do so. as of december 2020, the eu has the instrument of a global human rights sanctions regime. we shouldn’t hesitate to use this tool when and where necessary.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear high representative, dear colleagues, aleksei navalny must be released immediately. his arrest is wrong on so many levels – like the legal level, domestic politics level and from an international point of view, not to mention on a human level. it takes guts for alexei navalny, who has been subject to beatings, harassment, attacks, arrests and poisoning with a chemical weapon to return to his homeland and face yet another arrest and sentencing immediately upon his arrival. once again we are facing a situation in russia where the victim is jailed and those responsible for his poisoning walk free. the eu must influence russia to release navalny immediately, to stop harassing opposition activists and the political opposition, to stop using chemical weapons on its own people and start following international law and its obligations taken thereunder. the eu must be united in its approach to russia regarding its sanctions policy, but also in its other policy spheres, like energy policy for example. clearly if somebody like navalny, who has been so badly treated by its own government, the security forces and its political system, still finds in himself such a calling or a mission to return to his homeland to keep fighting for human rights and democratic principles, this must find adequate support on the european union level as well. also the people of russia deserve full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner borrell, what has happened in recent months in the navalny affair is unacceptable. democracy must follow certain principles, it must follow certain rules: the european union and its member states have done well to condemn in the strongest terms what has happened. we cannot allow that there are states close to us, with whom we cooperate and with whom we have dialogue, which use the judicial weapon or even, potentially, the weapon of the bomb to silence the political opposition. respect for civil, human and political rights must always be at the heart of relations between our member states, between the european union and third countries. so we have done well at many levels and the international community has done well in condemning what happened and in calling for clarity, to ensure that the russian authorities allow the international community to clarify what happened in navalny. but i believe, commissioner borrell, that in order to be fully credible in its request, the european union should have a common approach with all the third countries with which we are in dialogue and cooperation. i believe that what has happened recently with china is not a clear example of how the european union should, unanimously and uniformly, condemn such behaviour. although we know very well that in china the respect of human rights, civil rights and political rights is not guaranteed - and what is happening in hong kong is proof of this - we decide to sign agreements with this country turning a blind eye to someone's commercial interests. i believe that this attitude must change, otherwise the european union and the member states will not and cannot be effective in their demand for respect for human rights.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, we join the denunciation of the arrest of mr navalny upon his arrival in moscow, months after he was poisoned. we are pleased that he has recovered and condemn this illegal, intolerable and inhumane act. it cannot be otherwise, since we condemn the persecution of people anywhere in the world. this is the second time we have debated this case in this parliament. so, what are we looking for? are we looking for our leadership in defense of democracy, human rights, foreign policy? russia is not included in the european union's neighbourhood policy because it is understood - as this institution makes very clear - as a threat to european security. depending on the interest of the country with which we deal, we approach the relationship from the denunciation of human rights, economic bonanzas or directly silence it. we believe that this parliament should be an instrument for building a european foreign policy which defends democracy and human rights, both in our own country and in the world. we condemn unequivocally the actions of mr navalny in russia and we ask this parliament to speak out and not to silence the barbarities that are taking place today, such as the saudi five-year sentence of luyain al-hazlul for defending women's rights, israeli apartheid, consolidated even further by vaccination only for israelis, or the eight murders in a fortnight of human rights defenders in colombia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on sunday, in an airport that had been changed just minutes before landing and equipped with armour for the occasion, alexei navalny took his first steps back home after a long stay in hospital in germany. these steps, however, led him to a police station, where he was met by a surprise jury ready to sign the order confirming his 30-day detention. now the brave navalny risks a commutation of his sentence, from suspended to effective for three and a half years, and we risk history repeating itself: as happened in 2018 for the presidential elections, a politically influenced ruling could exclude him from the september 19 elections to the duma. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are defending democracy and the rule of law in order to prevent abuses, abuses of the law by states and their governments. democracy means not the claim of the majority to impose itself at all costs, but above all the protection of the rights of the opposition. that is why our voice must be raised loud and clear to the russian authorities: no to political trials, yes to the immediate release of alexei navalny.
madam president, colleagues, high representative, the arrest of aleksei navalny upon his return to moscow is a show of lawlessness and putin’s utter contempt for the civil rights of his own citizens. just four months ago, navalny barely survived an fsb assassination attempt and on sunday, he returned home defiant, willing to risk his freedom for his cause to display the corruptness of this regime. putin did not succeed in killing him, so now he jails him. and, this means that the eu must hold the kremlin accountable, and not with the weak sanctions we imposed on six individuals after navalny’s poisoning. we need to discuss serious sanctions if navalny remains in jail. and honestly, anyone who still believes that we should continue with nord stream 2 is blind for what kind of regime we are dealing with in moscow. it is time we as well show some bravery.
madam president, high representative, it’s very important that this house condemn in its strongest terms the treatment of aleksei navalny by the kremlin and the russian regime. this has been the most severe breach of human rights that one can imagine – an attempted murder by the regime, very well exposed – and now that the european union has the fresh mechanism on dealing with human rights violations anywhere in the world, we have to put this into action. i think the whole chain of command must be exposed. a lot of it is already known. we also need an international independent investigation into what actually has happened. now this is a great opportunity to shed light on the forthcoming elections in russia, what could happen to all of the opposition, and this parliament and the european union has to give all its support to the opposition to have a full role in the russian system to turn it slowly into a democracy. so the elections by september 2021 will be a very crucial moment.
madam president, the arrest of alexei navalny on his arrival in russia is, of course, an insult to all of us, to the entire international community and, especially, to europe. europe really needs to think about why it is so easy to spit in our face at a people who have so much to do with us, a very important neighbour of ours. and that is that europe has no credibility. we have created the magnitsky act, but we lack that credibility, because putin knows very well that in china there are at the moment far more brutal human rights violations than theirs, and yet, for christmas, we have given an investment agreement to mr xi jinping, who violates the laws far more than they do. cuba is beating its opponents every day this christmas, like never before and runs torture centers in venezuela: because we are giving them money with an agreement that they never fulfill. turkey is brutally repressed, and brussels is very much in favour of it, but it is never sanctioned. and of course, putin knows that he has nord stream; a nord stream that's still there, with the first and second running. and you know it.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on strengthening the eu's external action in latin america and the caribbean following the last eu-lac ministerial conference (2020/2915 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, dear members of the european parliament, at the foreign affairs council meeting in october, the european union ministers and i agreed that our relations with latin america and the caribbean have not been high enough in our political agenda and that we should change this, not just by saying but through concrete action. the first act of this action was the ministerial conference that the german presidency hosted in berlin on 14 december, which i had the honour to chair, and i think it was a great success. 49 foreign ministers from the european union, latin america and the caribbean participated in berlin together with leading partners like the european investment bank, the eu-lac foundation and the eu-american general secretariat. the european parliament also play an important role. the chairs of the committees on foreign affairs (afet), international trade (inta) and development (deve) as well as the chair of the eurolat and the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly were also invited to participate as observers. dear members, as we wait for the incoming president, joe biden (president of the united states, evidently), there is a strong interest about the new transatlantic relationship with washington. however, on the other side of the atlantic there is not only the us; sometimes when you talk about transatlantic relations it looks like on the other side there is only the united states. there are other transatlantic relations. we must not forget these other transatlantic relations – the one that unites europe with latin american and caribbean countries. we, in many respects, are the closest people in the world. we share a history, dramatic history but our history, languages and cultural values. we have a dense network of institutional ties with the region. we have political and trade cooperation agreements with 27 out of the 33 countries in this region. it’s one of the most dense networks of institutional relations that we have with any other region in the world. we are the third largest trading partner, the third – we were the second, now the second is china, every day more present in latin america, and china has recently moved ahead of us. but we are still the leading investor in latin america, with a direct investment stock worth almost eur 800 billion at the end of 2018. and i want to tell you something that people are surprised at, because it’s not very well known. the investment of the european union economy’s firms in latin america is bigger that what we have been investing in china, in india, in japan and russia all together. all together, not one by one. more than in china, plus india, plus japan, plus russia – surprising, but it’s real. our investment focuses on a strategic sector – telecommunications and energy – and these are priority areas for our green deal and the digital transformation. so, as demonstrated during the ministerial conference in berlin, our regions fully agree on the need to defend multilateralism and will join forces to advance towards a greener, more sustainable development model. together we represent almost one third of the votes in the united nations. it’s a big political potential. our aggregated influence, as a standard-setter, will become even stronger. together we can better tackle the existing health crisis and its socio-economic consequences. latin american and caribbean countries have been very active, particularly in the covid-19 pandemic. unhappily they have been heavily hit. with 8% of the world population, the region represents one third of global deaths and now is facing the biggest economic recession in its history. the pandemic is exacerbating structural gaps, inequalities and social exclusion. the increase in social unrest does not help, particularly where governments are making a strong effort to tackle the structural violence. these are, i think, good and enough reasons why we must show real solidarity and engagement with latin america. we are already doing something – more than something; not enough, but quite a lot. we are already the region’s leading development cooperation partner and the leading provider of humanitarian assistance. we have mobilised eur 2.4 billion in emergency aid to help latin america to fight against the pandemic. it looks a lot, but it’s a drop of water in the ocean of the need they have. this is, however, not enough, given the scale of the problem. dear members of the european parliament, working together with our transatlantic partners on environmental issues is especially important, given that latin america is home to 50% of the world’s biodiversity – and don’t forget the amazon rainforest is the major lung for our planet. as part of the green partnership with the region, we are preparing a key european initiative that can address the drivers of deforestation of the amazon. that will be aligned with the 2019 leticia pact. we also look ahead to the cop26 in 2021. we all need to step up our ambitions on climate issues, as we agreed also in berlin. there we also agreed on the need to promote digital alliances to make the most of the opportunities offered by people focused on digital technologies. you know that we are going to have a new underwater optic cable stretching across the atlantic. it’s called bella. it’s a digital highway for knowledge and exchange of information between our countries: a powerful example of the benefits of working together. in a nutshell, the berlin ministerial conference has confirmed that we are on the right track, but we have to go quicker – we have to speed up our relationship. the track is good, but we are too slow. we have important work in front of us. this year we need to move forward with the signature and ratification of our modernisation agreement with mexico and chile, as well as an eu agreement with mercosur, which has been in negotiation for 20 years. i know these are sensitive issues, but we cannot say that we want to engage and to be best partners and to work together with latin america and not ratify in the way that you consider appropriate, because this parliament has to ratify this agreement, these long deal agreements with mercosur and the modernisation of the agreements with mexico and chile, who have a long story behind them. they were the first and the best agreements that we signed with a third country. they have provided extraordinarily good results and they have to be modernised. mexico is this year the chair of the latin american countries association. this is a good year to sign this agreement. this is a good year to have a high-level meeting with latin america. in the last five years we haven’t celebrated any summit with latin american countries. here in brussels we have a summit almost every day with someone. in the last five years, we haven’t had any one with latin america. do you think it is a sensible thing? no, it’s not. so i would like the parliament to put on all the pressure in order to reinvigorate our relations with latin america and to take seriously the ratification of the agreements with mexico and chile and to look for a solution for the mercosur. i know that this parliament has already said that under the current circumstances and the way it is, it will not be ratified by the honourable members. let’s look for a solution. let’s look for a complementary statement, declaration, whatever you can imagine, but don’t throw through the window 20 years of effort and work, go back to the initial point and tell the latin american countries that in this difficult moment of their history we are not going to agree with them in order to increase our economic and trade and investment relationship. i really urge you to take this very much into consideration. these ambitious treaties include political, cooperation, trade, and sustainable development aspects which will reinforce our ties and our shared defence of an international rules-based order, and from any point of view we will be better off with these association agreements than without them. you can rest assured that the position of this parliament is well noted, and please help me, help us, help the commission, help the council, on working to set the right conditions for the entry into force of these agreements.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr borrell, i am very pleased that the meeting of the european union and latin america and the caribbean ministers took place, albeit online. we cannot allow our relations to weaken and our dialogue to be interrupted, as we are talking about blocs with so many affinities and so many common interests. it is five years now, as you have just said, since there has been a summit between the european union and latin america and the caribbean. in the meantime, the global challenges that europeans and latin americans must face in a coordinated way are increasing. along with climate change, covid-19 has also emerged, which is having such an impact on both continents. but it is also true that they will increase the instruments to strengthen our relationship. i am also referring to the eu-mercosur agreement, which i hope will be approved soon after so much effort and so long a negotiating effort. i hope that this will also be a priority for the portuguese presidency. i would also like to highlight the recent conclusion of the negotiations to modernise the eu-mexico association agreement. i hope that the negotiations on the agreement with chile will be concluded soon. i do not want to forget an essential aspect of the relationship: the commitment to democracy and the rule of law. in this connection, i would like to stress that, following the recent fraudulent elections in venezuela, the european union cannot weaken the institutional recognition enjoyed by juan guaidó. the lima group has not done so. neither should the european union. and, on the other hand - and i will end here - with the new us administration, it will be possible to have an intensive dialogue with washington in order to try to advance the cause of democracy and respect for basic freedoms in countries like venezuela through coordinated action. the commission also intends to promote triangular development cooperation operations in the region.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a report on the situation in latin america. our neighborhood is urgent and has been for the past few years. but latin america is important and sometimes we have to assert this importance and, therefore, support the efforts made this december with this important ministerial conference. and that somehow parliament and the high representative - with their explanation - try to push forward a constructive agenda of mutual agreement between the union and latin america for the coming years. an agenda, which supports this parliament and, in particular, the eurolat assembly, and which includes the following elements: first, the re-establishment of the bi-regional dialogue at the highest level, which has been stuck for five years, as has been said. second, to step up our cooperation, now to fight the pandemic -- vaccines are a good example -- but also for a joint economic recovery, which takes into account climate change, gender equality, debt relief, inequality and also strengthening democracy. thirdly, greater coordination in multilateral fora, with the potential of thirty-three plus twenty-seven, in a common world view based on dialogue and rules. fourthly, to adapt our cooperation to the needs of middle-income countries, and fifthly - and this is very important - the agreements: to accelerate with chile, mexico and mercosur an agenda to turn our relations from an old friendship into a true alliance.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr high representative, mr borrell, i share your desire to promote bi-regional relations with latin america and i acknowledge the personal effort you are making to bring them about. i share your concerns about the chinese presence in the region. i share with you the need to push forward our relations, the transatlantic vision, from point barrow to cape horn. i share with you that important and strategic vision which is fundamental for the future of the european union. but sharing means going beyond, because words are not enough. words are not enough. we have to make them concrete, because the challenges we face are common: environmental challenges, sustainability challenges, human rights challenges. the future presents us with common challenges and we must have common instruments to meet them. and these go through values that are commitment, collaboration, complicity and cooperation, based on a principle, that of mutual respect. mutual respect, which goes beyond calling our friends allies and partners. this is also the case by strengthening the few instruments we have in common to meet common challenges, one of which is trade agreements. i ask you to urge this house to ratify trade agreements as the instrument we have to tackle common challenges together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, high representative and vice-president, i applaud the strong commitments made on the green and digital recovery of our regions, but i regret that the ministerial conference failed to address the worsening situation of human rights. in honduras, the harassments and attacks against environmental defenders continue, with european and american companies often directly or indirectly involved. the guapinol environmental defenders who were finalists of the sakharov prize last year, have now spent more than 500 days in pre-trial detention for defending their water resources against a mining company. at the same time, the covid-19 pandemic has aggravated the inequalities in latin america. the eu needs to support the right to vaccination for everyone, especially for those living in extreme poverty and under difficult sanitary situations. i am also worried that some leaders are taking the pandemic as an excuse to restrain civil rights and democratic freedoms such as in el salvador and in nicaragua. but i have also in mind the pictures from yesterday of guatemala where the army attacks a honduran ‘caravan’ of refugees. the respect of human rights should be at the core of the eu-lac partnership. i therefore ask you, mr borrell: how will the eu use this strategic partnership to prevent violations against human rights defenders, to counter inequalities and to address the shrinking spaces for civil society in latin america?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr borrell, we are in full agreement: the december ministerial summit reminds us of how much we still have to do and how far behind we are in relations with ibero-america. with an ibero-america that is, really, the continent that most resembles us. a continent where europe is really reflected, and with which we could have that very special relationship for that joint policy. but we need democracy, and we need democracy in europe, where there are also very questionable developments - among others, in our country, mr borrell. then we have to look at the great threats that exist in ibero-america, with the são paulo forum, we have china, we have drug trafficking, we have cuba manufacturing, really, from the são paulo forum and from the puebla group, this whole general offensive against democracy... we must fight against them, because otherwise there is no possible agreement with these increasingly powerful tyrannies financed precisely by this unstoppable narco-socialism.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, we welcome and recognise the potential impetus that can be derived from renewed cooperation with latin america and the caribbean. the need to promote the green and digital transition was underlined, and today i would like to remind you that you cannot fight climate change while mines are being opened or large european power stations are allowed to enrich themselves with macro-projects, as we saw a few days ago in guatemala. latin america must be given priority in the european union's external relations, supporting the democratic processes that organised civil society is succeeding in bringing about, from the chilean plebiscite to the victory of democracy in bolivia, in the face of the innumerable abuses suffered. unfortunately, we have either subordinated ourselves to the us agenda or we have not been present, and this must change. right now, latin america is one of the battlegrounds in the defense of democracy, with a "reactionary international" ready for anything. and today i would like to remind the need to defend the human rights of people who are being persecuted and killed, and also to send a message to ecuador and say that, in the face of candidates like andrés arauz, who are being threatened, we need a process that is fair to prevail and that the people of ecuador can demonstrate freely.
madam president, we welcome the return of latin america to the agenda of the plenary in a constructive way. we hope that this approach will continue. this region, marked by inequality, needs european partners to recover from covid. on the other side of the atlantic, there are reliable partners. as you said, mr borrell, this is the other transatlantic relationship, one in which we can go hand in hand to tackle global challenges and cooperate on common values, such as human rights. european companies have invested more in latin america than in china, japan, russia and india combined. we must make progress on the agreements and, in particular, on the association agreement with mercosur, which is not a mere trade agreement, but has a geopolitical and strategic dimension. in the face of the tension between the united states and china, this agreement is key to preventing us from being placed in a subordinate position. let us do everything possible to get it ratified by this parliament with additional environmental guarantees, in the style of the democratic clause introduced in 1991 at the initiative of argentina, considering this clause as an essential element in line with the green pact, which is perfectly compatible. let us continue to build bridges between brotherly peoples.
madam president, the new multiannual budget of the european union contains, for the first time in history, a specific item for security and defence. it is another step in the process of militarization which we have been denouncing for some time: 13 000 million euros to finance military missions, almost 50% more than is allocated to the european health budget. funds to finance military missions abroad - like the one we have in niger or mali - to control migration or to finance the arms industry. the european union injects billions into companies that produce weapons that we then sell to israel or saudi arabia so that they can continue to attack the palestinian people or bomb yemen. we have a totally militarist security and defence policy, when in reality the european union is not under attack. the biggest beneficiary of all this is still the united states, with its policy of constant aggression, while maintaining military bases and nuclear weapons on our territory. the resources of the people cannot be used to fatten up nato any longer.
madam president, mr borrell, i would like to thank colleagues mcallister, santos and mikser for their work. an essential element of our foreign policy - you have said so - is the promotion of our values: the extension of freedoms, the rule of law, the building of mature democracies and the fight against authoritarianism. and our main instruments - at least for the time being, we shall see what the magnitsky scheme can do - are trade agreements and soft power, awaiting what you have called the 'language of power', which must be developed and which will require further european developments in diplomacy, defence and security. but we must look at a profound change which could undermine our efforts: the european is no longer the model for countries in transition, for illiberal regimes and for nascent democracies. until now, these regimes have asked us for time to adapt, but they have not questioned that we were the model. they now feel much safer in building what they call "their model of democracy", far from our standards, but always trying to resort to a semblance of democratic legitimacy with elections that are not usually free and fair. this change erodes our ability to influence and weakens us as exporters of democracy. and it forces us to rethink our system to add a fully european diplomacy 'not built with state bits' and a renewal of the mechanisms of electoral observation.
madam vice-president, crises, including the one with covid, directly affect global change in every sense, as this report shows, both at the geopolitical level and at the economic level, necessarily reflecting on the field of human rights, but also on the achievement of democratic standards. crisis times are fertile ground for the disregard of many of the values on which our democratic societies are based, but also for populism, authoritarianism coming to the surface. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken by member states in response to the outbreak of the new coronavirus. all the other issues have not disappeared with the crisis: inequality, migration, human rights violations, climate challenges, the neglect of many vulnerable groups, the limitation of civil and democratic space, threats, poverty, misinformation. this cannot be a repeat of the world we saw in 2019. i will conclude by considering it particularly important to strengthen efforts to promote and protect economic, social and cultural rights through the european union's external policy and external action by making effective use of the human rights clauses contained in international agreements. these are our vectors of permanent change.
madam president, mr high representative, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr mcallister, for his report, which shows the importance which this parliament attaches to the union's increasingly necessary foreign policy. there are many subjects on which i would like to dwell: the southern neighbourhood, latin america, the sahel. but today we are at a special moment for the future of our relations with the united states. after a few years of a weakened relationship, not without some tensions, we can now intensify the dialogue with the new administration in washington and reach an ambitious shared agenda of work in which europeans also take responsibility. why not include in this bilateral agenda the relaxation of the negotiations on a transatlantic trade and investment agreement? we are in a particularly serious situation: the covid crisis, with its lasting economic and social consequences. the agreement would provide a boost to economic recovery and would also send a message to china that western partners are working together again to strengthen their relationship and also to set useful new rules for world trade.
madam president, mr high representative of the european union, i am firmly convinced that a strong european union cannot be conceived without a strong single defence, security and euro-army. it is no coincidence that the treaties of the european union, the treaty of amsterdam, the treaty of lisbon and the helsinki summit of 1999 all provided for defence and security and even called for the creation of a rapid reaction force of 60,000 soldiers. for this reason, it is inconceivable and unacceptable to us today, without a common defence and security, for member states of the european union to continue to sell arms to countries which violate human rights and the sovereignty of member states of the european union, such as greece and cyprus. it is inconceivable to me that the united states has the audacity and the courage to impose sanctions on turkey, while the european union not only does not impose sanctions on turkey, which continues its violations and provocations from nagorno karabakh to the mediterranean, but continues to support it financially, to finance it and to consider it a partner. i believe, mr borrell, that it is up to you to take this initiative for strong defence and security and to send the message that a strong european union does not tolerate behaviour such as that of turkey.
madam president, freedom of religion and belief is an inalienable human right and yet it is in peril across the world. freedom of religion is also an important indicator of the state of other rights and freedoms and thus an important part of supporting freedom, democracy and prosperity across the globe. from the xinjiang region of china to the middle east or countries across africa, such as mozambique, ethiopia and nigeria, freedom of religion continues to be under constant severe threat, be it from the islamist fundamentalists or other radical groups, the chinese communist party or other authoritarian regimes, or from the far left or far right of the political spectrum. persecution based on religion or belief contributes to the unprecedented level of migration facing europe, and hundreds of thousands of people are uprooted. according to the organisation open doors, in the past year there has been a 60% increase in the number of christians killed for their faith. supporting the freedom of religion and belief and religious tolerance more broadly is therefore key to addressing many of the challenges we are facing today. it is also why, together with other colleagues from this house, we continue to call on the european commission to renew the post of the eu special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief as soon as possible so that the eu is a leading voice in defending those whose rights and freedoms continue to be violated. as the situation worsens, the current pandemic and its consequences do not merely make our leadership more pressing; it makes it absolutely necessary.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank all the honourable members. i am very much aware that it’s very late. we have been accumulating delays and i have also contributed to that because i was too long in my first intervention. i am not going to try to answer all the questions that you have put in your interventions. i have to summarise by saying that, overall, all in all, i think we can be relatively satisfied by what we have achieved in 2020. i will not make hyperbolic declarations about how well we have been doing on everything, because i am very much aware that we have to do more. i prefer to say that we have to do more and better. but, at the same time, let’s value what we have done on the cfsp, csdp and human rights. covid has accelerated changes in the international landscape and this means that we have to continue working on our strategic autonomy. this only means a capacity to act, nothing more and nothing less, working with partners – and tomorrow we will have a new and important partner – reinforcing multilateralism, and remaining multilateral and autonomous – autonomous when it’s needed, and together with others when we can. in these efforts the european parliament has played, and will continue to play, an important role. i thank all of you for your contributions, and i continue to count on you to push forward the agenda of building a security and foreign policy for the european union and to protect human rights worldwide.
in writing. – the european union continues to encounter multi-faced threats to its regional security and the annual csdp report of 2020 provides a comprehensive summary of the current global issues. the report reflects on and sets main goals for the csdp accentuating the need to increase the eu`s resilience and preparedness. i want to highlight that international society must keep a unified standing and continue to condemn russia`s military intervention and illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula and the keeping of the frozen conflict in moldova. we strongly disapprove of russian violations of international law, attempts to destabilise the region and oppression of opposition. i support the need to introduce more robust strategy and endorse the necessity to proactively counter aggressive and malicious disinformation campaigns coming from third countries and non-state actors. attention must be paid to the fact that eu is witnessing an unprecedented scale of state-sponsored disinformation campaigns in the eastern neighbourhood countries and other regions. this calls for a need to also strengthen the mandate of the eeas strategic communication team to address foreign interference. i will express strong support to the annual csdp report with my vote.
in writing. today i would like to highlight the important report by ms santos, as the issue of human rights and democracy in the world is an important part of the european union's policy. it affects international relations and is also a reference point for internal community relations. the crisis caused by the global covid-19 pandemic and the way countries have responded to it have reduced the sense of economic and legal security, especially for the most vulnerable and marginalised groups. this has caused a crisis in international relations. in addition, human rights activities have been severely affected. the crisis caused by the pandemic has led many countries to adopt measures that restrict civil liberties. there were reasonable doubts as to their necessity, proportionality and non-discriminatory nature. the violation of religious and religious freedoms is of particular concern. let us not forget that an important part of human rights is also the rights of national minorities, especially indigenous ones, which cannot be restricted or violated in any way, and this is unfortunately the case in many countries of the world and in the european union. the latest european initiative minority safepack, supported by over a million citizens and actively participated by poles in the vilnius region, should therefore become a model for legal solutions in the field of protection of the rights of national minorities in europe and the world, since the right to preserve one's ethnic, linguistic and cultural identity is an inalienable human right.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the latest developments concerning the national assembly of venezuela (2021/2508 ((rsp)). i would remind all members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the european parliament liaison offices in the member states.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, well i am going to jump to spanish, because to talk about venezuela i think most of the members interested in the issue will understand spanish perfectly and i would feel more comfortable, you know, to deal with such a sensitive issue. de nuevo estamos aquí para tratar de la situación en venezuela. este año, este país y su crisis política han ocupado una parte muy importante de mi trabajo, por la gravísima crisis política y humanitaria que sufre y que, a pesar de nuestros esfuerzos, no ha mejorado. hemos tenido ocasión en anteriores encuentros de discutir, informarles a ustedes y recibir sus críticas y opiniones sobre los esfuerzos diplomáticos que la unión europea ha hecho para tratar de facilitar un consenso nacional. y digo bien «nacional», porque se trataba de que hubiese un acuerdo entre los venezolanos para que se pudiesen celebrar unas elecciones a la asamblea nacional el pasado 6 de diciembre que pudiéramos considerar homologables. tal cosa no ha ocurrido y, en consecuencia, los estados miembros de la unión europea en el consejo de asuntos exteriores han expresado claramente su rechazo a esas elecciones, considerando que no se puede aceptar la forma en la que se han celebrado —como en el caso de bielorrusia, la misma cosa— y que, en consecuencia, la asamblea nacional que resulta de esas elecciones no puede considerarse legítimamente elegida. la falta de pluralismo político y la descalificación de los dirigentes de la oposición, que finalmente decidió no presentarse a los comicios —también, sobre eso, en el pasado mes de agosto tuve la ocasión de intervenir tratando de mediar entre la oposición y el gobierno, sin éxito—, sumadas a la falta de participación del electorado no nos permiten considerar que la asamblea nacional constituida el 5 de enero pasado sea representativa de la voluntad democrática, libremente expresada, del pueblo de venezuela. las elecciones no cumplieron con los parámetros internacionalmente aceptados para dar credibilidad al proceso y, mediante dos declaraciones en nombre de la unión europea, hemos dicho claramente que no podemos reconocer ni las elecciones ni la legitimidad de la asamblea resultante de ella. mantendremos la necesaria presión —calibrada y selectiva— y dialogaremos con todos los actores que estén dispuestos a trabajar por la restauración democrática del país, empezando, por supuesto, por juan guaidó y los representantes de la asamblea nacional saliente y legítimamente elegida en el 2015. es evidente que las dificultades son grandes. queda mucho camino por recorrer. y con este proceso electoral fallido se acaba de desaprovechar una oportunidad que hubiera sido muy valiosa para alcanzar el objetivo de una salida política democráticamente establecida a la crisis del país. ahora, más que nunca, debemos ayudar a nuestros amigos venezolanos —a todos los venezolanos— a superar la división política, que cada vez demuestra ser más improductiva y que ha alejado a la ciudadanía de sus líderes —como quedó demostrado también con una enorme abstención—, y la unidad de acción de la oposición venezolana es fundamental. tuvimos que reclamar esa unidad de acción en los meses previos a las elecciones y seguiremos exigiendo el fin de las amenazas contra la oposición, las persistentes violaciones de derechos humanos y que se dé protección a los actores de la sociedad civil, que cada día trabajan para proveer a decenas de miles de personas de servicios esenciales para su supervivencia. según las cifras que estiman la organización internacional para las migraciones y la oficina del alto comisionado de las naciones unidas para los refugiados, son cinco millones de venezolanos los que han salido del país. pero, si continúa la tendencia, a finales de este año pueden ser más de seis millones. el gobierno de venezuela del señor maduro niega esas cifras —las disminuye mucho—, pero yo creo que las cifras que nos dan los organismos de las naciones unidas merecen credibilidad y, si son lo que dicen ser, estamos a los niveles de siria. a finales de este año puede haber tantos emigrantes venezolanos como los ha habido en siria por una atroz guerra civil. por lo tanto, señoras y señores miembros del parlamento europeo, tenemos que afrontar la situación con honestidad y con la voluntad de encontrar soluciones. las soluciones no serán exógenas. no se alcanzarán con declaraciones y mucho menos con intervenciones militares. tampoco se forjarán de la noche a la mañana internamente en venezuela. pero si algo podemos hacer desde europa —desde luego, podemos y debemos hacerlo— es apoyar a los protagonistas verdaderos de esta tragedia —que son los venezolanos— promoviendo el acercamiento de posiciones para la convocatoria de nuevas elecciones sobre bases que ambas partes puedan aceptar. y repito, la única salida duradera a los graves problemas de venezuela será una que sea políticamente dialogada, integradora, pacífica, con la participación de todos los actores políticos de la sociedad civil. sé que eso es difícil; la experiencia nos lo ha demostrado —y a mí personal y directamente de una manera evidente en este año pasado—. requerirá una voluntad de diálogo y concesiones por parte de todos los actores. la nueva administración americana puede también contribuir a este proceso. este parlamento sabe mejor que ninguno la importancia del consenso, y también sabemos que, en todas las transiciones políticas que ha habido en el mundo, la solución ha sido pactada. es fundamental que se acerquen posiciones para que venezuela no siga cayendo en el vacío de su crisis. vamos a convocar al grupo internacional de contacto. no lo hemos hecho hasta ahora por las dificultades logísticas que implicaban las circunstancias de la covid en muchos países. ha habido una toma de posición por parte de la unión europea; otra, por parte del grupo de lima. y, para terminar, y a escasas veinticuatro horas de la inauguración de un nuevo gobierno en estados unidos, permítanme —aparte de reiterar la felicitación al nuevo presidente— esperar que podamos compartir con la nueva administración americana —un socio imprescindible— esfuerzos para promover esta solución pacífica, dialogada e integradora que necesita venezuela. estaremos en contacto con la nueva administración —como lo estamos con la delegación noruega y con otros agentes políticos— para seguir trabajando políticamente con este fin. y también espero el apoyo del parlamento europeo a través de sus deliberaciones, debates y tomas de posición para contribuir a conseguirlo.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, we are discussing today something as relevant to institutional credit as legitimacy. on the one hand, the legitimacy of the national assembly of venezuela of 2015, recognized as the only representative government. and on the other hand, the legitimacy of this house itself. it is indisputable that the european parliament is the voice of the people's will, a directly elected institution of the european union, with a mandate from over 400 million citizens spread over its 27 member states, the ultimate expression of sovereign democracy. however, if we are to embody the voice of that popular mandate, we must respect, recognize and empower the legitimate voice of citizens who find themselves in these critical circumstances and, in many cases, put their own integrity at stake in pursuit of freedom. as representatives of our citizens it is our duty, through the resolution which is due to be adopted this coming thursday - and for which i ask the full support of this house - to send a formal statement which will influence the foreign policy of the european union and which will be implemented as a binding decision. the european union needs a strong, clear and coherent foreign policy which demands in its relations with third countries values such as democracy, respect for fundamental rights, human dignity, freedom, equality and the rule of law, values on which our union is founded. mr president, to refuse to recognise the will of the european parliament is to jeopardise its legitimacy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr high representative, once again we have spoken about venezuela in this house. firstly, what i would like to do on behalf of my group is to support the statements made by the high representative on this matter, both in december and in january, which combine the following elements: the rejection of the legislative elections for not taking place in an inclusive manner and with guarantees this december; the recognition of all the political actors in the country and the demand for their protection and freedom; and the need to set an electoral horizon - an electoral route for the country with guarantees and monitoring by the international community - and at the same time demand relief from the humanitarian situation facing venezuelans inside and outside the country. this is the only possible position: democratic demand, respect for the law and constructive will. i hope that this parliament will be able, once again, to reach agreements to make its voice heard. because otherwise, sometimes we make our opinions and resolutions into simply toasts to the sun or political maneuvers to use in the wear of some governments or positions. that is what this parliament has to do: build consensus. and this time, it seems he didn't want to.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr borrell, we are here for a word. on 6 january you published a statement on behalf of the european union on the situation in venezuela following the electoral fraud of 6 december. among the 3400 words there was one hidden, not particularly visible, but which alone radically changed the agreed position of the european institutions as a whole. that word was "outstanding". that's what he called the national assembly. we thought this had been a mistake in diplomatically ambiguous wording, but no. you made it clear it was a mistake. and we're here today to change that word. mr borrell, the european union is not just the council or the commission: it is its three institutions, and especially the european parliament, which is the depository of the sovereignty of all the european citizens. and it has to send an unequivocally clear message to all venezuelan citizens and to the world. this parliament recognises the continuity of the mandate of the national assembly and that of juan guaidó as legitimate interim president until the holding of genuinely democratic elections in venezuela. and it does so for a key issue in a democracy: institutional continuity. an institution cannot be suspended if it is not guaranteed renewal of its mandate, and that is impossible with fraudulent elections. so, for reasons of institutional support, but also for the protection and shelter of the members of the national assembly, for strategic and existential reasons, this parliament must make it very clear that those who break the consensus are those who leave it, and there is a way: to return. to return to consensus, and consensus is recognition, dialogue and free and democratic elections in venezuela.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, as a preliminary point, i would like to remind you that in the last three years we have adopted nine resolutions on venezuela, nine. it comes out to an average of three a year. it's not bad. the attention paid by this parliament to this caribbean country is truly commendable. that said, we agree that the situation in venezuela is very delicate. but precisely for this reason, and because we do not want it to get any worse, we in this parliament must be more responsible than ever in what we say and what we do. we also agree that the way forward is to work to normalize the political and institutional situation so that the citizens of venezuela can have more inclusive and representative institutions. all right, if we agree on this, i ask: do you think that, after the last elections, continuing to recognize mr guaidó and the previous national assembly as the only legitimate and representative actors brings us closer to reconciliation and a dialogue solution to the crisis? give me one example of how this recognition has benefited the outcome of the conflict. i'm telling you, not at all. more questions: do you think reconciliation will be achieved without anyone talking to nicolás maduro, his government and the recently elected national assembly, who "like it or not" exist, are there, and we cannot ignore this reality? i think that mr borrell's statement on behalf of the european union, not extending the recognition of mr guaidó as president, is a reasonable step. we will be found in those constructive actions that really serve to improve the situation of democracy, social justice and economic progress in venezuela, but we will not be found in propaganda actions, neither on one side nor the other.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr borrell, we already know that this is a subject you do not like to talk about, and i am very sorry that the green group, which really emerged for the defense of freedoms, is now defending a tyranny and, above all, a mafia, such as the government of nicolás maduro, involved as it is in all the drug trafficking in the entire region, a factor of brutal destabilization from which nothing can be expected. to think that something will be achieved through an integration with the mafia, with a criminal group that has kidnapped venezuela and keeps venezuela kidnapped is a mistake. it is the same mistake that they have made, that the interim leaders, the interim president and the opposition that he represents have made. that mistake they made and hopefully they won't make again. there is a usurpation by mr. maduro that has to end, and it will not end because of a question of negotiation and that they come together to talk because maduro wants to. maduro will never want to negotiate until he feels the pressure. and the pressure has to be a unanimous pressure of all the democratic forces of the international community so that the usurpation ends and then we start talking about elections, instead of using these fake elections - which has been a farce esperpentice to use these elections - to try to liquidate the previous national assembly. because that's not getting us anywhere. that's giving maduro another card for another ten years of tragedy, misery and hunger.
mr. president, in a surprise, because this never happens, we bring back the issue of venezuela. it is being brought up again by the spanish right and the extreme right, trying once again to make this parliament look ridiculous on the subject. and get the irony about the surprise part, not the rest of it. the only objective of this resolution is to maintain, give oxygen to the corrupt puppet guaidó, while despising the sovereign decisions of the venezuelan people and their democratically elected institutions. and at the same time they are taking the opportunity to try to wear down the spanish government, which, by the way, has allowed this gentleman to have entered spain irregularly and to have had no problem in settling in one of the most expensive neighbourhoods in madrid. sorry, not mr. guaidó, but mr. leopoldo lopez. he is a very good man. a leopoldo lópez who seems destined to be the new president of narnia after we learned, not from pravda or granma, but from the washington post, that guaidó has become a millionaire by stealing the resources of the bolivarian republic of venezuela abroad. mr borrell, you know that the people who have pushed this resolution are the same people who do not consider the spanish government to be legitimate. we thank you, we congratulate you on your little walk. i hope we will go further, to recognize the... (the president withdraws the floor)
on behalf of the left group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr bütikofer for his work and his receptivity to this proposal. we cannot ignore the opportunities for cooperation offered by the strategy between the european union and asia. the pandemic has shown us the importance of coordinated responses and cooperation between countries. this proposal promotes connectivity as a principle that seeks such cooperation. the european union must look to asia not as a systemic rival but to seek ways of systemic cooperation. for this, sovereignty, inclusiveness, human rights, climate action, sustainability -- they have to go through this strategy. but there is another axis that is essential: social justice. we welcome that this strategy includes the objectives of the 2030 agenda and that human rights defenders have been included in its development. digitalisation and improved infrastructure are a driver of development, but they can also lead to increased inequality and a digital economic and social divide. we don't want two-speed connectivity. the connectivity of spatial areas and the need to take account of the needs of people in a sustainable way and not increasing inequality. this proposal is a first step.
mr. president, today biden takes office, after the violent assault on the capitol that leaves behind five dead and a broken democracy, assault encouraged by the still president of the united states, trump to my fierce followers, let's fight! there are still many details to be learned, but we do know the scandalous difference between the actions of the security forces under trump in the face of protests by progressive movements such as black lives matter and the lack of media and collusion in the assault on the capitol. this attack demands the unequivocal condemnation of the international community and its instigator and accomplices. trump has fueled hatred, racism, sexism, denialism to the limit. this isn't about the last hit. it is a political movement, followed by political groups that are here today: in spain, vox, "whitewashed by the popular party"; in italy, salvini; in hungary, orban. it is an expression of the same movement that is trying to attack what we are: coexistence, democracy, rights, freedoms, using hatred and the poisoning of public debate. those who remain silent are and will be guilty as well. today we must value and defend what they want to destroy: the commons. only through social policies and redistributive economies can we defeat the inequality, the uncertainty and the fear that feed these monsters. today, from here, i say to all those who are suffering from fear, uncertainty and feeling marked: not a step back!
madam president, the past four years have been very challenging for transatlantic relations. we have seen tweets replacing official communication between allies. we have seen temperament replacing long—standing policies. now that this has ended, we’re looking forward to working with a us president who respects the freedom of speech. a president who respects the democratic order. an american president who wants an independent and strong judiciary. and let me be clear: one can only defend the rule of law around the globe if one respects and defends the rule of law at home. now is the time for us as allies, the european union and the united states of america, to defend human rights around the globe. the fundamentals of american democracy and of european democracy are the same: respecting existing rules and institutions, respecting the international order and our allies and, first and foremost, respecting our values. challenging these values has only served autocrats in recent years. america has a fresh start. transatlantic relations have a fresh start. we should be looking forward, but we should also learn from the lessons of recent years, and the lesson is clear: fake news and hate policies are dangerous. they lead to violence. that is why we should also tell people here in europe: stay away from extremism, stay away from hate policies, stay away from populism, stay away from lies. they are dangerous. to conclude, i would like to bring up an issue which is important to 30 million eu citizens. today, the citizens of cyprus, croatia, bulgaria and romania still require a visa to enter the united states. let’s work together with the new american administration to ensure full visa reciprocity between the united states and the european union.
president, madam commission president, mr president-in-office of the council, it is well known that president biden and vice-president harris are facing an unlikely task in their own countries to unite their people, strengthen democracy and become a global player we can rely on again. but above all, let today be a day of hope and perspective. hope and prospects, for example, for a global climate policy reset because they will rejoin the paris agreement. but it's going to take more than that. it will require a really ambitious climate policy, like we have with the green deal. the united states is also hoping and looking forward to a renewed involvement in the united nations, the world health organization and the world trade organization. so let us strengthen that partnership, but let us do so from the european union's own strength and not let us be at the mercy of the united states, but let us be equal partners and take our part in the world together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the united states is and will always be the pole star for democracy and freedom in the world. the new american government will always find in us, the league, a serious and reliable ally, united with the atlantic alliance in defence of the values of the free west. today more than ever, we need a strong relaunch of relations between europe and the united states to face together the great challenges of our time. and the first challenge we must overcome together is that of communist china, which represents the greatest threat to our freedom and our democracy. it is scandalous that europe and the italian government of pd and 5stelle are silent accomplices in the misdeeds of the beijing regime. the 5g game and the trade agreement between europe and china, so dear to merkel and macron, are there to prove it. no more ambiguity, no more double standards, no more blood-soaked business with china. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that the chinese dictatorship is waging an economic and a civil war against the western world. we must be prepared, together with our american allies, to defend our freedom and democracy by any means necessary. italians, americans, free men from all over the world will never die slaves to the chinese communist dictatorship.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, of course how much hate, how much phobia, how much fear of trump. he said when he won that it was the end of the world, that fascism was coming, that it would end american democracy, that it would ruin it, that it would be war. there's been no war on the part of the united states, he's the first president not to make one in generations. hate, phobia and fear are bad advisors to assess what has happened. here, trump is accused of storming the capitol. he called for a peaceful demonstration. but biden and harris are not accused of the mass violence, the arson, the looting, the murders throughout 2020 with black lives matter, despite the fact that, to these criminals, when they were arrested, they paid the bail. the censorship that has been here has been silenced. we're really violating all of our principles by appealing to them. he didn't protest with the black lives matter violence. there was no protest over the censorship that has been applied to media that denounced the corruption of the biden family, which has never come to light. we're denying our principles, and we'll pay dearly for it too.
madam president, mr borrell, mr michel, i want to talk about cooperation with the united states in our respective foreign policies. the coordination of those policies will be useful to the free world, because the promotion of democracy and democratic values and practices is important at a time of great polarization between mature democracies and authoritarian liberal systems. that world summit for democracy and a foreseeable common transatlantic agenda, including private actors, are essential. as regards relations with turkey, both the council and the commission have very recently spoken of our coordination with the united states in relation to turkey, but turkey is not a state that is going to be part of the united states. it is a state which wants to be a member of the european union and therefore the nature of our relationship is very different. turkey is not a third country to us. turkey is not a neighbor to us. and turkey's obligations to the european union derive from its status as a candidate country and the demand for democratic reforms. i say this because the council, mr michel, sometimes does not insist too much on democratic conditionality, which is indispensable for this house.
madam president, our high representative, josep borrell, wrote the other day that the latest events in washington should be a wake-up call for the defenders of democracy. but it also referred to the growing inequality. because let's not forget that inequality has effects on the health of democracy and has had them especially after the austerity exit from the last crisis. the american case shows that the emphasis on equal opportunities, while maintaining those economic policies which generate inequality and which we have also followed here in europe, does not result in greater equality or greater social mobility; it generates indignation and even hatred and makes one feel excluded from a political system which many people do not feel represents them, as we saw clearly the other day in the capture of the capitol. and it's that trump is not the source of this outrage, he's the symptom. we will therefore do well to fight together with the new biden administration against inequalities and against misinformation and to defend the promotion of the rule of law and democratic values. and it will also be essential to collaborate on regulation in the digital sphere.
madam president, dear prime minister, dear colleagues, portugal declared a state of emergency and every effort should be made to getting people vaccinated as quickly as possible. as we have seen, the eu is able to cooperate in such an emergency; there is no need for further integration or a superstate. we can work together if we have to. we need more of these good practices. integration is not an objective in itself; it is simply necessary to achieve common goals. abstract ideals do not inspire people; we need tangible results for everybody to see and for everybody to enjoy. if we really want people to make a connection to europe, we have to make it possible for them to connect within europe. transport and tourism need improved cross-border connections, especially high-speed rail connections. ten-t projects need cross-border commitment from eu leaders and member states. let’s make it possible; let’s get to work!
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what is really important to citizens today, wherever they live in the union, is to get back to their pre-pandemic lives. if vaccination is a condition, then you're right to ask when you're going to get the vaccine. it is not possible to explain why we lack vaccine while millions of people outside the union are being vaccinated. this undermines trust in the eu institutions. trust is the key question, mr prime minister, whether the union can give back to its citizens a sense of security in the face of pandemics, economic crises, migration challenges. we therefore expect the portuguese presidency to help ensure that there is enough vaccine stock to implement the historic budget agreement as effectively as possible. restore citizens' confidence that the union can and will protect its external borders, that illegal migration can be stopped and irregular migrants can be returned, and that mandatory immigration quotas are not a solution in any form. the visegrad countries cannot accept this. we expect a guarantee from the portuguese presidency that the rule of law inquiry will not become a tool for blackmail, that there will be no ideological expectations about eu payments. it is unacceptable, madam president, that vice president jourová threatened the hungarian government with withdrawal of funds in her statement yesterday. we expect, mr prime minister, that the portuguese presidency will conclude the article 7 procedure in the council. finally, restore confidence in the european citizens' initiative, because what is the point of collecting more than a million signatures if the commission does not take legislative initiatives to protect traditional national and linguistic minorities? the protection of national minorities is part of the rule of law. if you don't want to deal with this, then jourová's argument that all rule of law is accountable is invalid. the portuguese presidency will have to do more to build confidence. good luck with that.
madam president, welcome to the european parliament, prime minister costa. national recovery plans are beginning to arrive in brussels, but some member states are not willing to make the reforms that europe demands. for example, in spain, in my country, the populist ministers in the government insist that no reforms should be made, and even want to undo the reforms that have already been made. they think the european money will come anyway. the temptation for each country will be to turn a blind eye to the plans of the others: today for you, tomorrow for me. but we cannot allow countries to skip european conditions, mr costa. if we turn a blind eye now, if we do not make reforms, if we do not invest this money well, european money will have been a great waste with serious consequences for europe. that is why europe must be firm. you, mr costa, and you, mrs von der leyen, must demand that european money be spent on european priorities. it is your duty not to approve any plan which does not include the reforms and investments which this parliament, the commission and the council have agreed to. as you said, mr. costa, it's time to deliver.
i would like to draw the attention of the portuguese presidency to the question of the so-called broad investment agreement between the eu and china. the citizens of europe were given the news of this agreement between christmas tree and new year's eve by mrs merkel and mr macron, who, as we all know, are the de facto rulers of this european union. we, the other member states, can follow suit. i would therefore call on portugal, which is also a small member state, to put this scandalous agreement on hold and to put it on hold for the time being. after all, just a few hours after the ostentatious announcement of this agreement, members of parliament and political leaders were arrested in hong kong, on the orders of the chinese regime, in pure tiananmen style. democracy in hong kong is completely decapitated, and what is europe doing? europe is going to bake sweet sandwiches with an investment agreement. this is totally unacceptable to us. our relations with china must be completely reviewed. there needs to be a thorough evaluation, not just of hong kong but also of 5g, the coronavirus, and the not-so-subtle military threat in the south china sea and elsewhere. all this should inspire us here in europe to put an end to all naivety, here and now. it is time we replaced the immediate profit and political marketing of the european union with a sensible long-term strategy.
madam president, mr prime minister, you have made climate the heart of your speech and the european agenda and, not surprisingly, you have not mentioned mercosur, because the free trade agreement on mercosur, because of soybeans, beef, bioethanol, is more than 25% deforestation and therefore contributes massively to climate change. however, mr prime minister, since 2000, the year in which negotiations with mercosur were opened, portugal has deforested 5.5 times its area in the amazon. 5.5 times the size of your country and you know, you were prime minister at the time of the terrible fires that ravaged your country. so, mr prime minister, since you want the agreement to be ratified, how will you justify to your portuguese compatriots the forthcoming forest fires caused by climate change? madam president, when there is a new pandemic caused by deforestation, industrial livestock farming, what will you say to the citizens of europe? when there is a health scandal about pesticides or animal abuse in brazil, when there is a corruption scandal, how will you justify to the europeans that you have signed? so reopen this agreement, you cannot say that today we cannot reopen the agreement with mercosur, at a time when everything is changing.
madam president, prime minister, the cloud of key words that will identify the portuguese semester will be very similar to that which identified the german presidency: next generation eu, digital transition, climate emergency, but also pandemic, confinement, vaccines, economic crisis and unemployment. it is true that the portuguese presidency will open a new stage in the relationship with the united states and will have the opportunity to restore, with president biden, everything that president trump has broken. in this sense, we have full confidence in the ability and the atlantic vision of portugal. but what worries me most is everything that is clouded by the pandemic cloud. i am referring above all to rights and freedoms, certainly in eu countries like spain that have political prisoners and use repression against political dissidents. please mr prime minister, fight to ensure that the pandemic does not make human rights and fundamental rights invisible. can we beat the virus without freedom? covid—19 maybe yes, but the crypto-fascism virus, no.
madam president, mr puigdemont, do not come here and tell lies! you are a fugitive from justice, an enemy of democracy and the rule of law. i am very confident that the portuguese presidency will vigorously defend the rule of law and democracy. president costa, the next six months have to lead us inexorably to the exit from the health crisis. we have the tools, the vaccine, and the will to end this terrible pandemic. the europeans are exhausted. if the german presidency has left us with the vaccine and its access, now the portuguese presidency must put all the necessary resources into it so that within six months the majority of europeans are immunized and vaccinated against the virus. there is no alternative. only from health security can we boost our economies, industries and jobs, affected by the pandemic. and alongside that, there are many challenges for the next semester that cannot be forgotten, such as reorienting fisheries agreements after brexit to protect our fishermen, the migration crisis, or the tourism and hotel crisis after covid. today millions of europeans are concerned not only about when they will get vaccinated, but also about their jobs, their businesses. they wake up every morning not knowing if they're gonna get paid at the end of the month, how long they're gonna be on erte or unemployed. the six months ahead must be those of boosting recovery and hope, with ambitious national reforms to create jobs. we all want the portuguese presidency to succeed, because it will be the success of the european union. but, mr president, i must say that this will hardly be possible if the shadow of doubt about the choice of the portuguese prosecutor in the european public prosecutor's office is not removed. there's no time to lose. today is your chance. the europeans are waiting for you.
madam president, i say to the prime minister: thank you for your clear commitment on the conference on the future of the european union. i know that there are still some problems in the council, but i know your strengths. i think you are maybe the only one who can overcome that in the council, and there is also good reason to do so, that conference, because it’s not because now that trump is out and biden is in that we can do business as usual. we have reacted better to the covid-19 crisis in comparison to the financial crisis – which was a disaster, because it took us 10 years to have the banking union and it’s still not there. there are still weaknesses in the european union. migration is not solved. the problem of our geopolitical weakness in our relationship, for example, to russia: not solved. the rule of law: a number of countries not biding by the rules. i think we need this conference urgently and i count on you, prime minister, to achieve that in the council in the coming weeks if possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you were right to defend the european vaccination strategy. but for the current phase of the pandemic, we need much more than a common vaccination strategy. acute is a highly contagious mutation that spreads across borders. many more people could die if the safeguards and shutdowns continue to be decided at different times and at national level. we now need a binding synchronisation of the corona policy in europe, that is, a common staged plan with as uniform measures as possible at the same incidence levels. top scientists have already made similar suggestions in the contain covid initiative. mrs von der leyen, prime minister costa, please be brave at the eu summit tomorrow. the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to make it more flexible. anything else, with border closures, would cause massive damage. a strong eu plan against corona is the order of the day in the face of the new threat! that is the task of the eu summit tomorrow!
madam president, the german presidency of the council has been a forgettable one. under his mandate a multiannual financial framework has been negotiated for the next seven years, which consists of an unacceptable reduction in the cap to satisfy the green lobby and which is not designed at all to help european companies and workers, who, after our elders, are the worst affected by this pandemic. a financial framework that will blindly allocate billions to the green agenda without paying attention to the reality of our economies, while unemployment and the desperation of the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises rise. a german presidency that has ended with the announcement of a regrettable investment agreement with communist china, a country responsible for this crisis of death and desolation by action or omission. we spaniards have high hopes that the presidency of a sister nation, portugal, will bring some common sense to this drift, strengthen the protection of the mediterranean axis and help to explain that the great diversity of our agricultural and livestock sector does not constitute a threat to the environment, but remains its greatest and best ally. all the luck in the world, president costa.
in writing. the portuguese presidency presented its three main priorities: promoting europe's recovery; implementing the union's social pillar; and strengthening europe's strategic autonomy by keeping it open to the world. the presidency will support the creation of a health eu, which strengthens the capacity to respond to public health crises, to produce and distribute safe vaccines, to ensure a universal, simultaneous, public and free vaccination process. the spanish delegation shares these priorities and calls on the presidency to accelerate the transition to a more sustainable model, taking advantage of new technologies and promoting a fair recovery: investment must contribute to reducing inequalities, the wage gap, unemployment and ensuring decent housing for all. we need to reform economic governance so that the social pillar is as important as economic growth, and suspend tax rules until 2023, taking this time to reform them, introducing, for example, the golden rule for social investment. we must put forward an action plan at the social summit in porto, with measures such as child benefit, unemployment insurance, and the creation of a european health response mechanism to move forward with the european health union.
in writing. the current pandemic has triggered a social and employment crisis, already generating an upward trend in rising unemployment, worsening working conditions, as well as an increase in inequalities and poverty in europe. the recovery plan and the new mff are primarily aimed at mitigating the negative effects of this crisis in all its forms. however, from a social point of view, we need more. we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind. we also need the new financial framework to increase the budget for the esf+, the only instrument designed to alleviate the adverse social effects of this crisis, to implement the pillar of social rights, and to put in place measures which are a priority for socialists, such as the child guarantee. in short, a large budget, which ensures that the social objectives are compulsorily met, and the establishment of concrete and tangible indicators of social investment to be included in the european semester and in the national recovery plans.
in writing. the current pandemic has triggered a social and employment crisis, already generating an upward trend in rising unemployment, worsening working conditions, as well as an increase in inequalities and poverty in europe. the recovery plan and the new mff are primarily aimed at mitigating the negative effects of this crisis in all its forms. however, from a social point of view, we need more. we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind. we also need the new financial framework to increase the budget for the esf+, the only instrument designed to alleviate the adverse social effects of this crisis, to implement the pillar of social rights, and to put in place measures which are a priority for socialists, such as the child guarantee. in short, a large budget, which ensures that the social objectives are compulsorily met, and the establishment of concrete and tangible indicators of social investment to be included in the european semester and in the national recovery plans.
in writing. the current pandemic has triggered a social and employment crisis, already generating an upward trend in rising unemployment, worsening working conditions, as well as an increase in inequalities and poverty in europe. the recovery plan and the new mff are primarily aimed at mitigating the negative effects of this crisis in all its forms. however, from a social point of view, we need more. we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind. we also need the new financial framework to increase the budget for the esf+, the only instrument designed to alleviate the adverse social effects of this crisis, to implement the pillar of social rights, and to put in place measures which are a priority for socialists, such as the child guarantee. in short, a large budget, which ensures that the social objectives are compulsorily met, and the establishment of concrete and tangible indicators of social investment to be included in the european semester and in the national recovery plans.
in writing. the current pandemic has triggered a social and employment crisis, already generating an upward trend in rising unemployment, worsening working conditions, as well as an increase in inequalities and poverty in europe. the recovery plan and the new mff are primarily aimed at mitigating the negative effects of this crisis in all its forms. however, from a social point of view, we need more. we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind. we also need the new financial framework to increase the budget for the esf+, the only instrument designed to alleviate the adverse social effects of this crisis, to implement the pillar of social rights, and to put in place measures which are a priority for socialists, such as the child guarantee. in short, a large budget, which ensures that the social objectives are compulsorily met, and the establishment of concrete and tangible indicators of social investment to be included in the european semester and in the national recovery plans.
in writing. the current pandemic has triggered a social and employment crisis, already generating an upward trend in rising unemployment, worsening working conditions, as well as an increase in inequalities and poverty in europe. the recovery plan and the new mff are primarily aimed at mitigating the negative effects of this crisis in all its forms. however, from a social point of view, we need more. we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind. we also need the new financial framework to increase the budget for the esf+, the only instrument designed to alleviate the adverse social effects of this crisis, to implement the pillar of social rights, and to put in place measures which are a priority for socialists, such as the child guarantee. in short, a large budget, which ensures that the social objectives are compulsorily met, and the establishment of concrete and tangible indicators of social investment to be included in the european semester and in the national recovery plans.
in writing. the current pandemic has triggered a social and employment crisis, already generating an upward trend in rising unemployment, worsening working conditions, as well as an increase in inequalities and poverty in europe. the recovery plan and the new mff are primarily aimed at mitigating the negative effects of this crisis in all its forms. however, from a social point of view, we need more. we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind. we also need the new financial framework to increase the budget for the esf+, the only instrument designed to alleviate the adverse social effects of this crisis, to implement the pillar of social rights, and to put in place measures which are a priority for socialists, such as the child guarantee. in short, a large budget, which ensures that the social objectives are compulsorily met, and the establishment of concrete and tangible indicators of social investment to be included in the european semester and in the national recovery plans.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, kim van sparrentak, on her excellent report and on the collaboration with the other groups. the housing crisis affects all member states and affects us all. the number of people who have difficulty in accessing decent housing is no longer in the thousands, but in the millions in the european union. more and more people live in slums and informal settlements, in unsanitary living conditions. the pandemic has only exacerbated this situation. housing is a fundamental right and one of the basic pillars of the welfare state. it must be excluded from the rules of competition, just as social investment must be excluded from fiscal consolidation policies. we have to be brave and make big changes, to commit once and for all to a universalist approach to housing. the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats has put forward some truly ambitious proposals in the report: the inclusion of housing in economic services of general interest, so that the target group is broadened and access to social housing is extended to the middle classes as well and not just to the most vulnerable; that the housing cost overburden indicator reflects the reality of what families are living and is set at no more than 25% of their disposable income; that the provision of adequate and affordable housing is guaranteed for the bottom three quintiles of society; and that 30% of new housing is affordable for people on medium and low incomes. evictions and homelessness are a violation of human rights. we must firmly support the housing first programme. regulation of the rental market and the real estate sector is also needed, by tackling housing speculation, increasing taxes on large housing holders and the supply of rented housing - especially publicly owned housing - and regulating holiday platforms. finally, the energy renewal wave has to start by rehabilitating the homes of the most disadvantaged groups, and it is up to us as regulators to ensure that electricity suppliers adopt protection schemes to ensure the supply of energy to the most... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. madam president, i would like to highlight some of the points which i think are right in the report which has been drawn up on the strategy for equality in the context of the health crisis. in this strategy we are committed to incorporating a european care pact to increase public services and improve the conditions of those who work there, overcoming the precariousness and social undervaluation to which these people are subject. we also say that teleworking cannot be used as an excuse to continue to dismantle and privatize day care centres or homes for the elderly, and that reconciliation is crucial if we do not want to place more burdens on women and collapse as a society, and if we do not want, in addition, to increase the feminization of poverty. we want measures to reduce the gender gap to be taken without delay. what is the commission waiting for when it comes to the proposal for a directive on wages? and where are the companies, when are they going to take responsibility? we want to see sanctions imposed on companies that do not comply with the rules and to make financial support conditional on compliance with labour legislation and the absence of discriminatory practices. but we also want the commission to monitor cases of backsliding in the protection of women's rights, to have an alarm system and to analyse the links between anti-democratic movements on the far right and disinformation campaigns on women's rights and the istanbul convention. finally, as a powerful gentleman, mr dinero, we have insisted on the incorporation of a gender perspective in recovery funds and plans and in the european budget. if the axes of investment in the future are - as it seems - the digital and ecological transition, we must be there and we cannot be left behind.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i would like to emphasize the constructive attitude that has been shown during the preparation of this report. the result is an ambitious text that demonstrates how covid-19 has only widened gender inequalities that were already unacceptable before the pandemic. this report provides a good analysis of the consequences of covid from a gender perspective and, in addition, makes concrete proposals to reverse, or at least curb, these inequalities. however, we have two things to regret. first, that the report is late. this text was to be used to influence the recovery funds, but its vote comes when the packages and measures are already agreed. the second is that we have lost an opportunity to call for a care pact, a care pact that not only invests in the care sector, but also fosters a transition to a care economy that puts people's well-being and lives at the center of all policies. i am sure we will have occasion to discuss the assistance pact, because it must be the central issue for the union from now on.
madam president, commissioner dalli, the covid crisis, like any other crisis, is having a very uneven impact on people based on the different axes of inequality, very especially the gender one. we know that the worst part of the labour markets is being taken by women who, in addition, we continue to support the majority of all domestic and care work, which has intensified greatly during the lockdowns. so we need a european gender equality strategy to definitely serve to ensure gender mainstreaming in recovery, transformation and resilience plans; in laws, policies and budget; and, above all, to move forward on an assistance pact. let us add to the twin green and digital transitions, which are the backbone of our political action now in europe, a third transition towards a new social organization of care, where it is not naturalised, unrecognised and unpaid for women.
madam president, madam commissioner, since i have come to this parliament there has not been a single sitting in which a matter relating to gender equality has not been debated or voted on. and i wonder whether this saturation may not lead to the devaluation of such an important issue as freedom and equal opportunities, and at the same time foster a false perception that in europe women are victims and therefore in need of special protection. and he didn't. in europe, women are not born victims. we are not born victims, because in europe we enjoy liberal democracy and its regime of freedoms and rights. it is important to point out this european context to understand how lucky we are as women to have been born on this continent and in this time, how privileged we are to live in a space of freedom where each of us can achieve her dreams - the dreams she desires according to her merit and her ability - where each of us can compete on equal terms with anyone. i am grateful to history, to the men and women who worked to build this european project, and also out of respect for the women who still suffer persecution, marginalization and inequality in other parts of the world today, i cannot feel a victim in europe, nor can i feel inferior. and because i don't feel like a victim of anything or inferior to anyone, i don't need to be imposed on for a fee or benefit from positive discrimination. in europe we are not born victims. we must not make women victims of ourselves and we must stand up for equality between men and women, equal opportunities and rights and freedoms.
author. madam president, i will not go into the substance of the debate here, because i understand that it is not important even to those who have promoted it. you have access to the text we have presented. the question of hong kong, which ceased to be a european colony 30 years ago, is being raised here for the umpteenth time. it's just an excuse. in each plenary session there is one to talk about china. this debate reflects the colonial vocation of certain groups who act as if europe were still the metropolis that can impose its decisions on china, and who place their servility to the united states above the interests of european workers and businesses. it does not seem very intelligent to attack and insult the people's republic of china in every plenary session. if we really want to build a multipolar world, we need to strengthen our relations with beijing. because the dangers of the present unilateral model are well known, for example, to the 12 000 airbus workers in europe who may be left on the street by the blackmail of the united states on the european aerospace industry. the new silk road, a project that seems destined to transform how countries relate to each other, offers us an opportunity that we should not underestimate. it is urgent to move from the current model, in which the strongest takes over the resources of others by imposing its law, to one based on mutual benefit and horizontal relations. we welcome the eu-china strategic agreement and hope that, in the face of the outbursts of some here, we can continue to work for a global order based on international law, the fight against climate change, peace and the sovereignty of peoples.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the developments in hong kong must be a wake-up call. the repression of the opposition movement and the structured crackdown on pro-democracy organisations are a massive interference with the fundamental rights of the people of hong kong. the chinese authorities are thus seriously undermining the agreed autonomy of the special administrative region. it is significant that the national security law is being used to arrest undesirable individuals and censor freedom of expression. the european parliament has reaffirmed its position that the actions of the authorities in china and the hong kong administration will not go unobserved. we insist that the national security law, which with its wide-ranging powers massively curtails the fundamental rights of the hong kong constitution, must be repealed. in addition, all unjustly detained opposition members must be immediately released and the charges based on the national security law dropped. in view of the increasing pressure on democratic forces in hong kong, the council must consider targeted sanctions against decision-makers in the hong kong administration as a next step. and we expect that the issues of fundamental rights will also be brought up in the forthcoming agreements with china. because trade is important, yes, but not at any price.
author. – madam president, we stand by the people of hong kong, by the many struggling for democracy, for their fundamental rights and for the right to keep enjoying a high degree of sub-government. it has become crystal clear that china is overly using the national security law as an instrument to suppress dissent and political pluralism. we have witnessed incarcerations, disqualification of lawmakers, pressure of the media and even prosecution abroad. all this in clear violation of the sino-british joint declaration and the basic law. it’s time for the eu to take further actions, for instance, by using the new human rights sanctions regime. and, one last remark. with increasing human rights violations happening in china, rushing to reach an agreement on investments as the council did, might harm our credibility as a global human rights actor. when scrutinising the agreement and voting on it, this parliament cannot ignore the worrying situation of human rights in china.
author. – madam president, let me first of all thank colleagues from all across the political groups for the excellent cooperation on this urgency resolution. article 21 of the eu treaties clearly states that the union’s external action shall be guided by the values and principles on which the union was founded – in particular, democracy, rule of law, the universality of human rights, fundamental freedoms, and respect for human dignity. dear colleagues, the chinese communist party and its collaborators in hong kong continue to strip away the city’s high degree of autonomy and suppress hong kongers’ freedoms, including political rights. they are using the so—called ‘national security law’ as a pretext to destroy hong kong’s democracy and put in jail pro—democratic activists and politicians. these developments are highly worrying. it is no longer sufficient to be concerned. we also have to learn a lesson that pure economic engagement is not a way of supporting democracy and human rights, as we used to think. if the union wants to be a credible actor, and truly engage in value—based foreign policy, we must use our economic position as the leverage to support those who are oppressed, rather than to reward human rights abusers. otherwise, we might become morally co—responsible for these crimes and abuses. to support the people of hong kong, our steps must include: implementing the july 2020 council conclusions on hong kong, including the lifeboat scheme, suspension of extradition treaties and support for civil society; using the magnitsky act to sanction carrie lam and other chinese and hong kong officials; and make it clear to the chinese communist party that this house will take human rights into consideration when asked to endorse the investment agreement and any future agreement with china and other regimes supressing human rights. it is time for the european union to act. it is time to defend freedom. it is time to stand with hong kong.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, good morning, brussels and good morning, hong kong. the hong kong police arrested 53 representatives of the democratic opposition and activists on charges of subversion under the national security law for hong kong, freezing many assets relating to these individuals. this is the latest in a long series of arrests of the democratic opposition and other actions aimed at undermining democratic institutions in hong kong. it’s not just on the streets where censorship is taking place, but over the internet as pro-democracy websites are blocked, further limiting freedom of expression and access to information, which have damaging consequences for both civil liberties and democracy. the unilateral introduction of national security legislation by the government in beijing is an attack on the city of hong kong’s autonomy, rule of law and fundamental freedoms, and degrades the integrity of one country, two systems, which is a breach of china’s commitments and obligations under international law. with my colleague, barry andrews, i would also like to highlight the case of richard o’halloran, an irish citizen and father of four from dublin, who has been refused permission to leave china since march 2019. richard has not been arrested, charged or personally accused of any wrongdoing; he was just unfortunate enough to be caught up in an investigation into another individual, whom he had never met during the period on which to investigation is focused. i would call on the chinese government to allow mr o’halloran to come home as there is no legitimate reason for him to be kept against his will. i also call on the chinese government to listen carefully to what the members of parliament are saying today and to act accordingly. that is in the best interests of everybody and good relations with the european union. good morning and the best of luck to the people of hong kong.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this resolution that we’re debating sends one clear central message: the european parliament will continue to stand with hong kong. we’re underscoring this stance by clearly saying that the eu must act upon our words. we must make use of the newly introduced global human rights sanctions mechanism to sanction those people, including in particular carrie lam, that are violating human rights in hong kong. when we debate the eu—china comprehensive agreement on investment (cai), we will take human rights into account, and i can’t see how the present text suffices to our standards. one last sentence to some panda huggers from id and gue: if you hate your own political system so much that you think you have to find excuses for acting on behalf of a foreign aggressive power, that’s not positive, that’s not progressive, that is despicable.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen of the house, i've been to hong kong twice, when it was part of the people's republic of china, although of course with a lot of autonomy. i would also like to remind you - as this has not been mentioned in previous speeches - that there is a special eu-hong kong friendship group in our parliament. i'm honored to be a member. i think that the special right to criticize what's happening in hong kong is for those politicians, those public figures who have criticized the fact that in the days when hong kong was part of the british empire, the governor was appointed by the british queen. those who didn't do it then, today, to be honest, sound a little hypocritical. i think we need to do something about human rights in hong kong. it's obvious.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, one country, two systems was the commitment china made to the international community when it handed hong kong back in 1997. the agreement was not respected, the word was not fulfilled, but nothing is discovered. this is not the first time that china has deliberately violated the rules it has committed to. this is the case at the wto or the who and it will also be the case tomorrow at the ilo. and yet, european leaders who are so quick to denounce foreign dictatorships look the other way, either because they think china can be trusted blindly - and they are wrong - or because they are cynical and think that the size and wealth of the country justifies this collective amnesia. and that's the case when you sign a backdoor investment agreement. this is not only an economic mistake, it is also a political mistake in view of the situation in hong kong, in view of the fate of the persecuted uyghurs, also in view of the whistleblowers in wuhan who were silenced. so europe must wake up and stop turning a blind eye.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as early as june 30, 2020, the day the infamous national security law was imposed by the beijing authorities, one of the most well-known faces of the former british colony's activists, joshua wong, warned us that this would represent the end of hong kong and the beginning of terror. since then, the situation has only worsened: joshua has been in jail for the umpteenth time since december, along with many other activists, and just a few weeks ago we witnessed the government's arrest of 53 pro-democracy politicians on the basis of the extremely broad and vague provisions of this draconian law. hong kong residents have clearly expressed their peaceful demands for freedom and autonomy but the authorities have always chosen to respond with increasing repression and violence, and the total power asymmetry between beijing and hong kong makes this situation even more complex. my question is, then, how did we forget this issue in the last investment agreement with china? how did we let our commitment become rhetorical? this struggle in hong kong is not just a struggle of the people living there, it is a struggle of all those who believe in democracy and the defence of human rights on a global scale.
madam president, yesterday the vast majority of this european parliament welcomed the arrival of biden in the white house as good news and a window of hope and welcomed the departure of trump, whose denial of cooperation with the european union and multilateralism is surely the context of strategic autonomy, the diplomacy of the european union brought about by the global investment agreement that the european union signs with china in december 2020. but in no way can this context undermine the european union's clear commitment to human rights and its protest against the arbitrary and illegal detention of journalists, students, human rights lawyers and local election candidates, which clearly violates international law, the 1984 sino-british agreement and the special region status for hong kong granted by china in 1997, which guarantees it plurality elections and an independent judiciary. and so this is the moment when the european parliament has to speak up and say that no agreement can justify looking the other way. and that this parliament takes its democratic commitment to human rights very seriously. in china and everywhere.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution shows how much the european parliament has never resigned itself to repression in hong kong and the rest of china. it is also a terrible admission of failure because despite our denunciations, the dictatorship has never been so brutal, violent, cynical in china. and since we are talking about cynicism, how can we accept that angela merkel and emmanuel macron forget the worst dictatorship in the world, forget its denunciations, forget the values of europe to sell cars, private health homes or surveillance systems? ladies and gentlemen, one cannot denounce a political regime and then do business in cynicism. this parliament today must not simply question the investment agreement with china: it must denounce it! this is a mistake of democratic, economic, digital and energy sovereignty of europe. this is, as has been said, a political mistake! so let's suspend all talks, all negotiations with china right now.
madam president, the democracy movement of hong kong has the genuine sympathy and solidarity of the catalans. their fight against authoritarianism for democracy and self-determination is our fight. but the people of hong kong are enduring massive arrests, exile, the criminalisation of fundamental rights like the freedom of assembly and interference in their electoral processes — this is all too familiar to us as well. while beijing crushes democracy in hong kong, what message do they get from the eu? a rushed conclusion to the investment agreement! this sends a very clear message that human rights and violations are perhaps unpleasant, but they are not going to be an obstacle for businesses. the eu must stop sending these mixed messages, just paying lip service to their commitment to democracy and human rights. this parliament must put on hold the eu investment agreement, and this parliament must support the uighur people and declare it a genocide.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to the honourable members of this parliament. the situation in hong kong is deteriorating very fast, as you all rightly pointed out. on 6 january, the authorities conducted mass arrests under the national security law. the 53 arrested stand accused of subversion for participating in the pro—democracy primary elections held in july 2020. the criminalisation of legitimate political activity is aimed at stifling pluralism, pro—democracy voices and the exercise of political and fundamental freedoms in hong kong. the arrests on 14 january of 11 individuals implicated in the attempted escape to taiwan of 12 hong kongers further compounds the impression that the criminal justice system is being deployed to punish dissent. since the imposition of the national security legislation by beijing over hong kong, the eu has conveyed with the great unity its strong concerns publicly in a serious of declarations and directly to the chinese leadership at the summit in june and the leaders’ meeting in september. the leaders’ meeting of december was not only the occasion to conclude negotiations in principle on a comprehensive agreement on investment with china but also to raise concern on hong kong. the eu will continue to stand firm on its values and principles, while pursuing its interests. and the same effort in july, the council adopted an eu response package comprising a mix of measures at eu and national level, such as further scrutinising exports of sensitive equipment, suspending extradition agreements, stepping up scholarships and academic exchanges, further engaging with civil society and observing trials of pro—democracy activists. there is consensus on continuing to apply the measures and to consider additional steps in case of further deterioration. unity and solidarity continue to prevail. we cannot let any member state, any citizen, any member of parliament be singled out with respect to hong kong, xinjiang or more broadly, china. by calling for the release of swedish citizen, gui minhai, the eu will continue to stand firm on protecting its citizens. coordination with like—minded democracies on hong kong and addressing other challenges brought along by china will continue to be a cornerstone of our approach. hong kong remains high on our political agenda and will be discussed at the upcoming foreign affairs council on 25 january.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the house also adopted a resolution on the situation of human rights in turkey, in particular the case of selahattin demirtas and other prisoners of conscience (2021/2506 (rsp)) *. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
author. mr president, despite the judgments of the european court of human rights, demirtaş has been unjustly detained since 2016. since then, dozens of politicians and thousands of hdp members have been arrested or imprisoned. its "legitimately elected" mayors have been removed and replaced by friends of the government. and it seems the strategy is not to stop until we get the hdp crushed. like demirtaş, there are thousands of political prisoners and prisoners in turkey, because erdoğan cares little about human rights or international norms, and it seems that his role as guardian of european borders gives him carte blanche to do whatever he wants. we therefore call for the opposite to be shown: for a strong reaction, for borrell to demand a meeting with the foreign minister to demand the release of all political prisoners and mr demirtaş, for an arms embargo to be approved and for accession negotiations to be frozen until human rights are respected in turkey. in short, let it be shown that violating human rights has consequences.
author. mr president, from here we all, all of us, will remember the need for the release of mr demirtaş and all those political prisoners who are crammed into turkish prisons. but i would also like to remind you that all these complaints we have had about turkey for years - and of course we have been continually dealing with them in the last parliament - have no real answer. we've never been beyond words. it's the same with china. we are here to mourn the crushing of the opposition in china. or it happens with venezuela. we are with that and yet we are not making progress on what needs to be done, on a series of sanctions that restore the credibility of the european union. we have talked a lot about turkey, but no one has suggested 'what must be done, once and for all', the suspension of the accession negotiations, the indefinite suspension of this absurdity we have there, with a dictatorship that is falling deeper and deeper into repression 'as is the case with china'; and yet we make agreements, we make plans and we continue with all exports, as if nothing had happened, until the next whimper.
author. mr president, the hdp was a party closely linked to the kurdish movement in its origins. and yet today it is a party with a broad sociological base in other progressive sectors of turkey. the hdp and demirtaş himself have represented the decision of many pro-kurdish activists to abandon armed violence and to commit to action within the institutions. it is a process which we in spain know very well, because it is at the origin of the democratic victory over the terrorism of eta. however, in turkey this movement is continually accused of being terrorist. we have tried to convince our turkish colleagues that keeping the hdp in the institutions is vital if turkish democracy is to survive as such. it is a party that by its own merits and against all elements as urbán has recalled now has a remarkable popular support. demirtaş's case is special, not only because he is a leader, not only because he was a candidate from prison to the country's president, but also because the european court of human rights has said several times - the last time, a few weeks ago - that there were no grounds for his detention and his stay in prison and that he should be immediately released. these days the turkish leaders and, probably today, the turkish minister here in brussels, want to show us that relations with europe must be resumed, that they want to resume those long-delayed democratic reforms. we don't want any more statements. please, no more love letters from us. these are facts and decisions which demonstrate the sincerity of this 'apparently' renewed european commitment. they are fulfilling their commitments under international law and are releasing demirtaş, who is a good example of the sincerity of this european commitment.
mr president, mr dombrovskis, mrs lagarde, madam president, this weekend you have given a reply to those who want to cancel the debt of the governments held by the ecb. your argument is based on the illegality of this measure, and you're right. but i think the legal argument is weak, because if debt cancellation made economic sense, then i would be the first to call for a change in the legal framework. but it's not. it seemed to me more important to point out the lack of economic interest in cancelling the debt. debt cancellation is a zero-sum game of accounting because our states are co-owners of the ecb, but it is a small game with significant costs: costs for the effectiveness of monetary policy, a cost for the credibility of the ecb, a cost for the financing of states in the long run. the very fact of opening this debate gives wings to the hawks of monetary policy, while we are all here in full support of the decisions you have made during the pandemic. i take this opportunity to renew our support.
in writing. – the current covid-19 crisis has highlighted our external dependency and lack of open strategic autonomy in relation to resources and value-chains. this has caused our industry and smes to suffer an unprecedented impact. transitioning towards a circular economy will bring new economic opportunities. for this to happen, we need a functioning market for high-quality recycling with a level playing field for recycled materials, better waste management systems and a science-based binding 2030 eu-level target for reducing the materials and consumption footprints, based on agreed indicators. consequently, the eu must diversify its supply, and reduce its dependency, including by researching and developing alternative materials and efficient recycling processes, such as chemical recycling. sustainable products need to become the norm on the eu market. improving our circular economy will stimulate economic growth, create job opportunities, will help to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 by reducing co2 emissions, whilst at the same time not overusing the planet’s resources.
madam president, almost 75% of the victims of trafficking are women and girls trafficked for sexual exploitation, although we also talk about slavery on farms, domestic servitude, forced marriages, begging and forced crime. many of these victims are trapped in hell because they have no legal and safe migration routes. the far right in this house wants to condemn them to that hell for all eternity, by closing the borders to those who flee slavery, even if they are minors, and by criminalizing the work of ngos. their heaven is the exclusive club of a few wealthy people. the same right that sanctifies the family is here opposed to the right of family reunification of those who flee. they call themselves christians, but they're not. finally, trafficking exists because there is a demand that makes it profitable. the delightful need to exploit another's body, to force it for the use and enjoyment of one's own. my body is mine and yours is yours. condemn without palliation the pimps, the traders in human flesh, the exploiters, the slave-owners, the consumers, the accomplices and the cover-ups. we want this directive to be fully implemented so that it is they and not their victims who are burning in hell.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner nicolas schmit, all of us and all institutions agree on the importance of improving our skills and competences for our economies to move forward in competitiveness, resilience and social justice, and for a successful transition to a green and digital economy. but the skills, are they what we need? who defines it? how and who accesses them? are we all equally willing to access them? normally, when we approach the debate on competences, we think that they are neutral and accessible to everyone and that achieving them or not depends only on our merits and efforts. but is it really just an individual's responsibility? i think not, that we do not have to individualise responsibility for these processes, nor do we need them to be neutral. for example, skills are not independent of gender or ethnic stereotypes and therefore neither are opportunities to acquire them throughout our lives. and to individually hold each person accountable for the skills they are able to acquire is unfair, because we don't all have the same opportunities, especially given the educational inequalities that we've come to the labor market with and that have increased, in addition, with the pandemic. we must therefore, from the public institutions and from the european parliament, try to ensure that the processes of qualification and retraining are accessible to all people, with particular attention to people from the most vulnerable groups, areas with higher levels of unemployment or rural and isolated areas. these processes should be free of stereotypes because we need all the talents to make europe move forward in a more innovative and fair way. the learning process should be remunerated so that people from disadvantaged backgrounds do not play at a disadvantage. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the issue of the right of asylum with the european parliament.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the european skills agenda cannot simply facilitate the transition to expanding sectors and jobs. it is not a question of responding to the needs of a changing labour market which swallows up workers at will, makes training paths more precarious and reinforces the instability of labour markets. we have to think seriously about the kind of professionals we want, not just the markets we have. the agenda has to empower those who need it most, thinking about them and eliminating the class, race and gender biases that perpetuate inequality, and not just to do justice, but because to be competitive you have to have all the talents and capabilities possible. we know that diversity is cost effective, and this proposal therefore involves not only the public authorities but also companies: employers must improve the skills of their workers, avoiding the preference for the usual ones, providing training opportunities and contributing to their training. it is clear that we must continue to strive for the good of all.
the committee on petitions has already adopted a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the committee on petitions we have worked on this report by studying the situation of many european citizens who are demanding answers from us in the face of the poverty and precariousness they suffer in their workplaces. the workers, mostly women and young people, number about 20 million in the european union and are the perpetual victims of legislative systems which permit and even, in some cases, encourage precariousness and underemployment. and we know that the effects of covid-19 will increase these numbers of people who are working but living in poverty. it is therefore urgent to work with the member states and with the trade unions and employers as well to promote the changes in the labour market which are relevant to curbing this impoverishment. we need a european minimum wage, mr schmit. we cannot accept that there are first or second class citizens depending on the area in which they live, as there are some countries where the minimum wage barely exceeds 300 euros. we therefore need a minimum wage that guarantees fairness and dignity in employment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must decide which model of society we want: one that privileges efficiency and competitiveness over social justice or one that puts people first. what has made us move towards the welfare state is not the exploitation of workers and the privatization of public services. our european union is the superlative example of a social market economy, where competitiveness is achieved while improving the living conditions of citizens. and this is done with models that are committed to public intervention and investment, protection of labour rights, decent wages, collective bargaining, progressive tax policy and the fight against tax fraud. the european union is the melting pot of fundamental rights. some will say: 'yes, but they also hinder economic competitiveness'. i say to them: "is it possible to live a life without dignity, without social justice?" let us choose the right model, because if we do not, then as inequalities and poverty continue to grow, it will be politics that will have become inefficient.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, mrs gabriel, covid-19 has caused youth unemployment rates to skyrocket in europe. according to eurostat, spain has over 40% youth unemployment, italy is close to 30% and france and portugal are above 20%. the phenomenon of youth unemployment also extends beyond the under-25s who are included in the statistics. this high rate of youth unemployment, together with the temporary nature of the work and the poor working conditions, has led to structural precariousness among young people, which also affects their physical and mental health. without the capacity for emancipation, the young people of europe have seen all their vital projects cut short. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the minimum wage is not exceeded, and that the minimum wage is not exceeded.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr dombrovskis, madam president-in-office of the council, today we are approving the rules for the recovery fund which will enable our countries to rebuild their economies after the hard blow of this pandemic, a blow which is being particularly hard on businesses and entrepreneurs, on small businesses in particular. if we do not remedy their desperate situation, we shall see a huge wave of insolvencies that will sweep away our productive fabric and make many families suffer. what can we do? the regulation we are adopting today calls for reforms and investments. the solvency problems of smes and the selfemployed also require reforms and investments. although it would be the easiest thing, investments should not be limited to projects designed for large companies: states must ensure that smes and the selfemployed are also going to benefit from european money, and this requires one thing to start with. it requires, at the very least, that they receive all the necessary information; right now they are in the darkest of darkness. as far as reforms are concerned, in europe we have been calling for years for a second chance for small businesses and insolvent people. we cannot condemn a small businessman to civilian death because his debts have become unbearable. unfortunately, our insolvency systems make it very difficult, almost impossible, for smes to get rid of these burdens. what changes are needed? firstly, mr dombrovskis, the european commission must demand that countries enable entrepreneurs to get out of debt quickly and fairly and start afresh. secondly, the state must write off its debts: state credits, social security credits and taxes. we cannot allow this crisis to ruin those who have had to close their businesses to save the lives of their fellow citizens.
mr president, the largest mobilization of funds ever made available to the member states by the european union needs to go hand in hand with the protection of financial interests during its implementation. parliament has ensured that this mechanism also meets this requirement. the rule of law is a condition for access to funding. a mechanism of accountability and parliamentary control has been introduced with a specific discharge procedure. member states should ensure effective internal controls capable of recovering amounts unduly paid or used. in addition, full transparency is ensured, the final recipients of funding are made known, and we must not forget the continuing work of the court of auditors, olaf and the new european public prosecutor's office, so that it makes no sense to use lack of control as an excuse for not supporting the action of governments with their national plans. it is time to be constructive, to work together, governments and opposition parties, because if you support governments in this, you are not saving the government, you are thinking of the citizens and of the reconstruction of europe, as we have done in parliament. congratulations to the rapporteurs on a great job.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, the facility for recovery and resilience is a major lever to help member states deal with the crisis, to promote european recovery in a dynamic of solidarity. today we are adopting the rules for financing the national plans. we voted in parliament in december for a regulation to protect the union's budget and the recovery plan in the event of a widespread failure of the rule of law. the rule is simple: no european funds if a state does not respect the fundamental principles of democracy, independence, justice or freedom of the media. this is a major step forward for europe, which is protecting its values. it is essential that this rule should apply without delay. can the commission confirm that it is doing its utmost to ensure the application of the regulation as adopted by parliament and the council, despite the council's statement obtained by the countries most concerned and without responding to the pressure still exerted by these same countries? respect for the rule of law is no longer negotiable. as guardian of the treaties, we expect the commission to ensure the implementation of a major achievement of european integration.
mr president, mr commissioner, covid-19 continues to claim thousands of lives every day, and europeans are seeing their businesses shut down, losing their jobs and living in uncertainty that needs a swift and effective response. that answer is what we're voting on today: the recovery and resilience mechanism. european funds offer a chance for the future to our young people, in the face of anti-european speeches which speak of the end of a model. it's an unprecedented economic injection to create millions of jobs, reactivate our productive fabric and strengthen our health systems. it is the answer to building a more competitive europe that is committed to sustainable growth and digitalisation and that supports its self-employed and its smes. these funds belong to europeans, to all spaniards. they are not owned by any government or ideology. we will not allow populist governments to use them to waste money unchecked, creating client networks and awarding them at will. these funds are intended to create jobs, jobs and more jobs, and therefore they must be distributed according to transparent criteria, pursuing territorial and social cohesion, involving all the autonomous communities, all the municipalities, the economic sectors and the national parliament in the process. that is why parliament today rightly approves the requirement for national reform plans to be drawn up every two months. we will be watching to see that the funds reach all europeans, the real europe. we will be watching to ensure that not a single euro is wasted.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the judgment of the polish constitutional court, a body lacking in legitimacy and independence, must be framed in the parallel agenda of the far-right governments and the conservative groups that support them, whose aim is to undermine the achievements made in the field of gender. and these anti-gender campaigns, let's not fool ourselves, are not just national trends or isolated occurrences, but are part of a transnational organization with common strategies and patterns. the criminalization of abortion is a violation of the right to life because it condemns women to clandestine and unsafe abortions and the right to health and medical care, to equality and non-discrimination, to personal security, to reproductive autonomy, to privacy, to information about their reproductive health, including sexual education, to decide the number of children and the interval between births, to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress, and to religious freedom and freedom of conscience, when an apostolate is unashamedly carried out by the institutions. it is also a violation of the right of women, like all other human beings, to be free from cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. when abortion is banned, the state becomes a real institutional aggressor that subjects our bodies, our sexuality and our reproductive capacity to its control. poland has powers in health matters, of course, but no state which is a member of the council can have powers to violate human rights or to attack the rule of law. polish women have taken to the streets and resisted. we're with them. we are not slaves to any government and we will not back down one step.
madam president, commissioner dalli, throughout history and in all cultures there have always been women who, for various reasons, have decided to terminate their pregnancies. making this illegal does not reduce abortions, it only puts women's lives at risk or pushes them to go to other countries, as was the case in my own country when it was not a democracy with those who had the means and were going to london to have an abortion. now many, many polish women are also forced to leave their country in order to terminate their pregnancies with guarantees for their lives. how many times will women and men in poland have to go out into the streets and tell their own government and constitutional court that they admit that they are legislating against women, against citizenship, against democracy and against european values? because we must never forget that women's rights are human rights. parliament and my group will continue to support polish women with initiatives to finance their democratic activism and to ensure that europe pays for health services outside poland's borders. you're not alone, we're with you.
in writing. the constitutional court of poland, in october 2020, had ruled that abortion for severe fetal malformations (such as disease or disability) was unconstitutional, thus significantly restricting the options for voluntary termination of pregnancy in the aforementioned country. the effectiveness of the above-mentioned sentence had been suspended after the numerous demonstrations that took place in the country at that time, although, at the end of last january 2021, the said sentence has been confirmed. since the coming to power of the ultra-conservative law and justice (pis) party in poland, a series of judicial reforms have been developed, including the composition of the high court itself, aimed at eradicating judicial independence and the separation of powers, thus moving away from the common values of the european union in respecting equality and the rights and freedoms of all. poland thus becomes the only eu member state to have fallen back in access to abortion in recent history.
madam president, mr borrell, we are talking a lot about mr borrell and less about russia, which is something that is surely pleasing to the kremlin, as we will be able to read tonight in the pro-putin media. the same smile with which they received the gift of the letter calling for mr borrell's resignation, which is in itself a success for putin and which should make his promoters think. when the sage points to the moon, some look at the finger. let's look at the moon! the inconvenient thing is to go to moscow to defend our values and mr navalni. the easy thing is to tweet from the couch at home or write a letter. we want mature european diplomacy that uses the language of power and we are amazed when we exercise it with all the consequences. also with uncomfortable consequences, as in this case. the gestures have been of aggression towards europe and, instead of starting to think about our response, we waste a few days in fuelling a division which, i repeat, only benefits russia. when the european union was challenged by astrazeneca, we joined the commission and made a show of unity and strength. would it have been helpful to ask for mr dombrovskis' resignation in the face of such a threat? i don't think he is. it would have been easy, but unfair. we have closed ranks because the problem was created by someone else, a pharmaceutical company and not the commission, and because we decided not to give anyone an image of disunity to which we socialists are in no way going to contribute.
madam president, mr borrell, first a message to all those who have been making grotesque and ridiculous comparisons here between mr navalni, a persecuted dissident, a persecuted oppositionist, and a series of criminals, thieves, coup plotters, who in spain have been convicted and are currently campaigning for the elections. those in russia would have been shot by coup plotters, they would have been shot or they would have been put in jail and then poisoned, so let's not compare what is not comparable. mr. borrell, you're the one who goes to get wool and comes back in a rag. it went to moscow to calm the waters, to get along with them, to seek some formulas of understanding despite the latest kremlin barbarities, despite navalni, despite jailing navalni, despite poisoning navalni, despite arresting and systematically beating in hundreds of cities where these demonstrations are now taking place. he went there, let's remember, as he went to iran: he went to iran after 1,500 dead; 1,500 dead and went to rest, too. now you have done very badly here: mr borrell, you have failed utterly.
madam president, it seems like myanmar has gone back 15 years through a time machine, back to when václav havel was calling for the international community to keep the pressure on the military junta to free the democratic opposition leaders and hand over power. many fear that the past decade was all for nothing. the people of myanmar want democracy. we have seen the images of tens of thousands rallying around the country to protest against the coup. we in europe stand with them. but this cannot be just with words. we need action. those responsible for the coup must be sanctioned. those responsible for the crimes against the rohingya must be brought to justice, and what must be crystal clear from the debate today is that the european union will not be silent.
madam president, i join the unanimous condemnation of the coup d'état in myanmar and i call on the european union not to contribute with its trade policy to supporting and legitimising the systematic violation of fundamental rights. the commission should immediately review the application of the generalized system of preferences and suspend imports of rice from myanmar into the european union. many of you will find it anecdotal that i ask this and it will also seem superficial, but i assure you it is not at all. our rice farmers are ruined because the european union, despite the safeguard clause that is in force, continues to import rice from cambodia and myanmar in large quantities, looking the other way when there are problems with human rights or customs controls. if the commission does not react to these situations at trade level, let them not think of asking our farmers to place blind faith in the green pact and in so much empty talk. if one of the goals is to look at sustainability, i ask: which is more sustainable, rice imported from myanmar or rice produced in the european union? and i think the answer is obvious.
madam president, we want to express our own concern about the last events in myanmar, with special attention to the situation of ethnic and religious minorities, as well as ethnic armed groups and ethnic political parties in the sub—states of myanmar, such as shan, karen, chin, rakhine, kachin, mon, and karenni. we condemn and oppose this coup and call on the international community to act in accordance, and not to allow a return of military rule in myanmar. we call on the tatmadaw of the republic of the union of myanmar to show restraint, to release all the arrested individuals and facilitate confidence-building measures, as well as to respect the nationwide ceasefire agreement. once again, it is time to affirm that the will of the people must be respected and, therefore, we urge the military and the ethnic armed organisations to seek a solution through peaceful and inclusive discussions and negotiations.
madam president, mr borrell, we have spoken in the debate on russia of realpolitik and the language of power. we must be aware that, for the time being, while we await the results of the sanctions system for human rights violations, one of the instruments we have to manage ourselves in international politics is trade. i think that to put pressure on the coup plotters we must use the whole panoply of tools that we have in our toolbox. i would ask you to also discuss with the commission the appropriateness of using the generalized system of preferences. and i must say that i share your concern that we might use it in an insensitive or unbalanced way. but that clause was introduced into european law precisely for cases like this. so we have to find a system where the commission can find a formula to put pressure on the military who have seized power and at the same time, in a parallel or accidental way, also bring about an improvement in the system of trade and rice production within the european union. because, as has been said, the massive import of rice from myanmar has caused a drop in european rice, which was 60% a few years ago and is now 30%. i therefore ask you, understanding your reluctance to use it, not to be blocked by the commission, as the resolution attached to this debate this afternoon will also tell you.
madam president, madam president of the commission, i would like to begin by acknowledging the efforts which the commission has made and continues to make to ensure the supply of vaccines in all the member states. however, it is clear that many things have not been done well, for example, the lack of transparency in contracts with pharmaceutical companies and even in the data obtained from clinical trials. in the last few months we have seen how important solidarity and empathy are in overcoming this crisis, and that is that no one is safe until we are all safe. so the inequalities that exist in access to vaccines on the planet are not just a health issue, they're also an economic, moral and human rights issue. while 39 million doses have been administered in rich countries, only 25 - i repeat, only 25 - have been administered in poor countries. we must do everything possible to increase production and open intellectual property rights to meet a need that is global; only then will we achieve a more just and equal post-covid-19 world. the greens/efa group therefore advocates a large-scale reinvestment in both covax and existing pharmaceutical production, and we support a temporary exemption from intellectual property barriers under wto rules.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission president continues to sell this disaster, for which she is centrally responsible, as a vaccine strategy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this failure has had hard and concrete consequences: millions of citizens are more concerned than ever about their health and their economic existence. vaccination is the key to ending the pandemic, as all policy makers are convinced. so they are of crucial importance. but there is a massive shortage of vaccines in the eu. there's not enough here for even the most vulnerable groups. others, however - i'll just mention israel, the us and the uk - are making considerable progress in vaccinating their populations. these countries have provided vaccines early, responsibly and successfully. a happiness that was denied to the citizens of the eu. the eu, on the other hand, has failed once again: the brussels eurocrats ordered too little, too late and completely inadequate. they could not even get the cheapest and supposedly weakest vaccine, which is not even approved in switzerland, while the apparently highly effective russian vaccine was excluded from the outset - probably out of pure political aversion. no wonder you, madame von der leyen, are now looking with envy on britain. the british government has done its duty, ordered and paid for the vaccines on time, and has proved its worth without the eu. we remember: the eu used the good friday agreement for years to put pressure on the british side in the brexit negotiations. now she did not hesitate to break it for her own benefit. it was only public pressure that led them to allow vaccine exports through northern ireland to continue at all. this is a bankruptcy filing. the hastily issued export ban is nothing more than a futile attempt to cover up its own total failure. the european commission, let's be honest, never had a strategy. and she still doesn't have it. mrs von der leyen, as german minister of defence, you sent soldiers with broomsticks to manoeuvre. even then, they didn't have the decency to draw personal conclusions. the consequences of its inability to act are becoming more and more fatal from brussels: it is costing lives. it is destroying the economic livelihoods of millions of citizens on a large scale - due to vaccine shortages. stop blaming everyone else for this. you have to take responsibility. do europe and yourself a favor: you're gonna have to back off. it's too late. mrs von der leyen apparently preferred to leave the sitting a minute before i spoke because she had to expect that i would say this.
madam president, madam president of the commission, first of all, congratulations on the publication of a third contract. however, at the risk of repeating myself, i would not call it transparency when essential clauses are blacked out. why not respond to the formal request for access to all contracts submitted by the greens - in accordance with the treaties? that would put you on the side of the citizens. there is so much uncertainty and criticism of the union on such an important issue that i cannot understand why you are - for the moment - on the side of industry. what about the clauses of the contracts, exactly? does the commission and the council have such confidence in the pharmaceutical industry that they have not considered it useful to set specific production capacity increase targets? what about including the most vulnerable in clinical trials? these are all legitimate questions, and it is clear that the industry is playing a contract game that has nothing to do with the public interest. i am convinced that the union has done its best, but i would like to be able to prove this to the citizens, and that requires transparency.
president, mrs von der leyen, in your state of the union speech you called for a european union of health. the common procurement of vaccines was to be the first test and was to be carried out in solidarity, only through the eu. you sounded confident about that. member states waited while countries like israel, the us and the uk bought in. the eu made no progress and three months were lost. vaccination programs are now being delayed everywhere, causing more deaths. you are politically responsible for that. i worked for the commission for seven years. the commission is a policy maker, not a deal maker in the free market of medicines. then you ordered an export ban, creating a hard border between ireland and northern ireland. very stupid, as you said yourself. you, as chairman, blame other commissioners. very weak. i did not vote for you because i was familiar with your work as minister of defence in germany, where similar problems arose in terms of procurement and lack of collegiality. in short: you have failed. you're politically responsible. i therefore ask you to resign as president of the european commission.
madam president, madam commissioner, unfortunately, since our last debate, the situation with regard to vaccination has not improved. we had a chance to read three vaccine purchase agreements, but what we read from them was rather disturbing, and i'll be specific. thanks to a poorly written contract with astrazeneca, we're just being "good day" to this company. how is it possible that the commission has concluded contracts which do not contain any sanction mechanism for producers who do not comply with their obligations? in a normal state, the government would bear political responsibility for this fiasco. and i ask, who brings her here? the commission president is acting as if nothing had happened. but that's not the only contract flaw. we know from the curevac and sanofi agreements that the agreements often prohibit exports of surplus vaccines to third countries, even in the case of donations for humanitarian reasons. and the eu is planning to give its surpluses to poorer countries, we've heard it here, we have to help developing countries and so on. how do you want to do that? you're breaking contracts with these companies? all right, i applaud you. but then you break the patent treaty, you save hundreds of thousands of lives.
madam president, the third wave of the pandemic is also on the horizon in greece, with workplaces, transport and schools unprotected and the public health system stripped bare. we are now demanding protection measures and a real inspection of private structures without compensation and their incorporation into the state plan. the european union and governments were denied the vaccine needed to keep the public health system and primary care in a miserable state and to accelerate commercialization to enrich clinicians, multiply public-private partnerships and the people pay high prices. a situation that is undermining mass vaccination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union's intervention is based on the profits of the groups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. against the exploitative system, we demand the supply of vaccines from any approved source, as well as all medicines that can help to combat the disease.
madam president, it's been one year since the covid-19 crisis began. from the outset, the european institutions were clear that we had to do whatever was necessary to deal with it, but we had to do it together. it was imperative that we move away from health nationalisms if we wanted to win this battle against the virus in the shortest possible time. the commission, with the support of parliament, has therefore been right to lead the strategy to accelerate the research, manufacture and deployment of safe and effective vaccines, with the public and private sectors working together. it also succeeded in setting up a centralised purchasing system with equal and equitable access for all europeans. and in european solidarity, by participating in covax to support developing countries, to win this fight all over the planet. now we have to get it right and meet the target of 70% of europeans being vaccinated and immunised by the end of the summer. and so we have to get ahead of the future. we need full transparency and full compliance with contracts from the pharmaceutical industry. we must monitor the supply chain and ensure that all pharmaceutical industry in europe with the capacity to produce vaccines and their supplements also ramp up production. we need to use vaccines more efficiently, and i'm talking about doses. we also need to fund ongoing research against the virus variants. and increase mass testing to curb these new outbreaks, also at our borders. to protect our freedoms we must improve and harmonise the processes and for this reason we must also require each member state to have transparent national vaccination plans, mass vaccination infrastructures, contingency plans and to comply with the transmission of data to the european centre for disease prevention and control. we will achieve this together, with transparency and in a constructive spirit.
madam president, madam commissioner, the european commission's vaccine procurement strategy has not met our expectations; our fellow citizens are disappointed and have reason to be disappointed: the slowness is desperate. those of us who have looked at the contracts have been shocked to learn that the pharmaceutical companies do not commit themselves to a fixed number of deliveries but promise to do their best. the commission has given too much importance to price and pharmaceutical liability, madam commissioner, and has acted in fear of anti-vaccine products. the commission has negotiated hard, but with the wrong objectives. cheap is expensive, commissioner. the emphasis on price and responsibility is a grave mistake. the enormous loss of life and jobs is far greater than the few billions spent. commissioner, there is only one priority: vaccinate a lot and vaccinate quickly, not just europe, but all the countries of the world. covax does not have enough resources, they are missing 27 billion euros. the world will not be free of the virus until all countries are. the time to invest is now.
president, madam president of the commission, i am a belgian and i am therefore particularly relieved that today, thanks to the european approach and your approach, we in belgium have proportionately as many vaccines as, for example, in germany, on the same conditions and at the same price. we couldn't have done that on our own. this does not mean, however, that things cannot and should not be improved. if the contracts had been legally better and above all more transparent from the beginning of the negotiations, we could have avoided a lot of misery. i therefore think it is a bad thing that this lack of legal power is now being used as a reason for the export measures. that's putting energy into the wrong measure. if we're not careful, canada and the united states will soon be the ones that make us produce less vaccines instead of more. in addition, china and russia are also already distributing their vaccines to the rest of the world. we cannot continue to refer to covax. we need to take more responsibility in the world. we may not have a surplus of vaccines, but we can get the rest of the world to start producing them. why don't we support south africa to produce its own food? we cannot say that all the vaccines in europe are ours and that the patents are ours and that we should stay away from them. i find that unacceptable. we need a different approach.
madam chair, madam commissioner, you mentioned that vaccination is a marathon and that we are just getting started. yes, we are in a race, a race against time, a race to save lives, and we are definitely not winning. i give a big plus for joint vaccine purchases, but i give a minus three minus five for communication, for transparency and for speed. moderna arrives in the czech republic a week later and in half the dosage as agreed that's the title of the article the czechs read yesterday. another one of many. little wonder that frustration and disillusionment are mounting. and yet europe is the world's largest producer of vaccines. three quarters of the vaccines produced annually in the world come from europe. so please, let's start sprinting, let's keep our production lines busy fighting the covid-19. we have to win this race.
madam president, madam minister, madam president, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! the pandemic has stopped the world. member states have taken a joint decision on joint purchases. this task has been entrusted to the european commission, madam president. and how was this joint vaccine procurement task accomplished? in the first phase, the eu allocated funds for the development of vaccines. the next phase was to make deals with pharmaceutical companies. and that's where the problems started. it turned out that the commission had entered into the contracts too late. secondly, the contracts concluded did not guarantee security of supply. and today the president of the commission is saying that we are going to set up a joint committee of parliament and the commission and everything will be fine, and long live europe. of course, may europe live. but, madam president, you have to at least learn from your mistakes. we're in the third, fourth wave of a pandemic. we need to have a coherent, clear system for ordering vaccines and distributing them so that we don't have a health catastrophe.
madam president, as antonio guterres said, the vaccine is a success for science, a failure for solidarity. the monopoly created has generated inequality and a huge global imbalance. what was, a few months ago, the greatest hope of the european union is rapidly turning into the greatest fiasco. there was an unprecedented effort to get resources and science responded. all of that is true, but where are your words, from april 2020, that covid vaccines would be our universal commons, ms. von der leyen? citizens understand the investment in vaccines, but they don't understand how vaccine ownership is completely private. they don't understand how the pace of production is totally run by the pharmaceutical companies, how all the responsibilities are public and all the profits are private. none of this is new. the lack of transparency, the need to release the patent, were discussed from the ground up and the commission ignored it. more than 2 million people have died from covid, and there will be more than can fit into the statistics. we pay to save lives, not to make a profit, madam president.
madam president, madam minister, madam president, i have to go. the good decision to have a common vaccine strategy for the 27 member states was unfortunately overshadowed by the mistakes and omissions of the european commission. as a result, the vaccination rate per 100 citizens is one of the lowest in the world, clearly ahead of countries like israel, the united kingdom, and the united states. i'm only three lines short. how is it that the commission has supported the pharmaceutical companies with over 3 billion euros and has no access to vaccines like third countries that have not supported such research? how is it possible that the president of the commission ensures that contracts are firmly set for delivery of certain quantities and on certain dates, and yet, when these are not respected, and this is blatant, there is no reaction from the european commission? madam president, without a significant increase in vaccine production and without accelerating delivery, the eu's strategy of vaccinating 70% of its citizens by the end of the summer will be in tatters. at this rate, we'll only have vaccinated 15% of europeans by then.
madam president, madam president of the commission, we socialists support this vaccine strategy because it is on the path of equality and european solidarity, with lofty objectives: to get the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. that is why we demand transparency, for good enforcement. it strengthens democracy. criticism of the mistakes made is not criticism of the union. don't be fooled by that. we defend our institutions. we consider vaccines to be a common good. science has achieved a milestone that less than a year ago seemed impossible. we've supported the pharmaceutical industry, which is crucial to fighting this pandemic. now we demand compliance to regain trust. we welcome the agreements to increase production. but, madam president, do whatever it takes to get around the supply bottleneck. at the moment, the release of licences may delay our objectives, but if the industry is not able to do so, we must reserve that option. ladies and gentlemen, let us also make it clear that the eu's mailboxes do not accept vaccine propaganda. welcome to all those approved by the ema. citizenship is exhausted; restrictions, family and friends in hospitals, the sanitarians fighting a titanic battle... this strategy is our hope. a historic challenge. i am sure it will shape the future of europe. let's do this together.
madam president, we had some frank exchanges of views earlier, so i think it’s time for conclusions and not for being too angry. and the conclusions could be actually summed up by ‘what did you learn in school today?’ ‘what did you learn in the eu today, dear commission of mine?’ one, we needed to have had the parliament with us from the very beginning, and the contact group is a very good step in that direction. two, when we spend the amount of money we are now going to spend, we need an open-source approach. and when linux started to do open source, the big companies came against, among other persons, my son. and then today they have learned that open source was something which was actually in their interest also and in the interest of mankind. third, we need a european law on transparency, and when this comes from the commission, i will say: ‘yes, we did it’.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, it is true that those who do not make mistakes do not make them, but those who make mistakes and then make them must take responsibility for them. this is all the more so when it comes to the health of hundreds of millions of citizens. we say this with the clear conscience of those who firmly believed that at least on vaccines the union would have been able to show its added value, avoiding a race to higher prices and hoarding of doses by the member states. the commission has made two crucial mistakes: the european parliament has signed unclear contracts with pharmaceutical companies and waited too long to sign them, thereby overtaking itself and demonstrating, once again, its geopolitical weakness. now we are in the midst of a contradiction: on the one hand, you're trying to make up for this clumsy way of doing things with some sort of vaccine sovereignty, and on the other hand, you keep saying that we need to distribute vaccines to half the world outside our borders. meanwhile, however, the target of 70% of the european population vaccinated by the summer seems to have become a utopia. president von der leyen, you have made a political bet on vaccines and you are not winning it yet. this should make you think. instead of demanding more health expertise, the union should start doing a few things well, but really important things.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, to you, madam president of the commission, thank you very much for your honest analysis of where we are right now in the fight against the pandemic and what the next steps are that we need to take now. last year, there was a lot of excitement at the end of the year. in record time, we have succeeded in producing not just one, but several vaccines. but as far as mass production is concerned, the reality has hit us in the last few weeks, because vaccines are not as easy to make and bottle as mineral water or beer. the manufacture and transport of millions of vaccines is a highly complex process, a highly complex undertaking, and production capacity naturally depends on many different factors, including external factors. it has been raised. i think the fight against covid-19 is far from over, and we need to focus on what we can do next. i think it's right. madam president, you've made it clear that we have to fight the mutants, that's very, very central. and i think it's also very important that we develop a treatment strategy, that we think about how we can better support the disease course, the severe disease course of covid-19 patients with drugs. i ask the commission to draw up a strategy on this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, vaccines are made up of 300 to 400 different ingredients. however, the high demand for vaccines has led to a shortage of these ingredients. how has the commission prepared for this before the production of vaccines started? this is not a new phenomenon. it was already clear before the coronavirus pandemic that the security of supply of ingredients for vaccines and medicines is often lacking, resulting in severe shortages of medicines. why has the commission not yet put forward concrete proposals, for example in the pharmaceutical strategy, to improve the security of supply of ingredients and medicines? is that really going to happen now?
madam president, i am always surprised by mrs von der leyen's central argument, which is basically that the european commission has done a terrible thing, but that it is still better than if the member states had acted on their own; it is better that the ship sinks with everyone on board than that those who find a lifeboat or swim better than others can be saved: all sink and no one is offended. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. today all the governments of the european union blame you for the vaccine fiasco and perhaps it is not entirely fair, but the truth is that you stood up as the orchestra conductor without entrusting yourself to god or the devil. and that's what globalism is about, isn't it? nobody's in charge here because nobody knows who makes the decisions. the states point it out to you; you point it out to the pharmaceutical companies; the pharmaceutical companies point it out to the states themselves, and if all else fails, we blame the british strain, even though the virus was not chinese. in spain, the same fight exists between the regional administrations and the central government. the problem is obvious: everyone wants power, but no one wants to take responsibility. if you, mrs von der leyen, were in any government of a member state, you would have resigned. that's what i'm asking: dignity and resignation.
madam president, president von der leyen, for vaccines to be a global public good means that they have to reach developing countries. the good news is that covax will deliver its first vaccines this month and that the commission is preparing its own mechanism to donate through team europe, but the challenge is much bigger. while in europe we expect 70% of our population to be vaccinated this summer, the rest of the 145 countries participating in covax could cover only 3.3% of their population, based on the distribution we have received. this opens up a new gap and will create inequality that will add to the existing ones. if we want to be a global player, we must also deploy a geopolitical strategy, since china and russia are already doing so in latin america and africa. there are proposals on the table: an urgent donor conference, compulsory licensing by vaccine manufacturers to generic manufacturers in developing countries, and the european union promoting consensus at the world trade organization to make intellectual property rights more flexible. thank you very much and let's get to it.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches developing countries through the covax initiative.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
madam president, abascal in spain, salvini in italy, le pen in france, orbán in hungary and so on and so forth. all of them with a common denominator: hate speech, racist bullies, lgbtqiophobia, machismo, the exaltation of fascism. so, for me, the underlying debate is that of impunity, that of tolerance with which the narrative of human rights violations of the far right has been accepted and, from there, the use of social networks as a disseminator of hate speech. a threat. and of course, the question naturally arises: should a multinational determine when and why the use of an account is restricted or should a large anti-fascist consensus result in public regulation to do so? we certainly believe that the latter should be the case. the only way to guarantee the fundamental right of access to truthful information, the only way to eradicate hate speech, is the intervention of the public authorities, the firm alliance to expel hatred from any public space.
madam president, one minute, for one point. our societies are too dependent on a few big social media platforms, most notably facebook, twitter, youtube. they determine what we see and when, not based on journalistic standards, but on popularity, anything that keeps our attention. in traditional media we have nurtured editorial independence and diversity, leading to a variety of newspapers and broadcast companies. indeed, this is essential for an informed, balanced, free public debate, and social media should be no exception. so we need to strengthen the digital service sector in the digital markets act, break with the deliberate business model of personalised ads, through which facebook and google cornered the market much to the detriment of ordinary publishers and assure access entry. we don’t need less facebook, we need more facebooks, we need a variety of facebooks, we need diversity.
madam president, it is alarming now to see the growing similarities between liberal democracies and totalitarian states. the restrictions on rights and freedoms with the pandemic are added to the attacks on freedom of expression on the networks. the so-called moderation and verification is already shameless censorship. the victim of everything is the one who disagrees with the social democratic consensus of the establishment. it happened to president trump and it happened to my party, whose twitter account was shamefully shut down the day before the catalan election campaign began. internet service providers must choose: either they are neutral and not responsible for the content, or they are media with a political line and are criminally liable for what they publish, like any media. it is unacceptable that europeans are openly exposed to the criminal propaganda of maduro and the iranian dictatorship, but that vox, its supporters and journalists are shut down for ideological reasons. these attacks on freedom and democracy by foreign private companies cannot be tolerated. and jurisdiction is what nations have to have to defend their fundamental freedoms.
your honour, the exposure of citizens to disinformation including misleading or false information is a major challenge for europe. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken by member states to combat the spread of the disease, in particular by means of the publication of the results of the national surveillance programmes. figures in the european commission's latest reports on content removed from digital platforms say the following: as of january 2020, google has removed or blocked more than 90 million coronavirus-related ads in the eu for violating advertising rules, including misinformation about medicines. in croatia, 12,390 google ads were blocked, in germany 10 million, in austria 9 million. during november, facebook and instagram in the eu: 35,000 posts removed for disinformation that could lead to immediate physical harm, content related to fake preventive measures or medicines. there's a fine line between the freedom of speech that we champion and support and the spread of harmful content that can have far-reaching consequences on our health, our safety, the stability of our societies, and also the disruption of democratic processes. we have made a great leap forward in adopting the digital services package. social interaction has digitized the political space, but it has also empowered the so-called ordinary users to be the media, and that's where we need to find a balance. media literacy, think about strengthening it, and the issue is also anonymity of the profile. it's clear that what's punishable in the real world must be sanctioned in the digital world.
madam president, madam secretary of state, madam commissioner, welcome to this debate because yes, we are concerned and very concerned that undue censorship can be exercised by platforms and we are concerned about the impact of their power on the exercise of freedom of expression, which we know well is the basis of democracy and is the basis of a political system of freedoms. like it or not, platforms are recognizing their responsibility over content, including when they make mistakes and when they overdo it, and this is a good starting point for its regulation, including remediation pathways. we need to empower platforms with legal tools so they can do what we ask them to do: collaborate and comply with obligations to detect, report and remove illegal content, from terrorism and child sexual abuse to misinformation and hate speech. but freedom of expression must be respected and defended as a whole, and i think it is appropriate to recall this so that the demand for freedom of expression is not hijacked by the extremists who are also present in this house, because these extremists, while demanding respect for them, harass uncomfortable journalists, point them out, prevent their access to press conferences, organise campaigns to discredit the media or directly promote boycotts to damage their dissemination. these are real violations of freedom of expression, and you can give them names; what is clear is that this double standard is not appropriate for a debate like this.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the very warm welcome, and i am glad to be back in this house debating a really important topic about our companies and our recovery. i want to begin by thanking our rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their efforts, and to look first at the prospective regulation. it’s been said already by the previous two speakers that the covid-19 pandemic has hit eu firms harder, and over a longer time period, than we had initially anticipated, especially small and medium—sized companies. many of our companies find themselves in a very difficult situation and really do need new investment to keep afloat. the proposed eu recovery prospectus is one way to enable eu companies to raise new equity capital on public markets quickly and without excessive bureaucracy. this short prospectus will be easy to produce for companies, easy to understand for investors and easy to scrutinise for national regulators. that means that it will help companies to raise capital more easily, helping them to stay solvent, recapitalise their business and strengthen their resilience in the recovery. thanks to your efforts, we’ve achieved a format for the new recovery prospectus that eases the administrative burden on companies while giving investors enough information to allow them to make an informed decision. now turning to the reform of the markets in financial instruments directive ii (mifid ii). let me explain why this reform is just as important in my view. the new rules on small cap research will enhance the visibility of small and medium—sized companies for investors, so it will help these companies to raise capital on public markets. on the derivatives reform, the amendments are essentially about green energy, and how to make it easier to finance a new generation of renewable energy projects. providers of renewable energy rely on a secure income stream and this is what the derivatives markets for energy achieve. to be effective, derivatives markets need to be liquid. if we maintain the current low position limit at 25% per market participant, the nascent energy exchanges will never take off. in smaller member states, exchanges have only two or three active market participants. there is also a clear link between these amendments on the derivatives market and the pandemic. during this covid-19 crisis, energy prices have been volatile because of a more erratic pattern of energy demand. it is essential to protect income for renewable energy suppliers, particularly when demand is so volatile. as highlighted in a recent communication on fostering the openness, strength and resilience of the eu’s economic and financial system, we need to support the development of euro—denominated derivative markets, so that the eu will be globally competitive. finally, during the covid-19 crisis, more people are using online financial services; fewer are visiting local bank branches. this switch from paper—based information to electronic format will benefit retail clients, who will receive the relevant information faster. this will also enable investment firms to use their resources more efficiently, and this will also align our financial legislation with the objectives of the green deal and digital agenda. other changes will only apply to business—to—business relationships and will not have any impact on retail investors. while i believe that the mifid ii amendment represents a real improvement, i want to acknowledge this evening the concerns expressed by some of you on these amendments. some of you have mentioned that there was not a proper impact assessment accompanying this proposal. last year, when the crisis hit, we wanted to respond in a timely way, but we did so with a very solid look at the pros and cons of the proposed way forward. the main costs and benefits resulting from the amendments, including on the derivatives markets, are analysed in a separate staff working document. some of you also suggested that the reform would undermine the rules protecting investors, and that more clarity was needed on product governance rules and the real costs linked to investment products. one objective of the capital markets union action plan is to make the eu an even safer place for individuals to save and invest for the long-term and their retirement. in this context, we are working on a retail investment strategy. we will set out a coherent and consistent approach to all investor protection issues related to mifid ii and other horizontal legislation, and i look forward to working closely with all of you on these issues. to conclude, i would like to stress that the capital markets recovery package includes targeted measures to speed up the recovery from the covid-19 pandemic and help the financial ecosystem to recover as soon as possible. we have done this in a timely and efficient manner given the significance of the crisis. voting in favour of the recovery prospectus and the modifications to the mifid ii rules will give a positive signal that the eu institutions can act quickly and decisively in times of need.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to share with you two facts which i think can make us think. these are two facts which reveal a terrible weakness in the european sme fabric, which reveal the great dependence of european smes on bank debt, instead of having the luck and the opportunity to have larger investors who bet on their equity and free them from that very, very heavy burden of bank debt. in the european union, in the first half of 2020, bank loans to smes totalled €573 billion compared to, in contrast, venture capital investment, whether venture capital, private capital, business angel, crowdfunding, which only reached €14.1 billion. i would like to ask all those who are thinking of voting against these two amendments to the prospectus and mifid ii who do they think they are protecting or who do they want to benefit from. i've been an entrepreneur for eight years of my life and i assure you that the biggest luck you can have as an entrepreneur is a shareholder, an investor, someone who bets on the project you're working for every day. the biggest burden is the bank debt, having to pay back a loan. luck is having investors. we need european companies to have more investors. we need to give that oxygen to europe's smes, which are the ones creating jobs. these measures must be approved, but not only temporarily. they should be approved on a continuing basis. and finally, commissioner, you took the opportunity to say that we should approve the draft capital markets union as soon as possible.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the diagnosis is clear: we are moving forward at a snail's pace, there are setbacks, some pulled by the far right, and the pandemic is having dire consequences for women. extrapolated to the beijing convention, this means that no state has achieved its objectives. in the meantime, there is no way to ratify the istanbul convention, the anti-discrimination and women in management positions directive proposal is blocked, some reject abortion as a right and, in general, deny that feminist theory is a field of study. this is a party! but here we are, unreachable by discouragement. we need a european care pact that reduces the care gap and goes beyond the european reconciliation directive; we need to tackle the feminization of poverty by improving working conditions in the feminized sectors and by catering to older women and single-parent families; there is an urgent need to reduce the wage and pension gap by pursuing an ambitious wage transparency directive and introducing correction mechanisms that support those who have already suffered the gap; we need to guarantee access to free, quality public services, especially in the case of sexual and reproductive rights; against violent sexism: a comprehensive directive, ratification of the istanbul convention and gender violence as a euro crime. finally, we want money: we must integrate the gender perspective into budgets and all european policies, and we must encourage the participation of women in decision-making bodies; that is why we have asked for a council to be set up to deal with gender equality. i'll leave it there.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with the concerns of my colleagues in the baltic states. as mentioned, the project has already started in breach of the espoo convention on possible locations. the best way to provide security and peace of mind is for the technical evaluation processes to be rigorous and transparent. and if not, take action. and i think that in this case neither security nor transparency is being respected. we cannot ignore the geopolitical component either. it is clear that there are geopolitical pressures and attempts here. i am ashamed to see members of this parliament defending the belarusian regime which wants to annoy its baltic neighbours. it is clear that we must not mix the technical debate with the political one. nor is this the time, i believe, to discuss nuclear energy. in order to remove any doubts, full cooperation of the belarusian authorities with ensreg is necessary to clarify this problem. finally, we see that events such as these highlight the strategic importance of accelerating the synchronisation of the baltic countries' electricity grid with the entire european grid. let's get to it, chief.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i will not insist on the description that has been made by the majority of members, a description that only my friend thierry mariani has seemed to disagree with, who has made a slightly different description of the situation in kazakhstan from the other. we are facing a black hole in human rights which still shows rhetorically a will for reform, but which will always put first - as they have traditionally done - economic development and then what they call controlled democratization. the degree of democratization is indicated by the osce declaration on elections: non-competitive elections, elections without any democratic standards and without any transparency. the pressure on ngos continues, as does the pressure on trade unions. and there has been little talk, i think, of complicity with china in the pressure on the uighurs. and what i am asking myself is: what is our embassy doing, what is our embassy in kazakhstan doing, which is the one that should ensure that the cooperation agreement includes all aspects of human rights? we have received complaints, commissioner, about the attitude of our embassy in kazakhstan, which claims to be practicing silent diplomacy. commissioner, the embassy in kazakhstan needs to have an opera singer, not harpo marx, given the human rights situation. and i think that if the embassy in kazakhstan does not respond to the pressure that is being put on it, uselessly, by the human rights ngos, surely what we have to do is send an opera singer and take away harpo marx.
madam president, madam commissioner, without a doubt, the covid-19 crisis has made our needs as a society change. it has created new needs at the collective level and at the individual level. and the mask is, without a doubt, one of them. this new habit must be a guarantee that all citizens of the world, and especially in this case, of the european union, have equal and equitable access to all types of masks. because we've learned something along the way from this crisis. during the first months of the pandemic, we could see masks that were not approved, masks that did not meet the requirements that we were asked to meet as the european union, coming into the european union, through our customs and our borders. and so it is important that we send a message of unity to work together as the european union in creating those type approval criteria. it is important because otherwise each country will be left to its own devices, and the single market, which we trust and which is one of the greatest pillars of the european union, we must also be able to put it to good use with this type approval of masks. and above all, with the approval of transparent masks, which we are dealing with here in the european parliament today. it's a matter of equality, of fairness for all those people who have hearing problems. it is a matter of social justice for the european union to make these masks a basic principle of its approval and therefore to have these masks throughout the european union, because if only some countries approve these masks and others do not, the principle of solidarity of the european union will be totally eliminated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are the largest donor of humanitarian aid. we are the most powerful actor, but with responsibility to address this crisis in tigray. when we ask parliament for more money for humanitarian aid, it is precisely to protect the victims of these conflicts, which are adding to hunger and climate change. we have never renounced a humanitarian mandate. ethiopia cannot be the exception. we support the suspension of cooperation to put pressure, but let us seek negotiated ways of getting aid to those who need it. we are grateful for the efforts made by the european union to widen access to humanitarian aid. we know the limitations if the ethiopian government makes it difficult for un agencies, ngos and journalists to work. we call for the priority for european diplomacy and for the african union to be to ensure humanitarian access with impartiality, humanity, neutrality and independence. it's been three months without access. there are nine million people, three of whom were already living on international aid.
in writing. after three months of denial of access to humanitarian aid to assist victims of the conflict in the tigray region of ethiopia, we support the european union's suspension of the cooperation package for the ethiopian government. however, we must continue to look for ways to get help to those who need it most. in this region of 7 million people, there were already 3 million who depended on international aid before the conflict. the number of displaced persons and refugees is difficult to estimate, as the ethiopian government prevents access to journalists, un agencies and ngos. the situation is extremely serious, with all kinds of abuse, including sexual abuse of children. we must prepare for unprecedented famine and the possible destabilization of the entire horn of africa. we call for the priority for european diplomacy and the african union to be to ensure humanitarian access, with impartiality, humanity, neutrality and independence. when the european parliament calls for more budget for humanitarian aid, it is precisely to protect the victims of these conflicts, of hunger and of climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, climate change is the most complex challenge facing humanity. to defeat it, we need more than good intentions, we need truly innovative solutions. one of the most important is the border adjustment mechanism which we are presenting today, with a lot of work by our colleagues in the committee on the environment and the other committees. the logic of the mechanism is simple. think of a car: a car is made up of hundreds of materials, including aluminum, steel and glass. if these materials are produced within the european union, they have to pay about 40 euros for every ton of co2 they generate. however, if these materials are produced outside the european union, they pay no cost for that carbon. cars made in the european union are therefore less competitive. we lose competitiveness if the materials come from within the european union. this puts our industries in a very difficult position, but above all it does our planet a disservice, because it only gets factories to close in europe and move elsewhere, with the same carbon cost, with the same effect on the planet, but with fewer jobs for europeans. thanks to the border adjustment mechanism, any material will pay for emissions whatever it has to pay, whether it is produced inside or outside the european union. for example, car importers will have to pay for the weight of the basic components of the co2 they produce, whether steel, glass or aluminium. commissioner gentiloni, the great majority of the european parliament is saying loud and clear that we want the carbon border adjustment mechanism. the commission should take note of the strong preference in the parliament for a system based on emissions trading (ets), our willingness to cover all ets sectors, as well as final products, and the proposal of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for fiscal design to assess the carbon content of imports. if the commission delivers, it will find strong support and a really strong ally in the european parliament. i think that we have today presented a really feasible proposal to solve one of the biggest problems that we face, and i hope the commission will really take this forward from here and build a really strong proposal very soon.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, first of all i would like to highlight the work of my colleague, mr jens geier, who cannot be here. the european union has a more efficient and less carbon-intensive industry, largely thanks to climate policies, but we are suffering deindustrialisation in some sectors. raising our ambition to meet our climate commitments must be accompanied by an effort in measures against carbon leakage, such as this border carbon adjustment: a level playing field, necessary both to extend our climate policies and to promote those standards outside the union, because the contributions to the paris agreement cannot come from just one side. co2 emissions count in our single market; so must imports: whoever pollutes does not pay in europe and does not get a competitive cost advantage, on the contrary. but its implementation will only be viable if we improve the current model of measures against carbon leakage by ensuring the protection of our industry and employment and avoiding harmful effects. if border adjustment cannot guarantee this, we will not be helping either climate protection or our workers. let's get this thing going in a responsible way.
mr president, the policy of the european commission is increasingly enslaved to its ideology. the green deal is a colossal social engineering monster to which vast sums of money will be diverted under the guise of climate alarmism. the european union imposes draconian measures on companies and now, aware of the external competition and the risk of disappearance and relocation of entire sectors, it seeks compensation through very imprecise mechanisms such as the one we voted on this week. the commission's idea of developing a carbon-related border adjustment mechanism that prevents the most serious competitive imbalances from being applied to the emitting industries makes sense. but it makes no sense to abolish, as the report recommends, the various key instruments of the european emissions trading system, such as free allocation, all at once. either things are done right or we end up directly encouraging what we are trying to prevent: closures and relocations; that is, the liquidation of employment and the consequent ruin by ideology.
madam president, commissioner, this project on due diligence in companies is taking us to the abyss of common sense. in spain, in one year, four million people were unemployed, 900 000 workers had their contracts suspended, 200 000 businesses closed, 600 000 selfemployed people were unemployed... and in all of europe the same figure is 15 million unemployed. and now this european parliament is telling companies that they have to be active agents of the 2030 agenda and they are the ones who have to guarantee human rights, the fight against climate change and good governance in third countries and throughout the value chain. you know very well that this is useless, because human rights violations are prosecuted with police, judges and prisons, but not by imposing more burdens, more obligations, more expenditure, more responsibility and, of course, sanctions even on companies. the only consequence of going forward is that european companies and workers will be less competitive and poorer, and where there are european companies now there will be chinese or american companies. do we want to fight the globalist multinationals? let us do it, but leave out our small and mediumsized enterprises. tell them seriously that subcontracting in third countries that have no gender or sex quotas in companies is an attack on european union law, but, nevertheless, we continue to sign agreements with islamist theocracies. why do we demand from companies what we do not demand from ourselves? this is not the time to overload the companies. we are not risking our money or our lives, but those out there, the workers and businessmen of europe, are risking their money and their lives. we have time to stop it if we exclude small and mediumsized enterprises. this crisis has shown that europe is a broken toy in the hands of chinese industry, and we must protect our employers and workers.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular. i shall concentrate on it all the efforts made by so many members and colleagues, in this case lara wolters, because i know that the work has not been easy. in my committee alone, hundreds of amendments have been tabled and very advanced, progressive commitments have been reached, supported by a parliamentary majority, in principle, which will be large. i am a little surprised by some of the speeches i have heard here, in which it is argued that we would be unable to compete with other countries if we adopted these kinds of measures. and it seems that what some people want is for us to behave like those countries. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a political project and a civilizational project based on high ideals. we have decided that here nothing is worth anything and that we will not tolerate anything: with all our contradictions, with all our problems, with all our steps back and forth. but it is a decision which we have taken and which has been taken, above all, by our citizens. we will help those who want to comply to comply; we will try to make it a balanced framework; we will also give balanced possibilities to those who obviously have less means to meet certain obligations; but let us not be timid, let us not be timid, let us take steps forward. i would ask the commission to be as courageous as this parliament is and will be in adopting this regulation and, by the way, to the member states to adopt also individually a regulatory framework in accordance with this regulation which we are going to adopt.
madam president, madam commissioner, quality employment is a key means of social inclusion, it is an essential aspect of facing adult life with autonomy and independence and it is essential for the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, for the almost 100 million disabled people in the european union, finding a quality job is a great challenge, and as is always the case when we talk about employment, it is even more so for young people and women with disabilities, who are doubly discriminated against and whom i do not want to forget, especially on a day like today. we must therefore take advantage of the recovery context and the framework provided by the new european disability strategy to focus on truly inclusive employment models that safeguard equal rights and opportunities, ensure the accessibility and adaptability of jobs and end the wage gap faced by the most disadvantaged social groups.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. it should be noted that these investments were 70% privately funded and are estimated to increase eu gdp by 1,8% and create 1,7 million jobs, so there is a good chance that investeu will also deliver very similar results. although severely limited, the eur 226 billion should generate an estimated eur 370 billion in investment, and the combination of these funds with the structural funds should further increase this efficiency. my country, poland, is the sixth beneficiary of the juncker plan. we raised eur 4 billion, we made investments worth eur 20 billion. we hope that both the commission and the eib will also pursue a more balanced policy under investeu, because as we know, there are no national envelopes in this programme.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the co-rapporteurs, but i would also like to express my concern. my concern is about cohesion. that said, no geographical breakdown has been provided to channel the billions of investments that will be raised through investeu to businesses in europe's less developed regions. this is all the more regrettable since the funds and programmes created on the basis of article 175 of the treaty must pursue, as you know, the objectives of cohesion. now, mr gentiloni, we must ensure that investeu, through support for enterprises, actually helps to reduce territorial divisions rather than risk aggravating them. you can count on the regional development commission to help you with this. and yet all this raises the question of the coherence of our community policies, which we must constantly ensure.
madam president, the investeu programme is an investment programme of the european union which seeks to boost our economy through its business and productive fabric, through its smes. it seeks to support economically viable projects and companies in the recovery phase by providing long-term funding and support through public/private partnerships. exactly what european smes need. let us not forget: our entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and selfemployed are the real protagonists of our economy, the ones who create jobs and wealth and the only ones capable of taking us out of the crisis. so investing in them is even more imperative today because of the need to recover our economy after the devastating pandemic that we are suffering. i would like to acknowledge the work of the rapporteurs, because it has been a good thing that this programme, through next generation eu, has increased its budgetary allocation and especially its search for synergies with other funds. the difficult situation we are in requires perfect coordination. in this connection, i would like to remind you that the recovery and resilience mechanism provides for 4% of it to be invested precisely in the investeu programme. and today i would like to ask the government of my country, the government of spain, to include in the national recovery programme, which it is to present to the commission, this transfer of 4% of the funds for the investeu programme. spain already has more than four million unemployed, 900 000 people in erte and more than half a million selfemployed people without work. this situation can be made even worse by the fact that 35% of our companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. therefore, it is urgent to help and support them.
in writing. the investeu programme builds on the successful juncker plan and will bring together the efsi and 13 currently available financial instruments under one roof. through four pillars (sustainable infrastructure, research, innovation and digitalisation, smes and social investment and skills), it aims to mobilise almost €400 billion of investment in the eu, of which almost €26.2 billion is foreseen in the eu budget 2021-2027. in addition, investeu will have the capacity to support the capital of companies affected by the pandemic, so this investment support mechanism is crucial to foster economic recovery across the union and to boost quality employment, digitalisation, investment in sustainable infrastructure, innovation, research and development of strategic companies. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. our group has worked to make investeu a strong instrument and we have championed social and environmental issues, with particular attention to sectors that particularly need support, such as tourism, culture and social infrastructure. the spanish socialist delegation has therefore voted in favour.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, in recent years we have devoted a great deal of time and resources to avoiding the divisions and clashes caused by euroscepticism, such as brexit, or the trade wars that have done us so much harm. but we should also have invested more in research, in strengthening our health systems and in early response to health emergencies. that way, we would have been better prepared for this devastating pandemic. covid-19 has been a cure for humility. in less than a year, we've created vaccines that are already protecting the population, but we're not moving fast enough. vaccines must be delivered, not by the hundreds of thousands, but by the millions, to every country, not just in the union, but in the world. protecting the lives and health of europeans is our mission, but it is also our mission to save our economies, our businesses and millions of jobs. that is why vaccination is a priority, and together with vaccines, the objective of the eu health programme, which we are approving today, serves to lay the foundations for the health union. this programme will invest over €5 billion in emergency and emerging threat supply reserves to strengthen our health systems, with a focus on primary care. because we must not forget that behind this pandemic are two other pandemics: mental health and chronicity. europeans are suffering in solitude and with heartbreaking silence this new mental health pandemic. our chronic patients, faced with the current weaknesses due to covid-19, suffer delays and lack of early diagnoses. let's not leave anyone to care or heal. and that's why i'm so confident that this program will help make our systems more resilient and put the patient at the center of our policies.
mr president, after the financial crisis and the disastrous policies that have undermined our health systems, this parliament has repeatedly called for a stronger role for european policies in this area, and what the pandemic has shown is the urgency of that reinforcement. the crisis will undoubtedly strengthen the role of these policies in the union, without undermining national competences, and instruments such as the eu health programme must boost the eu's capacity in key areas: tackling transnational threats, such as the pandemic we are suffering; reducing the health inequalities, which are bloody in the case of access to treatment for diseases such as cancer, and, moreover, as this parliament has demanded, improving access to medicines and health products by avoiding shortages. it is clear that €5 billion will not solve these problems, but in synergy with other funds in the ordinary budget, the new legislative proposals and the recovery and resilience facility, with the collaboration of the member states, should serve as a lever to give a better response and help build the health union that european citizens demand.
madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for this excellent work. the european commission has addressed several meps from our environment committee, not only trying to condition the vote on a position that they should not understand as sufficiently green no matter how much they would like to, but has allowed themselves the luxury of labelling the fishing sector as a destructive industry, acting de facto as if it were a lobbyist for the most radical environmental ngos. this approach is not new and does not surprise me, but it still makes me indignant because it shows a lack of respect for this parliament and for sectors such as fisheries, which are of strategic importance for other european nations, but also for spain - my country - with a fleet of over 8 000 vessels, 30 000 workers and an annual production value of 2 000 million euros. parliament's position attempts to clarify the commission's proposal in some respects, but it is not enough. we must be more ambitious to ensure that the sector is competitive and that our fishermen have a decent income and are not unjustly criminalised. the fisheries sector may not deserve the commission's confidence, but let us show it by our vote that it does have the confidence of this parliament.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mrs clara aguilera for her enormous effort in relation to this regulation, which is key to the sector, which is very important in my region, galicia. the european fisheries sector is the most regulated in the world and the one that makes the most efforts to ensure sustainability. and that has also translated into fleet reductions and job losses. today in the atlantic, almost 100% of the catches landed come from stocks exploited at maximum sustainable yield. today, biomass levels have increased by 50% over a decade ago. and it's scientific data, not partial, chief. the number of infringements is falling by 4%, and this is ceta data, not party data. cameras on the boats? it would have been nice if they had settled down to show people how these fishermen gambled their lives during the pandemic. the commission has not done so. it is enough to extend the presumption of guilt to a sector which complies. this proposal offers the tools and flexibility needed to make further progress on environmental, but also economic and social sustainability, which is what the common fisheries policy is aiming at. let's not forget that. without fisheries, there would be no life in large parts of europe.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, i would like to begin by highlighting the role of the ombudsman, who heads one of the few institutions that citizens have direct access to to defend themselves against anti-democratic situations or violations of rights. i would of course like to thank this work and to highlight some aspects of the report which, beyond the concrete, reveal some contradictions and some weaknesses of the european institutions. for example, it is very striking that one of the recurring elements is the lack of transparency and opacity in europe: i think you will recognize that it is somewhat contradictory that the eu treaties set out transparency as a fundamental principle and that this is precisely one of the recurring complaints. and i am very much afraid that this situation affects both the citizens and those of us who represent the citizens. i have to tell you from my own experience that i have had to resort to mrs o'reilly's collaboration in order to get the individuals who run frontex to provide me with information which should be public and which they have refused to give me. i think this confirms the lack of transparency. in this respect, we must stress the potential of an instrument like this, which, i must confess, does not make me lose hope altogether that, among other things, we will find out what is happening with frontex and what the chain of responsibility is. i hope that there will be more inquiry of our own, mrs o'reilly, because we need it. i hope that this year will encourage you to investigate the violation of rights at the eu's external borders, or the presence of minors in detention camps in the canary islands, or the fascist proposal for a parental pin in spain. unfortunately, there's a lot to investigate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although this report assesses the management of 2019, last year the institution of the ombudsman - the ombudsman in this case - turned 25 years old. it is often said that a right is worth what its guarantee is worth. it can be said that the european ombudsman has been working for 25 years to guarantee rights, to guarantee the transparency of the european institutions and to safeguard the quality of democracy and the rule of law in the union. and, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the european citizen knows the work of the ombudsman and, even more, that he identifies it as a useful and accessible instrument, with clear information on the scope of his competence. in this respect, looking at the annual evaluation, and in our view, a great effort is being made. but we would be fooling ourselves if we said that it was all done. we have already said that transparency is an essential principle of democracy and is not always widely respected by the community institutions and bodies. i think the syllogism is clear: if there's more information, there's more transparency, and if there's more transparency, there's more participation. if citizens participate, democratic structures are strengthened and the european project is strengthened. that is why, where necessary, the appropriate measures have been taken. and here we have defended it, together with the ombudsman, to raise the demands for transparency of the various community bodies and to defend the right to information and transparency in their deliberations. on these issues, mrs o'reilly still has a lot of work to do. i therefore congratulate the ombudsman also on the initiative she has shown in undertaking the investigations mentioned by my colleagues. twenty-five years ago, when the creation of this body was being discussed, some people tried to prevent the creation of the ombudsman by appealing to a sort of confluence, a competence with respect to the committee on petitions of the european parliament and by assimilating it to little more than a mere complaint mailbox. neither one of those things. the joint work being carried out by both institutions is having a perfect synergy in safeguarding the proper functioning of the administrations, and is being done from the absolute independence of both institutions. i would therefore like to congratulate mrs o'reilly on her work and also the rapporteur, sylvie guillaume, on her fair, measured, impartial and proactive work.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on her report and especially mrs o'reilly on her re-election and on the excellent work she has done in 2019: the high number of complaints handled - more than two thousand in the current year - is a clear indication of the interest and confidence that the public has in this institution. for the union to maintain its credibility in the eyes of its citizens, it is essential to ensure that the highest standards of administration, transparency and ethics are applied, something to which mrs o'reilly has shown herself to be absolutely committed. this is why my group supports your work and has decided to give you approval for your budgetary management in 2019, despite the voices that wanted to do the opposite. the cases of maladministration that the european ombudsman investigates, including lack of transparency or breaches of ethical frameworks, have a cost not only in terms of trust but also in terms of money, so her work helps to protect the european budget for the benefit of all. i would like to end by encouraging the institutions and bodies of the union to take constructively to the ombudsman's recommendations and to implement them properly.
madam president, one year since the start of the pandemic, a pandemic that is bringing with it a health, social and economic crisis. life has been able to continue thanks to the care, the protection, of the workers who have been on the front line, mainly in the most precarious sectors: the health, the agro-food, transporters, cashiers, residences ... the pandemic has taught us that only with strong public services can we meet such challenges, but it has also exposed an unsustainable system, an interdependence of material production, the consequences that the model currently has for our environment. have we reacted differently to 2008? yes, but it is not enough: the recovery and resilience mechanism needs to protect life and people and generate a sustainable future, not to entrench an outdated model. we need a strong social pillar, research and innovation, reviving and modernising key sectors, tackling depopulation and strengthening the rural world, as well as training and employment schemes for the integration of young people. only in the key of equality, social, economic, climate and territorial justice, can we tackle the future: nothing will change if nothing changes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk about the economic and social impact of covid-19 and set as our goal to return to normalcy, to a supposed normalcy, in which we seem to have lived before march 2020: because that situation was not normal, in the sense of acceptable, and because there were enormous social inequalities and emergency situations that we already had at that time and that have not stopped growing and multiplying in the last year. so let's talk more about using the recovery and resilience funds to lay the groundwork, to transform this very unfair and very unequal social reality; from sustainability and the commitment to digitalization and competitiveness, yes, of course, but with the goal of leaving no one behind, not with the goal of going back to 2020. local institutions play a key role in this process, and all citizens must also be guaranteed a minimum income to ensure social sustainability. the economic crisis caused by covid-19 cannot come to stay and exceptional measures will have to be taken, such as the cancellation of the public debt of the different administrations by the european central bank. do not tell us that this is not possible, that the treaties do not allow it: it was not possible in 2008 either, and now it is.
in writing. the eu's response to the current economic crisis has been radically different from that of a decade ago. the european central bank has launched an ambitious debt purchase plan from the outset, and the european investment bank has launched a major programme to support smes. the political consensus needed to launch a european investment plan, the next generation eu programme, financed with community debt, has also been reached. however, the current economic crisis is dragging on longer than we could have predicted a year ago. it is therefore essential that the relaxation of tax rules be continued in order to allow member states to continue to stimulate their economies. in this context, we socialists welcome the maintenance of the general safeguard clause at least until 2022 'recently announced by the commission', while stressing the need for both the ecb and the commission to be prepared to give a new impetus to expansionary fiscal policy if necessary.
in writing. the eu's response to the current economic crisis has been radically different from that of a decade ago. the european central bank has launched an ambitious debt purchase plan from the outset, and the european investment bank has launched a major programme to support smes. the political consensus needed to launch a european investment plan, the next generation eu programme, financed with community debt, has also been reached. however, the current economic crisis is dragging on longer than we could have predicted a year ago. it is therefore essential that the relaxation of tax rules be continued in order to allow member states to continue to stimulate their economies. in this context, we socialists welcome the maintenance of the general safeguard clause at least until 2022 'recently announced by the commission', while stressing the need for both the ecb and the commission to be prepared to give a new impetus to expansionary fiscal policy if necessary.
mr president, mr borrell, ten years after the start of the war in syria, it is clear what the aim of those who fuelled it was: to seize its resources, to advance hegemony in the area and, if they could, to cantonise the country to the point of weakening it to the utmost. but saudi arabia, qatar, turkey, israel and other actors, always supported by the united states, have not succeeded. that is why they are now suffocating the country economically and diplomatically, preventing a political solution. mr borrell, you say that there are those who advocate the lifting of sanctions. yes, among others the united nations or mrs alena douhan, rapporteur for the report of the commission on human rights on coercive measures. and we are asking for it too, mr borrell, especially in this pandemic situation, as these sanctions prevent syria from accessing the global pharmaceutical market. we ask you, mr borrell, to promote a new relationship with syria that is truly beneficial to its people and to begin by re-establishing diplomatic relations to ensure dialogue and coordination, both political and humanitarian.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, while the violence of the fighting in syria has abated, the suffering of the people remains unacceptable. the pandemic has further martyred a population on its knees after a decade of unspeakable violence and human tragedy, as outside powers continue to informally divide the country into zones of influence. for over a year, political representatives and civil society have been drafting a new constitution to pave the way for this year's elections under un supervision, but progress has been tortuous and still insufficient, precisely because of pressure from those who would be far more likely to hold this vote within the current constitutional framework. the new constitution is the only way to complete the process of reconciliation, and it is there that we must find the fundamental answers to questions about the system of government, the distribution of power, identity, the rights of women and minorities in a society which has always been multiethnic and multi-confessional, but also to questions of governance, namely how a federal system can take account of the needs of ethnic minorities and, in particular, of the kurdish population, which has fought and suffered the most and which has suffered yet another blow from the west. let us not abandon them and with the conference at the end of the month we shall have a precious opportunity to relaunch this process, also under the leadership of the european union.
mr president, we commemorate the 10th year since the start of the conflict in syria, the region that became the arena of proxy wars and instability. twelve million syrians have fled their homes. five million have become refugees. half a million have lost their lives. these numbers resonate in our heads as a warning that human misery is calling for a solution to this never-ending conflict. i welcome the upcoming fifth brussels conference, where we will again pledge assistance to rebuild this country and help its people. looking at these statistics makes me sad. in the light of the pope’s recent visit to iraq, we have learned the sad fact that a disproportionately high number of christians have abandoned these areas, maybe forever. once again, religious extremism is pressuring minorities to look for refuge. we must acknowledge that our foreign policy lacks a strong tool that interreligious dialogue can play in creating reconciliation among the population. i welcome the pope’s message of brotherhood among religions and the need to offer shelter to the weaker community. but do we have to wait for the mercy of the ones who feel stronger on the ground? when will we finally condition our aid on respect for freedom of belief as well as the other human rights? here’s some food for thought for those working on a solution for reconciliation in the country: never leave the smaller ones out of the equation.
mr president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. 2011: the hope of a people to end a regime and the stubbornness of a president to remain deaf to these demands, giving way to the most violent jihadist organization and plunging his country into chaos. 2021, after ten years of war, more than 500,000 syrians dead, 5 million refugees and internally displaced. the economic cost of this war is estimated at $1.2 trillion. bachar is still here. he controls two-thirds of his territory, but at what cost? violations are still widespread today. the report of the un commission of inquiry which has been produced reveals the massive scale of detentions and enforced disappearances perpetrated both by the government and by external armed forces. we support the appeal of the commission of inquiry and its recommendations, including the establishment of an independent international mechanism to identify and find missing persons. crimes against humanity and war crimes cannot go unpunished.
mr president, mr borrell, the disaster in syria, which began ten years ago, is a humanitarian catastrophe of biblical proportions and a huge strategic and security hecatomb for the western alliance - for all the western countries, for europe and for the united states. it is a tragedy what is there: hundreds of thousands of dead, millions of displaced, syria torn asunder and the whole region unbalanced. this all started in june 2009 with that nonsense of mr. obama at cairo university. since then they have started to fall: ben ali fell in tunisia, mubarak fell in cairo and gaddafi fell in libya; and a vacuum was created in the region that has been occupied by iran, russia and turkey. we are giving money for nothing, and we have no influence to exert power there. we'll see if anything happens with the un, but it doesn't look like anything.
mr president, mr high representative, thank you for your presence and patience in this long debate. i will not repeat everything that has been said by the honourable members, but i will concentrate on three aspects which i hope will be useful in shaping our foreign policy in the case of syria: the issue of impunity, the issue of refugees and the issue of repatriations. on the refugee issue, we have seen - and i hope you can help to shape a common european position - how, for example, denmark suddenly allows itself to declare syria a safe country and starts denying asylum applications or suspending asylum awards. on the subject of returns, we also see a great deal of heterogeneity between the member states, and i think we must all agree as europeans that all minors should be returned, indeed adults too, so that they can be held accountable to justice. and in the case of impunity, we also see different approaches. perhaps we should go back to the security council: we tried in 2014 to get the international criminal court to act and it didn't work; maybe it's time to try again.
the rapporteur. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the members, the political groups and the technical teams for their contribution to the agreement and consensus in the final outcome of this report. thank you, because we have made an effort to put aside our differences and put the common good and the interests of the people who voted for us first. this dossier should help to lay the foundations for the post-covid-19 europe, for that new economic and social framework that we urgently need to build in order to be able to offer solutions that mitigate the suffering and discouragement of a large part of the european population. we need to be able to design a roadmap in which social rights and goals and equity are as central to our governance and economic policy as environmental goals are beginning to be. if this was necessary before covid-19, it is even more so now. we have no excuse: covid-19 has put us in front of the mirror, and we must confront the profound socioeconomic consequences that the pandemic is showing us, by offering policy solutions that leave no one behind, live where they live. we know that millions of jobs and hours of work have been lost; that 10% of european workers were already in poverty before the pandemic; that the youth unemployment rate is at 17% and is likely to go higher; that we are also in the midst of a technological revolution that will bring about profound changes and a complicated situation. we know that women are suffering especially from the consequences of this pandemic, because we continue to be assigned the social mandate of care, and our integration into labour markets has been segregated and, in many cases, precarious. we know that on any given night 700 000 people in the european union sleep on the streets or in shelters - 70% more than in the last ten years - and that the crisis has worsened the physical and mental health, especially of the most vulnerable groups. and, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a story, these are not empty words from a speech. this is a reality that we would all see if it were not for some blinders, for a political and economic discourse that has shown us that it is not worth, that it is no longer worth. the panorama that the pandemic is leaving us with is in many places reminiscent of the consequences of other wars that we have fought in europe. we cannot and must not return to austerity policies. we cannot repeat the mistakes of the last crisis. we are risking our future, our well-being and the consolidation of the european project, including the very essence of the values which led us to draw up our charter of fundamental rights and which have created an area of freedom, security and justice. that is why - and this is a priority for my group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats - as we will be defending at the social summit in porto, we must not accept a governance that limits the quantity and quality of the jobs we generate or the redistribution of wealth in a context of growing inequality, all of which are also negative for the functioning of our companies and the resilience of our economies. the oecd improved its growth estimates yesterday, but that is not enough if growth is not well distributed. that is why we insist in this report that equity and social rights must be given the same importance as macroeconomic or environmental objectives. we need economic indicators that are able to perceive the social problems that the economy poses. this requires an ex ante assessment of the social consequences of measures and policies. the european semester should allow all member states to make the most of the potential offered by the escape clause, firstly, to support companies in difficulty and lacking liquidity, safeguarding the jobs, wages and working conditions of european workers; and secondly, to invest in people and in basic social welfare, health, care or education systems. this flexibility must be carried over into the near future, so that the negative social consequences of the deactivation of the general safeguard clause are foreseen. for the same reason, we propose that the emergency measures put in place be maintained for as long as necessary. the foreseeable national reforms must be based on solidarity, integration and social justice, with the aim of creating quality employment in all territories, to ensure sustainable growth as far as possible, moving towards a new social organisation of care so that it does not primarily rely on unpaid and unrecognised work by women. i firmly believe that upholding the centrality of social in economic policy and governance is perfectly compatible with the competitiveness of the european economy, which will thus be more sustainable and resilient. the european parliament must review the transparency of the whole process, from the definition of these indicators to the monitoring of the recommendations made to the member states. ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be that prosperous and social europe which involves citizens in its political project, we must not and cannot leave anyone behind. and we must act swiftly, but also clearly and firmly. the european union is a reality built on a pacifist, social and economic proposal that has endured to this day, a magnificent human creation built on the understanding of states and economic agreements. but let us never lose sight of the fact that this equation must result in the social well-being of the people and the unwavering commitment to democracy. i am convinced that this parliament wants to be up to date in its response to the historical needs of an era. and this report is just one more contribution to moving towards those institutions and policies that we need, without a doubt, in the europe of the future and in this post-covid-19 europe.
madam president, mr executive vice-president, you announced this week that you were extending the escape clause of the stability and growth pact for another year: that is good news. it would have been nonsense to have started the year with excessive deficit procedures in full in the european recovery fund, and i certainly think that the news - and the announcement they made - is to be welcomed. however, it is clear that the current rules we have cannot be reintroduced as they are; everyone knows this and that is why i dare to suggest to you today, mr executive vice-president, five lines of action in that debate on the reforms we are going to have. first, we need to continue to deepen europe's budgetary capacity, as we have done with the recovery and resilience facility. secondly, we need a golden rule for certain investments: there will be no ecological transition and no fight against climate change without certain investments, and we need that golden rule. thirdly, we should replace deficit limits with a spending rule which would somehow establish how nominal expenditure grows in the member states: it would be an observable variable, much more objective than the ones we use now, such as the output gap or the structural balance, which are somehow totally ineffective. fourthly, we need a different approach to debt: the levels of debt we have cannot be dealt with by the standards we have, and the monetary conditions are very different today from when we set these standards; we need to change that. and fifthly, we must strengthen the macroeconomic dialogue between countries, including their trade balances. i think that these five lines of action would allow us to have much more serious and reasonable budgetary rules; of course, the flexibility we have is not going to help us for the period we are about to start after 2023.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the employment problem, and particularly the young people's employment problem, which has been neglected, must be given priority. we must restore lost jobs, maintain jobs, but at the same time create new jobs. to do that, we need public and private investment, to modernize our economy, to eliminate red tape. that's what the recovery and resilience mechanism is for. and member states should use national recovery and resilience plans for these objectives, to also promote territorial, economic and social cohesion. unfortunately, poverty is not confined to the large metropolitan areas, and many member states preach solidarity here and then forget to practice it at home. member states cannot use national recovery plans to finance the state, to do more of the same, to finance current expenditure. you can't miss this opportunity. we have a precedent here that we must use for the future. the recovery and resilience mechanism, the european semester, must be an asset if necessary.
madam president, mr dombrovskis, when we look at the economic situation we are facing, we see two problems. on the one hand, we have the pandemic, which is getting longer and creating a much longer economic crisis than we imagined when we passed the recovery plan and parliament's proposals this spring. on the other hand, we have a very significant increase in debt that makes many people worry about how we will pay it. the answers to these two problems differ between the left and right sides of the camera. on the left side they say, "well, the important thing is the pandemic; let's spend and spend and spend now, and then, if we can, we'll ask the european central bank to forgive us the debt". on the right side of the camera you start to hear already "tax consolidation", you start to hear already about the concern about the debt and that the brake must be put. i don't think either of those answers is right. when you look at european economies, what is needed are two things: today, spending; today we have to spend much more. let us look at what the united states is spending; the fiscal stimulus they are talking about, compared with ours, is indeed much, much greater: we are talking about four trillion with twelve zeros, compared with what we have approved here. but at the same time we must ensure the sustainability of finance in the medium term and we must make it sustainable. it seems obvious, but it's not. my government, the government of our country, is doing the opposite: it is spending for the long term, introducing structural programmes, and it is skimping on the help that the self-employed need right now. let's do what we have to do to get out of this crisis.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank and compliment the commission. we don’t do that that often, i do realise, but i see that the commission is learning from the previous crisis and seeing that the semester needs an improvement and that we need to change the rules. i have to compliment the commission because on the right side of this parliament, they don’t seem to have learned that yet, so i really wish the commission to put that forward. i also hope that in the council we will see a bit of a learning curve. let’s see what porto will bring. we are talking about economic governance here and economic governance is there to achieve targets. economic governance is not a target in itself. we do that to deliver on the targets of social and environmental development within europe. that’s why we have economic governance. that’s why we need to discuss how to change the rules to have more space for investments, how to be more countercyclical. these are the questions that need to be addressed, and that’s why we need a reform of the semester. i’m happy that the commission is going down that path, hopefully the council too, and then in the end, who knows, maybe the epp?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two factors are determining our discussion. the first is the inexcusable delay in the vaccination plan and the second is the fact that the first resources will not really arrive until the summer, and this is a major factor in the actions, the role and the difficulties of citizens and businesses. it was very good to suspend the stability and growth pact until the end of 2022, but that is not enough. the implementation of the recovery and resilience instrument should be accelerated: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. encourage more investment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises; to prevent the environmental transition process from undermining the competitiveness of our economic and productive system; finally, involve regions and local authorities to create synergies between national recovery plans and cohesion policy plans, especially in territories that were already suffering from structural delays before the pandemic. we must not repeat the mistakes of the past and we must do all that is useful to protect our economies, looking to a serious perspective of deep change which is sorely needed.
madam president, i think we should now ask ourselves whether we should withdraw from the budgetary stability pact. these rules were absurd yesterday, but they have become dangerous today with the crisis that is going to continue, the divergences between the economies growing, cohesion receding and before us the risk of the euro zone exploding. in reality, this fiscal stability pact, which will limit the capacity of the states to stimulate long-term growth, is becoming a pact of social disorder and growing inequalities, and only ideological blindness could lead to its continuation. it is therefore time to get out of this and invent a new form of economic governance based on cohesion criteria, social and climate criteria and it is a new time, an unexpected opportunity that may open up for a reform of the european semester.
madam president, the european parliament has not taken a decision on the union's annual strategy for sustainable growth for two years, and has not reached agreement on the important instrument for coordinating economic and budgetary policies, the european semester, for two years. for those citizens who are following us today, the european semester is giving recommendations to member states to adopt economic policies that will help to bring about financial stability and make us more competitive. in this sense, we have just approved a huge package, with a huge outlay, to deal with the terrible social and financial crisis that follows the pandemic, and european citizens have to understand that these recommendations cannot be diluted, because today they are more important than ever: we need to have control over spending so that that spending is done in the most efficient way. as a spaniard, i know very well what i am talking about: we have to avoid having more plans e on the table in this crisis, which are used to spend and spend, but they are not investments that make us come out stronger and more competitive and, if you like, resilient, that is what it is about. that is why it is so important that the european semester sticks to its objectives, to those recommendations, and that we do not intend to make, as other colleagues of mine in the european people's party have said, a christmas tree in which too many subjects are included that dilute that objective. it is essential to establish a control on spending and it is essential to establish the recommendations for reforms - labour reforms, structural reforms - that will allow europeans, the generations to come, to have more opportunities.
madam president, 71 per cent of europeans are unaware of the existence of the european pillar of social rights, although it was adopted more than three years ago and although they consider a social europe to be absolutely essential, i think that is very symptomatic of where we are. today we are presenting an essential action plan: in a time of crisis, it is the wisest thing to commit to social rights. against the dullness of the usual austericides, it is wise to bet on adequate wages, parental co-responsibility, ending the gender gap, youth employment, the right to housing, protection of the most vulnerable groups and the fight against energy poverty. in spain we know that this is important: there we have the settlement of la cañada real, where more than four thousand people - one thousand eight hundred minors - have been without electricity for five months, literally abandoned by the community of madrid. finally, social rights are more necessary than ever and must be linked to the recovery plan. that is why we welcome this action plan, although it lacks concrete action and fails to include european unemployment and a greater commitment to minimum incomes. in spain, the coalition government has adopted measures to support employment; it has increased the minimum wage; it has guaranteed the minimum income, wage transparency, equality plans in companies and the right to disconnect; it has articulated policies for child care with the corresponsables plan, and has fought decisively against gender violence; today it is negotiating with the social partners for greater labour protection for platform workers. it is the governments of the left that are helping the most; we must take note.
madam president, commissioner, if the european project is a construction, we have built the foundations, we have built the commercial plants, the offices... but we lack the spaces where people live. and the european social pillar is the key element in building that area of protection for citizens. however, almost a year and a half after this commission took office, we are now being given the blueprints for the construction of this key social pillar. i think we are a little late, and we are late because it is essential and necessary. well, in the plans which have been presented to us, in this action plan, for the implementation of the european social pillar, there is one aspect which i would like to stress. the pandemic has shown that teleworking is a key element in the transformations we are experiencing. and you propose, in this plan, to give the hot potato to the trade unions to update the european framework agreement on telework of 2002, when the commission would have to take up the issue and define a european legislative framework agreement to determine telework, because there are implications for productive, labour, economic relations; there are also policies, inclusion, mobility, environment, equality, depopulation, cross-border... i therefore ask you, commissioner, to join the european presidency and use the opportunity of porto to propose a european legislative framework on teleworking which provides a comprehensive european framework, a key element for the present and future of not only industrial relations but also economic, social, environmental, depopulation, crossborder and inclusion relations.
madam president, commissioner, it is true that the action plan presented paves the way for a social europe, but with far less ambition than that which was requested from parliament. more decisive progress is needed and can be made, because while it is the member states that are responsible for implementing the policies needed to meet the social objectives, the european union has a role to play in supporting, coordinating and harmonizing social systems for upward convergence. there is therefore still room to develop instruments to ensure a real social europe. we need a reform of the european union's governance model that makes social objectives binding and includes a protocol on social progress in the treaties, protecting social rights on an equal footing with economic freedoms, and this can only be done from an interinstitutional commitment between the commission, parliament and the council. we hope that the commission and the council will be prepared to take on this responsibility at the social summit in porto, because this house is clear on this.
in writing. the debate focused on the action plan presented by the commission. this action plan is the commission's contribution to the implementation of the principles of the social pillar, and is presented as a new social regulation. it sets out three objectives for 2030 to help guide national policies and reforms, and presents a long list of proposals, some of them legislative in nature. in addition, the plan includes as a novelty the updating of the social indicators table. thanks to the work of the socialist family, the portuguese presidency and commissioner schmidt, social rights have returned to where they belong: at the top of the eu agenda. the action plan has been welcomed by the s&d group, as it includes many of our proposals. however, we call on the commission and the member states to be ambitious and to commit themselves to linking the objectives in a joint declaration with the european parliament at the social summit in porto. the proposed social indicators are a start, but social rights must be integrated into the same governance structure as economic and ecological objectives to ensure their proper applicability.
in writing. this action plan is the commission's contribution to the implementation of the principles of the social pillar, and is presented as a new social regulation. it sets out three objectives for 2030 to help guide national policies and reforms, and presents a long list of proposals, some of them legislative in nature. in addition, the plan includes as a novelty the updating of the social indicators table. thanks to the work of the socialist family, the portuguese presidency and commissioner schmidt, social rights have returned to where they belong: at the top of the eu agenda. the action plan has been welcomed by the s&d group, as it includes many of our proposals. however, we call on the commission and the member states to be ambitious and to commit themselves to linking the objectives in a joint declaration with the european parliament at the social summit in porto. the proposed social indicators are a start, but social rights must be integrated into the same governance structure as economic and ecological objectives to ensure their proper applicability.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, in belgium, david, thinking he had a date on saturday night, met three teenagers who killed him; in spain, last month, an eleven-year-old trans boy was assaulted in a park by four minors. subtitle: teenagers and juvenile offenders. and we still have to hear the right wing talk about parenting pins and gender indoctrination in schools... public discrimination, incitement to hatred and hate crime against lgbtiq persons remain widespread in the union. these people suffer more discrimination in all areas, a high prevalence of attacks and a worrying suicide rate among young people. i insist, victims of murder, assault and suicide. in the meantime, many states lack specific laws that respect the union's minimum standards in this area or do not sufficiently apply them. we therefore welcome the commission's wish to extend the list of 'euro-crimes' to include incitement to hatred against lgbtiq persons, as well as its recent strategy in this area. it would also be good if the anti-discrimination directive, which has been blocked for more than ten years in the council, were to be brought forward at once and the extreme right, the far right and, often, the centre-right, which encourages homophobia from within the institutions, were ostracised. for now, if the european union declares itself a free zone for lgbtiq people, homophobia will have a much harder time.
in writing. in poland, since march 2019, more than one hundred regions, districts and municipalities across the country have adopted resolutions declaring themselves lgbt ideology-free zones or have adopted regional charters of family rights thus expressing their opposition to the ideology of the lgtb movement and calling on local governments to refrain from any action that could promote tolerance towards lgbtiq people and thus discriminate against this group both directly and indirectly. the european parliament has expressed its position in several of its resolutions on the situation of the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in poland, denouncing the systemic threat to the values of the union, as well as the deterioration of the situation with regard to the rights of women and the lgbtqi community. considering that the eu must protect and promote the equality and fundamental rights of all people, including those of this group, the european union is declared a 'zone of freedom for lgbtiq people'.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation - as we all know - is not intended to protect the union's budget, because the commission already has sufficient mechanisms to recover funds in the event of fraud. the court of auditors itself says this when it points out that in the last 13 years there has been no need for significant corrections in the area of fraud. nor is it intended to prevent member states from infringing the law or the rule of law, since that obligation and its consequences are already laid down in the treaties and, moreover, are the fundamental responsibility of the courts of the member states themselves. what is the real purpose of this mechanism? it is simply the sword of damocles that brussels has over all those who do not pass through its hoop. the basic problem is that this union has definitively renounced true democracy: it does not want other ideologies; it does not want to accept those who go against its lust for power, nor those who defend traditions or the family; it even defends insane minorities who go so far as to say that abortion is part of the rule of law. today it is poland and hungary that are in the spotlight, but in the future it can be any of the europeans.
madam president, a few months ago we were discussing the risk of a downgrading of the rule of law in order to access european funds. and we warned back then that respecting human rights only occasionally didn't seem like a very sensible thing to do. we now have a new twist of the script, courtesy of the council, which further reduces this requirement and suggests that we look the other way when human rights are being violated. that poland decides that women cannot have abortions, even in situations of extreme risk to their lives: we pretend that nothing is happening; that zones are promoted free of lgbtiq ideology, that journalists are persecuted and press freedom is restricted, that migrants are beaten at the eu's external borders: the council wants us to pretend that nothing is happening here. i think that what we need is for things to start happening here and for the democratic anomaly that the far right and their collaborators have brought to us to start taking its toll.
madam president, the hard work of parliament's negotiating team last year allowed agreement to be reached on a balanced and applicable conditionality mechanism, a mechanism that is simply and clearly linked to the fundamental values and rights of the european union. it is not a question of ideology or abuse, and even less of 'displaced minorities', as we heard this morning from the far right. these values have always been a condition for being part of our community and cannot be applied selectively at the convenience of governments. if you want to belong to it, there is no room for discrimination or the taking away of rights from a part of society. that is why i would like to remind mr hahn once again that the co-legislators parliament and council agreed that, as from 1 january 2021, the content of the regulation is directly applicable, without the need for guidelines, and that it applies to all types of commitments and payments, including the recovery plan. has the commission done anything? have you opened any files since then? european values are not negotiable, and we cannot allow a few countries to hijack them, endangering the recovery and unity of europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would say to the vice-president that i think we are all aware that cities are playing a crucial role in the middle of the pandemic. they are at the forefront of fighting the social consequences of the pandemic, but they are also at the forefront of a transformation towards a more digital and sustainable society. we can see, for instance, in my city, in barcelona, where the urban transformation, the mobility transformation is really leading the way towards a carbon neutral economy. that is why, mr vice-president, we absolutely need cities to play a crucial role in the recovery plans. i’m a bit worried to hear from eurocities that 70% of cities are not satisfied with how national governments are dealing with that and including them in the dialogue. i want to be clear on that. parliament wanted cities to be involved, and in the regulation, article 15 is crystal clear. what we as a parliament also wanted and was approved was for cities to have a role, to be consulted and also to be included in the implementation of the national plans. my message to you, mr vice-president, is that we have a problem with the involvement today of cities and we need that the commission asks and urges the member states to comply with what the regulation states about this.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, national recovery and resilience plans must respect the principle of involvement and additionality. i hope, mr commissioner and vice-president, that the commission will be vigilant and monitor these principles. the national recovery and resilience plan cannot be used to do more of the same and to replace government spending. the enormous financial resources have to be well invested, in particular to strengthen competitiveness, productivity, but also inclusion, territorial, economic and social cohesion. furthermore, and i draw your attention to this crucial point, mr vice-president, there has to be a link between the partnership agreements and the national recovery and resilience plans. partnership agreements must also involve citizens, beneficiaries, regions and local authorities. but the european commission should look at recovery plans and partnership agreements together to avoid overlaps and require synergies and complementarity. so i ask the commissioner, is the commission also looking at partnership agreements in conjunction with national recovery plans? how many member states are doing this exercise?
madam president, this unprecedented crisis with its devastating effects on the economy and society requires unprecedented measures. we have come a long way to arrive at this european framework for recovery and resilience, which expresses our determination for joint european action. but now is the time for member states to go ahead and table their own plans, within the framework set for the proper use and exploitation of grants, for real support for public health, workers, young people, vulnerable groups, culture, small and mediumsized enterprises, the environment and many others. in addition, the projects should include the substantial contribution of the social partners, and this should be reflected in the priorities of each member state. finally, and this is extremely important, the effectiveness of the mechanism is in practice judged by the speed with which the economies of the member states recover. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the general escape clause and to revise the stability pact.
madam president, mr. executive vice president dombrovskis, thank you for your work. the european parliament succeeded in introducing two key principles into the european recovery fund regulation: firstly, that investments must be made with transparency and controls to avoid corruption; secondly, that governments must consult society, they must consult the autonomous communities, they must consult the municipalities, because it is they, civil society, the autonomous communities, the municipalities, who have the information about what society really needs. we are no longer in that world of command and control, with vertical information, where everything is decided from above, participation is essential; unfortunately, this is not being fulfilled in many countries, and i will give you an example, which is that of my country, spain. as regards the principle of transparency and good governance, the council of state has drawn up a devastating report in which it has criticised the government's decision to abolish controls on the spending of european funds. as regards implementation and the participation of society, i have been talking for months with the presidents of the autonomous communities, with trade unions, business organisations, etc., and i have to tell them, unfortunately, that there is no effective participation of society in the preparation of the plans. the commission must make it clear to countries that the only people who put european funds at risk are governments who want to spend them without controls and without taking society into account.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. what we have agreed and established is: good management, so that the money does not end up in other people's pockets, and consultation with society, local authorities, institutions, because this money is not the dowry of any party or government. in my country, greece, there is no real consultation, neither with parliament nor with the local authorities nor with anyone, and i think that is the case in several other countries. and it is wrong. the european parliament calls for this money to be put to good use, away from corruption and client networks and with the effective participation of cities and regions.
madam president, today, on the european day of the victims of terrorism, i would like to remember all the victims and their families: today and always, memory, dignity, justice and truth. thank you, chairman. member states must urgently submit their national recovery plans. covid-19 continues to steal thousands of lives; businesses are closing and jobs are being destroyed every day. european funds are the answer to building a more competitive and industrialised europe that is committed to a sustainable and digitalised economy, that strengthens our health systems, that invests in education and research, that supports its smes and the self-employed and helps all families. these funds are for creating jobs, jobs and more jobs. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. these funds are for europeans. they're not owned by any government. and we will not allow those who leave governance to radical forces to manage funds without control - as is happening in spain - to waste, creating a new episode of the well-known plan e, creating client networks or ignoring the autonomous communities, the municipalities and society. the spanish need stability more than ever. while the strategic machinery of the government of sánchez takes advantage of the worst crisis to institutionally destabilize spain, trying to bring down the autonomous governments in the offices. spaniards are going unemployed, hunger lines are increasing, self-employed people are not getting any help and there are thousands of citizens waiting for the vaccine. spain needs a government that governs, a government that makes reforms. the rest is left over.
author. mr president, from this platform, and on behalf of my liberal group renew europe, i would like to make an explicit plea to the bahraini authorities, and in particular to his majesty sheikh hamad bin isa al-khalifa, to show mercy to the prisoners currently awaiting execution and to reinstate a moratorium on this type of punishment in the country with a view to its final abolition. because bahrain cannot afford to maintain this extremely cruel punishment in its legal system, let alone in a context where it has demonstrated its leadership capacity on issues that have put it at the forefront in the middle east. how can bahrain continue to condemn two activists to death when it is a country that demonstrates its commitment to peace, fighting daily against the destabilization that the criminal iranian regime is trying to generate? how can he claim to kill two activists in such a cruel and unjust act, while showing the world that there is hope in the middle east, thanks to the signing of the abraham accords with israel or also with the unblocking of qatar? ladies and gentlemen, i have hope in bahrain which has shown the world that progress, development and advancement in human rights in the middle east are not a chimera, but a reality in which we all have to be a part of. that is why i am convinced, i am sure, that this resolution must be heard loud and clear so that they can correct a mistake which is taking them, quite frankly, off the path for which we admire them and support them. in defending human rights and in developing bahrain - a great nation - they will always count on the european union as their ally.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank commissioner urpilainen for her presence here. colleagues have already described the dire, i would say, situation of human rights in bahrain. it’s in the joint resolution, so i’m not going to repeat the question of the death penalty, the situation of human rights defenders, the situation of women. of course, we know that there is a new leadership in the country since november of last year. hopefully that will bring some changes, but we cannot just expect that good things will happen. we need some action from our side, and i see two main issues. first, as some colleagues have mentioned, we know that we have just signed a cooperation agreement, but we have not included human rights in this agreement. how come, can you explain this to us? we know there is also a dialogue on human rights, probably running in parallel, but it’s surprising that this is not included in the cooperation agreement. and second, we now have, as you know, commissioner, a new system of sanctions: the global system just approved. why not use it against those that are engaged in human rights violations in bahrain?
mr president, commissioner, the countryside is emptying and europe is ageing. only one in five europeans lives in rural areas, despite the fact that they cover half the territory. and yet the european union has no clear strategy for rural areas. the most educated young people are moving to the cities, the population that remains is getting older and with less access to basic services, and new businesses that want to open are facing more and more difficulties. so it is impossible to avoid the death of rural areas. we have a great opportunity now. european funds can trigger the transformation we need. let's invest in a smart way then. ensure quality services, ensure connectivity in these areas and provide training; use the potential of rural areas for the green transformation. but let us do it now, because, commissioner, we cannot afford to lose any more generations in the countryside.
mr president, the countryside faces enormous challenges today: desertification, megaprojects and depopulation, above all, but we are not able to guarantee a decent income to our farmers, nor access to land for women and young people, nor quality public services that prevent or slow down abandonment. cities are becoming less habitable, but the gap between rural and urban areas is not narrowing. we are now negotiating the new regulations for the common agricultural policy, and it is essential that they are consistent with the rest of european public policies: of course, with the european green deal and other strategies, but also with our industrial and commercial policy and with our foreign policy. the countryside will not survive free trade agreements, nor the commission's mining fever, nor agribusiness, because they are taking over land, sucking up water and resources, and driving people out. the rural areas are not just places where food is produced and the hands that feed us are reproduced: there are people who have specific needs and interests, and if we want to take care of them, we must offer them quality public services and decent incomes, invest in local agriculture and livestock, reject predatory industrial projects such as open-cast mines, rationalise foreign trade and support women, who are the best guarantors of the population's roots and the generational change.
mr president, today, 11 march, the european day of the victims of terrorism, i would like to begin my speech by remembering them. europeans must keep alive the memory of terrorism so that we never forget its absurdity. they will always be in our memory. we have talked this week about many disparities: labour, wages and digital, but there is one gap that has gone unnoticed, the rural-urban gap, which in europe is more than a gap, it is a real gulf. in spain, the average income for all economic sectors is around eur 19 000. however, the average income of the rural economy in many regions is barely above 9 000 euros. that's a hell of a pay gap. something similar happens with internet access. while we have all been working remotely for a year, millions of people in rural europe are unable to do so because of technical limitations. in spain, despite having the most extensive fibre network in europe, more than 25 000 villages do not have quality internet and about 13 million people suffer from this lack of coverage. this is a digital divide. to these shortcomings we must add a cut in basic services such as education, health, the scarcity of job opportunities and the consequent depopulation. the european union cannot allow this gap to widen any further. the inhabitants of rural europe are as much europeans as those of the big cities and, as europeans, they deserve the same rights.
mr president, i too would like to dedicate my first thought to the victims of 9/11 in spain: memory, dignity and justice for them. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the european and national authorities to pay greater attention to the phenomenon of depopulation which is plaguing our peoples. i call for greater attention and commitment to defending agriculture, livestock and all those activities which, like hunting, contribute to the sustainability of our rural environment. the continuing abandonment of farms because of low profitability and the absence of generational change should make us think about how to prevent certain policies, under the umbrella of the all-powerful green pact, from destroying the socioeconomic fabric of rural areas by hiding behind a false and hypocritical protection of the environment. agriculture is the engine of rural areas today, but we must aim to diversify economic activities by investing in infrastructure and basic services. the current crisis has caused city dwellers, the urbanites, to begin to look at the countryside with new eyes, considering a future of work and personal life away from the city. let us take this opportunity to change and better coordinate our policies.
in writing. the announcement by the european commission of a communication on the long-term vision for europe's rural areas has been well received, as it stimulates debate on the future of territories that not only provide food, but are the most representative of our identity, need their own and independent infrastructure, and whose inhabitants deserve the same standard of living as those in urban areas. the spanish socialist delegation is calling for a genuine rural agenda with a comprehensive vision for the development of our rural areas. this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas. this will not be possible unless we succeed in involving local actors - municipalities and inhabitants of these territories - in the design of this long-term vision. the report also makes special mention of rural women, who must be present and visible in the preparation of the communication. we also believe that the conference on the future of europe presents a great opportunity to develop the debate on the future of our rural areas.
in writing. the announcement by the european commission of a communication on the long-term vision for europe's rural areas has been well received, as it stimulates debate on the future of territories that not only provide food, but are the most representative of our identity, need their own and independent infrastructure, and whose inhabitants deserve the same standard of living as those in urban areas. the spanish socialist delegation is calling for a genuine rural agenda with a comprehensive vision for the development of our rural areas. this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas. this will not be possible unless we succeed in involving local actors - municipalities and inhabitants of these territories - in the design of this long-term vision. the report also makes special mention of rural women, who must be present and visible in the preparation of the communication.
in writing. the announcement by the european commission of a communication on the long-term vision for europe's rural areas has been well received, as it stimulates debate on the future of territories that not only provide food, but are the most representative of our identity, need their own and independent infrastructure, and whose inhabitants deserve the same standard of living as those in urban areas. the spanish socialist delegation is calling for a genuine rural agenda with a comprehensive vision for the development of our rural areas. this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas. this will not be possible unless we succeed in involving local actors - municipalities and inhabitants of these territories - in the design of this long-term vision. the report also makes special mention of rural women, who must be present and visible in the preparation of the communication.
in writing. the announcement by the european commission of a communication on the long-term vision for europe's rural areas has been well received, as it stimulates debate on the future of territories that not only provide food, but are the most representative of our identity, need their own and independent infrastructure, and whose inhabitants deserve the same standard of living as those in urban areas. the spanish socialist delegation is calling for a genuine rural agenda with a comprehensive vision for the development of our rural areas. this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas. this will not be possible unless we succeed in involving local actors - municipalities and inhabitants of these territories - in the design of this long-term vision. the report also makes special mention of rural women, who must be present and visible in the preparation of the communication. we also believe that the conference on the future of europe presents a great opportunity to develop the debate on the future of our rural areas.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to highlight, firstly, the regulation adopted in 2008 and, secondly, this revision which parliament requested at the time and which has just come to us, but there are two aspects of this evaluation which concern me: firstly, i am concerned about the implementation which is being done in the member states, i think we have to work seriously to make this implementation much more stringent; but above all, a thorough analysis is being done of the audiovisual sector which i want to highlight, and i want to read literally a sentence that appears on page 12 of the evaluation: '9% of internet users have tried to access audiovisual content across borders'. this shows us a common interest of european citizens and european consumers in a sector. so what we have to do, our top priority as european institutions, is to work to ensure that all member states implement the regulation exactly as it stands; therefore what we have to do is to work to ensure that everyone follows what is approved and what is agreed.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the next council meeting will deal in particular with the european union's relations with the united states and then with russia, albeit with a slight difference in treatment as us president joe biden will be present by videoconference to exchange directly with european heads of state and government. we would have liked the same eagerness four years ago to talk to donald trump, but it is true, and it is sad, that the election of biden was a relief for the european institutions, so happy to be able to place themselves again in the wake of and even, one could say, under the tutelage of washington. it is, of course, legitimate to have good relations with the united states, a friend, ally and key partner. but they're also our competitors. they are our rivals in the economic and commercial field in particular, and sometimes their interests or choices are in direct opposition to ours - as we see with their unnatural alliance with turkey or their position on the iranian nuclear issue. but it's a safe bet that the exchanges with joe biden will be mainly about - again, russia. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and the rule of law, and to the protection of the rights of the child. russia is, however, a natural partner for europe, as the nord stream 2 pipeline project has recently shown. understandably, recent history remains traumatic for some countries in eastern europe, but russia today is not the ussr of yesterday. it is not a question of throwing oneself into the arms of moscow to change from one tutelage to another, but of finding a balance between the west and the east. europe can and must exist by itself and for itself. whether it is the economy, industry, digital technology, health or terrorism, we must respond with cooperation and protection, without getting lost in a pseudo-multilateralism that often sounds impotent. we were astonished, mr šefčovič, to hear you say yesterday, and i quote: 'we have been open and generous. now we invite our partners to be as open and transparent as we are. but what a confusing naivete of the commission! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it is clear that the political orientations and the way the european union currently operates are not up to the great challenges we must collectively face.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to address my predecessor, mr bay. i do not think, mr bay, that if the french government had signed a separate contract with astrazeneca, it would be in a better position today. in other words, pointing the finger at the european commission because a private supplier - i insist on this - is unable, unwilling or unwilling to fulfil its contractual obligations, i find that just a little bit easy. i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we all want - and not just our fellow citizens - to regain all our freedoms as soon as possible. the european union is a continent of freedoms, a union of freedoms, and it is true that those freedoms have been severely impaired because of covid. we also need to put things in order, because it is clear that when we listen to colleagues who have to travel - i am not so sure, but many of you here have to travel - different certificates are required when you go from one country to another, but it is still a bit of a mess. we have to put some order into this. the last important point is that it is often said that the southern countries need the tourist season. no: it is the european union that needs this tourist season to be celebrated; in other words, there is obviously the possibility for europeans to relax, but economically, the impact on the southern countries of missing the tourist season is colossal, and would have the effect of greatly increasing the divergences within the euro area. in other words, it is in everyone's interest that this tourist season be saved. so, is this famous green certificate a solution to that? yes, under certain conditions. first, we need to have a scientific basis: if we are not even sure that a person who has been vaccinated is no longer contagious, then i do not really see what we are talking about, because giving the certificate without knowing whether the person can transmit the virus is giving a false sense of security somewhere. the second element, which katalin cseh mentioned, is that of discrimination. the commission rightly tells us that a certificate covers both vaccination and the fact that you have recovered from the infection and that you have tested negative. that is very good, but there is no guarantee in the text that member states will not discriminate on the basis of the situation of the person. we cannot, through the back door, make a vaccine that everyone here says must be free a de facto obligation so that our citizens can have the right to a normal life. the third element and third condition is respect for privacy. i fully understand that the public authority should be able to verify the authenticity of a certificate, but i do not understand that states should be given the possibility, for example, of collecting data on who has used a certificate, when and where. there's no reason the states should know and be able to track us down. we have already entered the era of surveillance capitalism, and i would like to see that we do not take inspiration from china to arrive at the era of the widespread surveillance state. finally, if this certificate is to be introduced, it must be limited in both time and space. in other words, there is no question of extending it to uses for which it is not intended. i would therefore like to say, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, and i conclude on this, that whenever it is a question of choosing between security - in this case, health security - and freedom, these are questions which must be the subject of a thorough democratic debate and public deliberation. in other words, to engage in an emergency procedure, which de facto drastically limits the possibilities for this parliament to exercise its responsibilities of democratic deliberation, is a colossal mistake. the democratic distrust of our citizens towards our institutions, and not just the european institutions, has only grown. let's not feed that.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago the pandemic struck our continent for the first time, putting our health systems to the test, causing millions of bereavements, changing our way of life and imposing restrictions on citizens and businesses. we're now in the midst of a third wave: the epidemiological situation is deteriorating significantly, with a sharp increase in the number of infections and hospitalizations and the prevalence of the new uk variant. several member states have announced or are in the process of announcing new partial or total lockdowns. the european union's response seems slow and ineffective. the vaccination campaign is just getting started. the objective of vaccinating the vast majority of the european population by the summer seems to be far off; the feeling of distrust is growing among our citizens; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is time for a real change of pace, for concrete responses on the respect of contracts, on supply, on the improvement of production and logistical capacity, and on reciprocity and proportionality in the exchange of vaccines with third countries. vaccines are the only weapons we have to contain and defeat the virus, to recover our daily lives and to enable a real and lasting recovery of the european economy. a recovery that must be business-centred, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, and this requires first of all a review of the rules of economic governance: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in this respect, the digital green certificate proposed by the commission is a positive step, aimed at fully restoring the free movement of persons and, above all, helping to revive the tourism sector. but on condition that it is approved in good time before the summer and is structured and implemented effectively to avoid disparities in treatment within the european union and to protect sensitive data, but above all to allow the tourism sector and all the activities connected with it to plan for the summer season and to promote economic and employment recovery. this crisis has shown that in the past too often we have made choices that have made us dependent on others: we must work towards strategic autonomy for all the key technologies in the value chains and the most sensitive industrial systems. the digital transition can be an important tool for boosting our economies and creating and transforming new jobs. but at the same time, we must ensure that no one is left behind and that our values and, above all, our security are guaranteed. to do this, we need a european union that is credible, not subordinate, on the international scene. in the eastern mediterranean, a change is needed from the recent past policy towards turkey: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. its attempt to dominate the mediterranean must be stopped in a clear and decisive way. at the same time, the european union and its member states must develop a new strategy for relations with russia, based on the promotion of democratic values, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and human rights. we must avoid disastrous diplomatic missions, such as the one recently carried out by the high representative borrell in moscow, and we must discuss the nord stream 2 project clearly and definitively in this parliament. these are the main points which we, as the conservative group, are bringing to the attention of the council and we hope that we will be given clear answers on this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not while vaccination is taking place at a snail's pace in the eu, the third wave of the pandemic is coming unabated. more than 500,000 eu citizens have now died of corona, with many hundreds more dying every day. the existence of millions of europeans is at stake, the economy in the eu has collapsed by up to 8% in the last year. we are in a historic crisis which calls for political responsibility - but it is lacking. there is growing public unease with the feeling that the eu is being led and held accountable by this pandemic. the commission has admitted its mistakes. but why, mr šefčovič, are they not being corrected? publish all contracts with the pharmaceutical companies. if you release the patents, the vaccines can be produced with all the global production capacity available. develop a common european strategy on how to respond to the virus, how to coordinate health protection and how to contain the social and economic consequences for the population. they've become dependent on the big pharma companies and they're relying on the market. but the market is not in control, as demonstrated by today's case of astrazeneca, where 29 million doses were hoarded in italy and were found today by chance. and you're proving it yourself by not allowing any vaccine to be delivered to the global south for the time being, and at the same time talking about a vaccine export freeze. but you also know that stopping exports can also lead to retaliation, which means that vaccine production in the eu itself can be harmed, and the result is that everyone ends up worse off and no one is helped. if you, the commission, were to be given a grade, it would be: european commission five minus, sitting still. the european vaccination passport is now ready. until all europeans have had the chance to be vaccinated, this certificate should not make the exercise of fundamental rights dependent on vaccination status. the protection of sensitive health data must be ensured and a reliance on big data must be avoided. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer. we don't need a stop to vaccine exports, but we do need - and i'm looking at turkey now - an immediate stop to arms exports to the erdoğan regime. it is unbearable how this autocrat is being teased. at the same time, sultan erdoğan continues to provoke in the eastern mediterranean, persecutes the democratic opposition, wants to ban the hdp and withdraws from the convention on the protection of women of the istanbul convention . we say no to the eu-turkey deal and yes to a humane, solidarity-based migration policy. joe biden will be attending the council meeting, and of course, after trump, we can now think about a common policy. but this must not lead to the world being driven into a new blocconfrontation with a new cold war. european sovereignty also means developing an independent policy towards russia and china, but also towards the united states itself.
madam president, one and a half minutes, of course, is not enough to really give you a picture of what’s going on in our member states, in our homes, in our hospitals. but one thing i know for sure, if i were to say to my sister, who is currently preparing in our hospital for the third wave of this pandemic, that there are 29 million doses of astrazeneca standing around in italy, she would tell me, please, do whatever it takes to get these vaccines into arms, in order not to have this rhythm of another wave followed by another etc. our hospital personnel are tired. we are tired and do whatever it takes. so this is why we, as the epp group and i, support the proposed strengthened exports authorisation mechanism. this is what we need at the moment and
madam president, commissioner, we have been living with covid-19 for a year, 12 months of a lot of good work, a lot of great things, but also a lot of mistakes. we have a vaccine. and with the support of the european union, unusually fast. and we have orders for enough vaccine to vaccinate two europeans. but only on paper. it's not gonna protect anyone. objectively, we have a tough couple of months ahead of us. and if we don't ramp up vaccine production, there's going to be more months like this. it's hard for me to explain to people that we've exported over 40 million vaccines from europe when we don't have any to vaccinate ourselves. it's hard for me to explain why some parts of the european union have more vaccine than others. commissioner, in your vaccination strategy you say: 'distribution will be per capita to ensure equitable access.' but that's not happening today. and it needs to be dealt with quickly. ensure fair access, equal access to vaccines for all countries of the european union. it's hard to explain how it's possible that life in israel, for example, has returned to normal. so i ask myself: how is it that so many mistakes have been made in europe and that the situation here is so different from that in many countries of the world? now we have the green certificate project on the table. yes, they can safely open the borders of the european union, they can be a ticket to a normal life. within the european union, but also within each member state. so please let's bring this project to life. let us not allow each member state to seek its own solution once again.
madam president, i welcome the proposal for a digital green certificate. we need one common eu instrument to facilitate safe mobility for travel and not 27 different approaches and instruments, and i’m sure that everyone is aware of the need to safely resume travel and promote tourism, a sector terribly affected by this pandemic. let me just give you a figure: the gdp of the balearic islands fell by nearly 24% last year. so our economies, especially those more reliant on tourism and the service sector, are very much looking forward to this instrument, and for good reasons. we need to make sure that the certificate has the highest guarantees in terms of data protection, non—discrimination and time limits. but we also need to deliver in time for the summer holidays. we cannot allow ourselves to make further mistakes when dealing with the covid—19 pandemic at eu level.
president of the commission, commissioner, minister! the green certificate is an instrument that will ensure a better exit from the pandemic and will be particularly important for the tourism and transport sectors, but not at the moment and not in the content and form. first, vaccination coverage in the european union is so low that we can plan well, if we are at 30% of what we are trying to achieve, 70% by the end of the season, that is, in early autumn, at the beginning of the summer tourist season, in june. secondly, comparing the tests to other types such as vaccines or antibodies after the illness does not correspond to that result, as it does not protect against transmission of the virus both when the traveller leaves for the tourist destination and when he returns home, which means that different strains of the virus will be transmitted, and this means an additional burden on member states, especially on the health systems of weak member states, and also that the pandemic restrictions will be prolonged. commissioner, we are trying to buy time and economic recovery, but if we hurry, the opposite will happen - with longer and more severe consequences for both health systems and the economy as a whole in the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we all share the commission's efforts, but we must be honest with the citizens: to get back to normal, we need vaccines and treatments, not certificates! less than 14% of the european population has received a vaccine so far, and we're only talking about the first dose. at this rate, very few citizens will be vaccinated before the summer, and the certificates, as they stand, risk becoming a boomerang for those who have failed to get the vaccine. we will work in parliament to improve this proposal, to guarantee the rights of citizens and to prevent any discrimination. the challenges are many: the certificate, if implemented correctly, might be a first signal, but the real solution is and remains to increase the availability of vaccines. that is why we must suspend patents and start large-scale production in europe, as we have already asked for in a question which has been supported by many colleagues. it's the only way we're gonna get out of this crisis.
madam president, tackling the upcoming wave of the coronavirus crisis is without any doubt the most urgent task we have ahead of us. for this, we have to make sure that we accelerate the pace of vaccinations. we have to use all tools at our disposal to make sure that producers deliver vaccines to the citizens of the european union. but as important as this is the post-corona world that we are building. this shall be a world in which people have access to good public services, a world in which our economy is clean, green, digital and modern, and all of this is based on european values. this is why i say it is very good that tonight in the european council, the president of the united states will address the 27 heads of state and government. the big topics of our time require cooperation between the european union and the united states. more than anything else, the european union and the united states need to stay united in defending human rights, in defending the rule of law and the values of the free world. we saw turkey withdrawing from the istanbul convention on violence against women. we need to say very clearly, this is wrong. turkey has to return to the istanbul convention. in russia, we see arrested citizens and journalists with no reason. we see restricted freedom of speech, no right of democratic opposition, and politicisation of the judiciary. this is why i believe we need to adopt as soon as possible further restrictive measures against this country. we cannot say that the behaviour of authoritarian regimes is unacceptable and then just accept it and go on with business as usual.
madam president, interdependence, cooperation and solidarity have been the instruments which have enabled us to live more than 60 years of peace, development and prosperity since the signing of the treaty of rome. it was also these principles that informed the european union's health, economic and social responses to the pandemic crisis. i would stress, in relation to the european vaccination strategy, its joint and cooperative development, the technical and certification robustness, the safety guarantees and the protection of those who are vaccinated. i would also like to highlight the international cooperation promoted by the union through tin europe and covax. but the facts show that the production and distribution contracts, signed in a context of great uncertainty, have revealed weaknesses, have exposed deficiencies which must be overcome. no fragmented response, exacerbating nationalism or selfishness, can succeed. the european commission must be supported to get back on track. the portuguese presidency of the council has not been restrained in this effort. this week's council will be clear on its position. europeans' confidence in the vaccination process can only be defended if member states remain united and in solidarity and formulate joint responses. the implementation of a digital green certificate is an opportunity to re-establish trust. we know it's not an easy process, but for some reason the european union is leading the way in digitization with privacy and data protection. economic and social recovery will benefit from the health certificate and mobility will also benefit. we must move quickly and firmly along this path. i would like to conclude, madam president, by welcoming the presence of the president of the united states of america, joe biden, at the european council. it is a sign of deepening transatlantic and multilateral relations, a positive sign for the world in general and for relations between the european union and the united states in particular.
madam president, three months after the start of the vaccination campaign, the rate at which the european union is vaccinating is still very slow. this situation is unsustainable and unacceptable. the easy thing is to look for the guilty outside. many point to the uk as the culprit. it is true that we should have required pharmaceutical companies not to export to other third countries until they had fulfilled their commitments to european countries. the united kingdom and the united states did. but we did not, and now, at this point, preventing exports to the uk has a lot of costs and little benefit. the reality is that in the last few months we have exported just over 10 million doses of vaccine to the united kingdom, which would not have made a very significant difference to 450 million europeans. the cost, on the other hand, may be a trade war which jeopardizes the vaccination strategy itself, because many of the raw materials come from the united kingdom and other similar countries. what we're really dealing with here is the piracy behavior of a pharmaceutical company, which is astrazeneca. astrazeneca committed to delivering 100 million doses in the first quarter and told us that it could only deliver 30 -- of which it has delivered 17 -- because it didn't have the production capacity. today we discovered that he has another 30 million doses in storage. this is not fulfilling the 'best efforts' to which he had committed himself in the contract. he's obviously not fulfilling his contract. and so, while it is true that we should not close the borders of the european union in any significant way to any other country, it is true that we should use the full legal force of the european union to require astrazeneca to comply with its obligations. only then can we get the vaccination process moving.
i have to say, madam president, it was a good idea for president michel to invite president biden to the european summit. the increasing aggressiveness of various authoritarian regimes around the world makes it urgent that the transatlantic partners re-establish and strengthen their cooperation. this is particularly true of china. europe is no one's vassal. but it is wrong for some european politicians to say that the eu should refuse to join an international political camp. the eu belongs, of course, to one camp, the camp of democracy. we are seeking cooperation with the united states and with many other partners around the world. it's like the new us trade representative, katherine tai, said: we need a united front of allies. it would be right for the united states to understand that this united front of allies with democracies at its core needs a partnership in leadership to work. moreover, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that nord stream 2 must be stopped.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the coronapass will be introduced in all eu member states by legislation. vaccination is one solution, but it should not be mandatory. what will this mean? can someone be prevented from going to the cinema or the theatre if they have not been vaccinated? vaccination should always be voluntary, even in the case of corona, especially now that there is uncertainty about side effects. a vaccination certificate should therefore never be a privilege to live a normal life. i want this passport ready by summer. it will contain three documents: proof of vaccination, recent negative test or proof that you have antibodies and have recently recovered from covid-19. you will need to meet one of these three conditions to be able to travel freely to all eu countries. this will mean that those who have been vaccinated will have more freedom than those who have not yet been able to vaccinate or have had the chance to vaccinate, and they will instead have to show a negative test result or that they have recovered from covid-19. i and my party are opposed to both direct and indirect coercion. a vaccination certificate should never be a privilege to live a normal life. we want people in europe to be assured that we will never force anyone to get vaccinated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vaccines are a common good and not a matter for a few. to get back to normal life, to get our economy going again, we need vaccines. pharmaceutical companies have obligations to the community even before they have to their shareholders. we 've been waiting for months to get our shot to get back to normal life: yet, even today, we find that astrazeneca is hiding as many as 29 million doses ready to be sold to the highest bidder. let european leaders demonstrate by their actions that a stronger, fairer and more united europe is emerging from this pandemic, as millions of citizens have lost their jobs and loved ones as we speak in this house. i wonder what we are waiting for when we suspend licences and start autonomous, punctual european production so that we can guarantee all vaccines. we can 't just bow to the drug companies . the health of the millions of citizens we represent here must be our sole concern.
madam president, unfortunately covid-19 is here to stay for a long time: we will probably not only get vaccinated this year, but the next ones. are we ready for the next few years? it's about preparing or failing. if europe and the member states do not prepare today, we will fail tomorrow in the fight against the virus. we need to accelerate production and mass vaccination and tackle future variants; we need to research and develop new treatments against covid-19 to reduce the number of hospitalizations and save more lives. we must now launch the digital vaccination certificate to allow europeans freedom of movement without discrimination. we need to provide regular access to testing for everyone, to re-energize the economy and jobs. the export restriction mechanism must ensure that the vaccines produced in europe are used to ensure that the pharmaceutical companies fulfil their contracts. and export, yes, but we must always ensure the principle of reciprocity. it is unacceptable that astrazeneca is playing with europe's reputation and credibility by hiding 29 million doses, breaching its contract. the commission and the council cannot stand idly by in the face of this serious breach. we must demand that the member states put in place national vaccination plans. only then will we achieve the target of vaccinating 70%. europe must prepare for the pandemics that are born of this: loneliness, mental health, care for chronic patients. europe needs a european plan to support mental health and loneliness. let's not fail now, there's a lot at stake.
madam president, this year has been a real nightmare for all of us; it has been for all those who have suffered in their flesh from the coronavirus disease; for the people who have been affected because they have lost relatives, friends or compatriots; for the millions of health workers who have been and continue to be on the front line of battle against the pandemic; in short, for all of us. and it has been and is an absolutely terrible situation, not only because on certain occasions we do not see the light at the end of the tunnel, but because we are still facing wave after wave in some countries, as is the case with mine, spain. but precisely for this reason, we also have and have a tool that we did not have until now to regain that efficiency and, above all, trust, which is the vaccination certificate. it is not only the mobility that is so important to all of us that it enables us to do so, but more importantly it allows our businesses, our selfemployed, our workers in the transport and tourism sectors to see how these prospects for economic recovery are opening up. in short, ladies and gentlemen, we in this house have a moral obligation to get that vaccination certificate out as quickly as possible, but also with the utmost guarantees.
i have to say, madam president, last week, commissioner reynders presented us with the green certificates to simplify covid border controls, stressing that he does not care about the specific procedure as long as the final text is ready by june, and of course we can. but now the turning point: a request from commission president von der leyen for an urgent procedure. is this a distraction from the vaccine disaster? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that would be the better solution. but beyond the actual procedure, there are open questions in the council: will conditions be introduced for free travel in the schengen area? what about privacy and non-discrimination? who pays for the tests for the daily border crossing of workers? or will the certificates be a bonus for a few? we must and will examine all this.
madam president, commissioner, it has been said here that the european union has failed. that's not true. we haven't failed. we are fighting. and in view of the pirated behaviour of pharmaceutical companies like astrazeneca, or the real problem we have to face, which is the production of vaccines in europe with all the guarantees - i thank thierry breton for all his efforts - we are doing it in the best possible way. together we must provide a european solution to the management of the pandemic. and in this sense the european certificate is a european solution. we don't want 27 health certificates. we want a european certificate. a certificate that is non-discriminatory. it's not going to be a condition for travel, but it may exempt from other conditions for travel such as, for example, pcr, confinements. it's going to give equal rights to all citizens, regardless of their nationality. and it will be, ladies and gentlemen, a health instrument, because it will give us very valuable information on the vaccination and immunological status of european citizens.
madam president, we must begin by saying that the vaccination campaign in europe is approaching disaster. and don't look for scapegoats, you know. the problem is that they dare not interfere with the interests of the big pharmaceutical industries: they have outsourced the entire production of vaccines to private actors and, as a result, of the 160 million doses that were supposed to arrive this quarter, only 70 have arrived; now with this latest episode of the 30 million vaccines that have been found by chance in italy. this can't go on. you now want to establish border controls. i think that's fine, but the problem is that vaccine nationalism isn't going to get us out of this situation either. what we need to do is produce more, improve our production capacity, and to do that, we need to force the pharmaceutical companies to do technology transfers because many of those vaccines have been achieved with public money. and secondly, support, in the world trade organization, the lifting of certain intellectual property rights, as the who is calling for, because if the vaccine doesn't get to everyone, we're not going to solve the pandemic problem. please act and stop hiding behind the interests of the pharmaceutical companies and force them to do their job and let us increase production in europe by lifting these duties.
madam president, unemployment in spain has exceeded four million. to this figure must be added 900 000 workers in employment regulation files. thousands of self-employed and small and medium-sized businesses are about to close. we have to open everything now. we must put an end to the blackmail of the pharmaceutical companies and take all the necessary measures to revive economic activity. in the case of spain, one of the sectors most affected has undoubtedly been tourism. in one year it went from 12.5% of national output to 4%. and there are almost three million jobs at stake. the model of subsidizing unemployment at the cost of indebting europe and taking creditors' credit must be ended now. we must fundamentally revive tourism. we are therefore not going to oppose this european health certificate, provided it meets a number of conditions: it does not impose restrictions on the freedom of movement of nationals, it does not benefit illegal immigrants and, of course, it guarantees the right of everyone to be vaccinated or not. that is why we must put an end to restrictions and put an end to restrictions, not when peter says so or when the world health organization says so, because that is leaving the future of europe in the hands of communist china.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should be very proud of the european response to the crisis from an economic point of view. the economic response has been very powerful indeed. we have created a recovery fund of 750 billion euros and we have allowed the fiscal rules to be relaxed so that all countries can respond to this pandemic. that is very good, but now we have to build forward to allow europe to have the capacity to respond to future crises, not just the past crisis. that requires europe to have the capacity to act that we have had and to have our own revenue, our own resources: our own resources. right now, many citizens will be surprised to learn that this does not exist. the european union is funded like any other international organisation, like the united nations. you have to pass the hat from member to member to ask for contributions. that's not how it should be. we must have fiscal capacity to be able to act in future crises, to be able to respond to problems that arise. that is why parliament has proposed this timetable which we are going to adopt tomorrow: this own resources timetable, which is based, above all, on making the digital technology companies - which have benefited so much lately without paying their fair share of taxes - and the big polluters pay their fair share. that is our goal, and this terrible pandemic that is going on must open the door to that opportunity so that europe can really respond, in a similar way, in a powerful economic way, to future crises and create this kind of resource.
in writing. it is important that the european union responds together to the economic crisis brought about by the euro, and the one-off recovery fund plays a key role in this. throughout the preparation of the package, i have considered it extremely important that, while we are borrowing against the common eu budget for the first time, we also agree to repay the loan. the reform of the eu's own resources system and the introduction of new eu revenue sources can help repay the debt arising from the recovery fund, although membership fees will still cover the bulk of the package's costs. overall, i think it is important that we simplify and streamline the whole system of the union's own resources so that the reformed revenue side of the eu budget will be more effective in supporting membership fees in the future. in order to get the reforms financed by the recovery fund moving as efficiently and in a timely manner as possible, i would urge all member states to ratify the decisions now from their own resources without delay. as regards new sources of revenue, i consider a levy based on the new amount of non-recycled plastic collected, in particular from january 2021, to be good and necessary, although i hope that the levy will soon become unnecessary as plastic recycling increases in the member states. i am, however, wary of the possibility of raising the union's own resources in the future through the new carbon tariff mechanism. if we were to impose carbon duties on imports from third countries, we would impose difficulties on many of our own export companies and the duties would provoke a very strong reaction from our trading partners. i also find the digital tax plan to be rather problematic, and i also find it artificial in the age of digitalisation to try to separate services in the digital world from other forms of business.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by paul tang, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2017/2402 establishing a general framework for securitisations and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation with a view to promoting recovery from the covid-19 pandemic (com ((2020) 0282 c90207/2020 2020/0151 ((cod)) (a9-0215/2020) and the report by othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 with a view to supporting economic recovery from the covid-19 pandemic by adapting the recovery framework (com ((2020) 0282 c90207/2020 2020/0151 ((cod)) (com ((2020) 0283 (cod)) (com (2020) 01598/2020) c9-09/021 (cod)) (com (2020) 02890)). i would point out to the members that there are no spontaneous remarks or blue cards in the proceedings of this sitting. as in previous sessions, there will also be contacts from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
rapporteur. – mr president, the 2008 financial crisis is still with us today in the form of high debts and imbalances in the euro zone. that crisis had many causes, including the search for yields in an era of low interest rates, but what ignited it were the same financial products we are discussing today, securitisation. and these products are much better explained in popularised movies like the big short, by people much more engaging and much more attractive than i am, but in essence, they allow banks to package and sell loans and in this way they reduce their exposure to financial risks and free up capital for new loans. and these are useful products, remind us of that, because you don’t want to put all your eggs in one basket and they otherwise help to increase the financing of the real economy, and in our current covid crisis this is exactly what we want. and this is why parliament was happy to engage when the commission proposed an impetus to europe’s securitisation market. the market itself is currently not big, it’s rather small, and small not because of the restrictions of the current legislation but also mainly because of the abundance of cheap alternatives for financing loans as a result also of the ecb’s monetary policy. so it remains to be seen what the proposed changes in the legislation will deliver, but in a crisis every bit counts. and the commission proposed to make it easier to sell off non-performing loans, something of increased importance in the years to come, and it also proposed to expand the sts label for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation to a new class of synthetic securitisation. this would give capital benefits to certain types of products that were not the loans themselves but only their revenue streams that are sold off. parliament, like i said, was happy to engage in this but is always aware of the dangers. selling of loans can be a way to hide internal weaknesses or exposing others to unexpected risks. and we saw exactly this in the recently bankrupted greensill bank. they issued risky loans but sold them off in packages, largely risk free. this went well until credit suisse noticed that in fact most of these loans were made to a single materials company close to bankruptcy. credit suisse pulled out, everyone pulled out, and greensill went under. it’s a classic example. and the main worry should be not these individual cases, but that these individual cases do not become a systemic risk. spreading risk is the aim of securitisation, but as history shows us, it may also lead to a concentration of risk if not well regulated and if not well supervised, and that remains crucial. we don’t want the financial market to turn into one big domino day, when suddenly abstract complex products cause very real harm to our citizens. this is what parliament wants and wanted to avoid, so we pushed for changes to the commission proposal. we’ve always mandated supervisors to closely monitor risks, including systemic risks, and give warning signs when things get out of hand. we are also very much focused on the structure of securitisation to avoid problems arising in the first place. first, the issuing bank should always maintain a material exposure to the loans to avoid wrong incentives. second, we minimised counterparty risk, this way investors don’t need to suffer if an issuing bank goes down like greensill did. and third, we further simplified the structure of the financial products to avoid them being used to trick the supervisor. these changes make for a safer european securitisation market, but financial markets shouldn’t just be safe: they should also help us to move forward towards a sustainable and fair economy and to promote sustainability we mandated the european banking authority to develop rules for sustainable securitisation, which should be put in place when the larger review of the regulation comes into question at the end of the year. to promote a fair economy we included strong safeguards against tax avoidance – safeguards that turned out to be so strong that australia has already – even before the law was voted upon – committed to putting an end to its harmful tax regime of offshore banking units. the risk of reduced access to european financing set off alarm bells on the other side of the world in a clear sign of the strength of the european market. to conclude, with this text we can achieve the best of three worlds: a stronger economic recovery; good checks on potential risks; and a contribution to a fair and sustainable economy. finally i would like to thank my co-negotiators othmar karas and luis garicano, and their teams of course, for what was not always an easy process given the time pressure. and i would like to thank the commission’s departments and the council presidency very much for a constructive approach up until the very end. it is now up to our financial markets to make the most of the tools given to them and support our economy through these difficult times.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you're actually expecting othmar karas to be here and see me. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his kind words, but he was unable to arrange to be here and he regrets it very much. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu's biggest investment package ever, the nextgenerationeu building plan, with the new eu long-term budget, the green deal and monetary policy measures, must be followed by our financial market. unlike the experience of the last financial crisis, the financial market is not part of the problem this time, but part of the solution. and that is why we must put it more fully at the service of our common future. we successfully tightened the first screw in the banking sector. at record speed, we have overhauled banking rules to mobilise a whopping €450 billion in additional credit, which will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. the second screw was the amendments to the prospectus regulation and the mifid ii financial markets directive which we adopted here in the european parliament a few weeks ago and which help to strengthen the financing possibilities of companies in crisis. and we are now turning the third screw by completing the comprehensive package of measures for the recovery of the financial markets with new rules for the financial instrument of securitisation. i mean, i know how badly securitization is known. after all, they are considered to be one of the causes of the banking and financial crisis of 2008/2009. as with so many things, it's not the instrument itself that's bad, it's what you make of it. unfortunately, the experience of the financial crisis has led to a certain general suspicion of securitisations. securitisations are not good or bad in themselves, however. if used properly, they can help to spread risk in the financial system, avoid risk of clumping and thus improve the financing conditions of the real economy. and that's a very important factor in these times, because if there's one thing we can't afford, it's that the economic recovery from the pandemic will ultimately fail because businesses can't finance themselves and banks can't extend loans. when banks resell open loans or other assets in packages as tradable securities, this relieves the burden on bank balance sheets and thus further stimulates lending. this in turn contributes to the fact that risks in the financial markets are borne by those who are best able to do so. financial markets are not only a risk factor, but they can also help manage risks, spread them over more people, and in the end, benefit us all. the new securitisation rules thus strengthen an important building block of the capital markets union. what was once poison is becoming medicine for the economic collapse after corona. when properly dosed, securitisations can help to speed up recovery. firstly, because new investment opportunities are emerging, and secondly because banks are given more scope for new loans to households, but also to small and mediumsized enterprises. i am glad that the european parliament, in tough negotiations with the council and the member states, has been able to achieve many improvements. we have further strengthened and improved the strict regulatory framework we introduced more than three years ago with targeted adjustments to enable securitisations to take on an even more meaningful economic role. we have introduced risk-intensive capital requirements for non-performing securitisation loans and so-called sts and balance sheet securitisations. we've increased transparency requirements. we have laid the foundation for the establishment of a sustainable securitization label in response to the climate challenges. and we have significantly improved the handling of potential tax avoidance by securitization vehicles in global tax havens. this momentum must now be taken into account in the further strengthening of the banking and capital markets union. this is due to a number of major regulatory projects later this year, with further revisions to the equity directive basel iii finalisation , the financial markets directive the great review of mifid ii and the insurance directive the great review of solvency ii . i very much hope that we can then continue working together on the successful package to strengthen capital markets. this is also urgently needed in the context of brexit and the economic challenges posed by the pandemic. i would like to thank paul tang, personally and, of course, on behalf of othmar karas, the whole negotiating team and, of course, the european commission, which always has an important role in bringing the parties to the conflict together and finding solutions. i would have thanked the council too if it had been present.
member of the commission. – mr president, i’m very happy to join you before you vote tomorrow on the second half of the capital markets recovery package. today’s debate and indeed tomorrow’s vote will close a chapter of the huge effort by the co-legislators and the commission to help the economic recovery during the covid-19 crisis. i want to thank both rapporteurs for their efforts in bringing this package to a very successful conclusion. this consists of a set of targeted improvements to capital markets and bank legislation that will support the recovery of the economy. in your plenary in february, as you know, parliament already adopted the changes to markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the prospectus regulation that constitutes one half of the package. today, you were discussing the second half: targeted changes to the eu’s securitisation framework, and amendments to the securitisation regulation and to the capital requirements regulation. in tomorrow’s vote, i ask you, honourable members, to endorse the report by mr tang and mr karas. the outcome of the negotiations is proportionate and well balanced. it maintains the investor protection and prudential soundness of the current framework. i believe that securitisation within a sound and well-calibrated regulatory framework can play a crucial role in funding the post-crisis recovery. banks need to be able to continue lending to companies and smes in the coming months, once emergency support measures for the economic impact of the crisis are gradually withdrawn. so it is important to prepare and upgrade tools that allow banks to keep playing this important role. securitisation can be a key enabler in this respect. by moving risk off the balance-sheet of banks, synthetic securitisation could free up bank capital for new lending and allow a broader range of investors to contribute to the economic recovery. securitisation could also help banks manage a possible increase in non-performing assets and loans and provide sustainable funding to the economy in a post—pandemic environment. the adjusted prudential treatment of securitisation of banks’ non-performing exposures will be particularly useful in the months to come, given that we can expect non-performing loans to increase as a result of the covid-19 crisis. securitisation is also a key building block of the capital markets union (cmu) and i welcome the support of this house for the cmu in your own—initiative report of last september. by extending the simple, transparent and standardised framework to balance-sheets’ synthetic securitisations, we provide incentives for good practices in that part of the securitisation market, and we help banks find ways to share risk with capital market actors, which is one of the objectives of the capital markets union project. for all these reasons, the agreement you have reached with council on the capital markets recovery package is an important and timely contribution to the economic recovery. you have demonstrated that europe can deliver quickly for citizens and businesses, and i’d like to congratulate you for your work and ask for your support for this part of the package in tomorrow’s vote.
mr president, commissioner, this week the european parliament has the responsibility to continue contributing to the economic recovery of the european union. today, with this debate and with the vote this afternoon and tomorrow, we have the possibility of enabling european businesses and households - the two main pillars for exiting the crisis - to overcome the obstacles that this terrible situation is putting in their way. the new securitisation framework is that opportunity to facilitate the provision of liquidity by companies and small investors on more competitive terms in the market. this package of amendments to the securitisation regulatory frameworks is good news for the channelling of funding into stock markets and other financial instruments, causing more capital flows to be injected into the real economy. this amended framework for securitisation will have benefits for two pillars: on the one hand, for companies, especially smes, and on the other hand, as i said earlier, for european families and households. nothing to do with that. our proposal should be solely aimed at making it easier for existing legislation not to impose limits on capital flows. we cannot afford any more controls that stifle small and mediumsized enterprises. the adoption of these two reports today will enable us to contribute to the economic recovery of the european union, to facilitate financing options and reduce costs for smes and small investors, to reactivate capital flows and, ultimately, to contribute to market integration and the project of the capital markets union. i take this opportunity, commissioner, to say that i hope this will be a priority for the coming months.
mr president, it’s really great to have ms mcguinness here, and it’s been a pleasure to work with her team to make these two sets of regulations concerning securitisation. many people who are watching us, many colleagues, will wonder what these synthetic securitisations are, and what the point is of what we are passing tomorrow as a result of these negotiations. basically, wrong securitisations were at the root of the financial crisis: securitisations that weren’t transparent were the weapons of mass financial destruction that led to the troubles that we suffered in 2008, partly. but on the other hand, securitisations are useful tools. the reason they’re useful tools is because they allow banks to shed risk, to get rid of the non-performing loans and continue making loans into the future. so the trick is to make sure that the risk that is transferred is fully transferred. what happened with those american institutions that had trillions and trillions of dollars of risk return to their balance sheets was that they had made securitisations that made it look as if they were really transferring risk when in fact the moment there were troubles, the risks came back to their balance sheets. so what we are looking for in these two regulations is to facilitate the use of securitisation to make sure that banks can shed these risks, but in a way that actually eliminates the possibility to fake the risk transfer, and encourages the transfer of real risk; when that risk is transferred, it really is transferred. that’s why we have put in place this set of rules that we believe is going to ensure that securitisations work, but they work in a transparent, simple way that actually allows the real economy to have larger access to credit without creating these opaque structures that were so complex, and that caused the last financial crisis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the tourist industry. mr president, mr commissioner, the 2022 budget will be key to the recovery and green and digital transformation of transport and tourism, two of the sectors most affected by the covid-19 crisis. on the one hand, we need european and national funding to deliver on the new european strategy for sustainable and intelligent mobility. at the same time, we are witnessing the importance of a resilient, sustainable trans-european transport network to ensure the continuous and efficient distribution of vaccines. our infrastructures must be able to cope with future supply chain pressures, environmental shocks and also adapt to technological advances. this requires additional investment and efficient use of european funds such as the cef. the budget for 2022 should also provide an opportunity for the revival of tourism. in this house, where we are voting on the european strategy for sustainable tourism, we are insisting once again on having a specific budget for the sector and moving towards a genuine european tourism policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we cannot forget the most important factor: the human.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, erdogan has withdrawn turkey from the istanbul convention at a time when femicides and gender-based violence are increasing in the country. we are talking about the first country to sign it and the only binding instrument in europe to protect women. erdogan has traded his life for the favor of those who see the convention as a threat to the traditional family: those who in the european union prevent it from being ratified or encourage poland to withdraw; those who call themselves pro vided and believe that women are their particular reproductive machines; those who oppose abortion because they do not care whether pregnancies are the result of rape or rape; those who think that the family is not chosen, but is a yoke formed by father and mother, where father is the owner, and mother, the property. turkey is a priority partner of the european union and erdogan has left turkish women sold to their killers. a step back that should have consequences.
madam president, as rapporteur on turkey, i focus on two aspects: the sequence of decisions against democratic rights and the moment when the withdrawal takes place, in order to conclude on the importance of maintaining democratic conditionality in relations with turkey at all times. i would like the seriousness of the withdrawal to not hide what happened last week: the lifting of the immunity of a human rights activist parliamentarian, then arrested in parliament; the attempt by the prosecutor's office to close the country's third political party, the sister party of the european socialists; and a new ridiculous conviction of the hdp leader. despite this frightening outlook, the council and the commission kept a videoconference with the turkish leader on the agenda. first mistake: not clearly showing our anger at what was happening. conclusion: the decision on the convention was taken hours after that conversation between erdogan, von der leyen and michel, in which they offered to continue the so-called 'positive agenda', an agenda that seems to be based on forgetting human rights. secondly, this disregard for the rights situation has been interpreted as a european green light to continue the massacre and dismantling of the democratic opposition in turkey. i have very frequent and direct contacts with the turkish opposition as a result of my duties. they remain absolutely discouraged by this abandonment of the european union and i have to say that parliament has maintained democratic conditionality at all times. i want the council and the commission to never stop - (the president withdraws the speaker) -
rapporteur. – madam president, i’m happy to present the european parliament’s draft report on the european data strategy. we believe that this strategy will be a basis for european businesses and their global competitiveness. it will define the conditions for a fair data economy which will lead to better services, sustainable growth and quality jobs. it must be designed in such a way as to facilitate innovations, data access and flows, interoperability and cross—border data portability. we must safeguard fair competition and legal clarity for all actors. the covid—19 crisis has highlighted even more the role and need for high quality real—time data sharing. data can be used to predict and treat diseases and understand better how viruses spread. future data legislation must be based on the eu’s rules and values: privacy, transparency and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. human—centric data policy is at the heart of the european parliament position. as gdpr is another topic this morning, the right to data portability and other rights provided by the general data protection regulation must be untouched. but the tools to use these rights must be reinforced. data strategy must support and contribute to the sustainability of the green deal and union climate targets, as well as the resilient recovery of the union’s economy and social cohesion. during our report process, the commission gave a legal proposal for the data governance act. i warmly thank it for the discussions along the way. we fully support the creation of the data governance framework and common european data spaces. in this report we touch on various ways of how to get data out from the silos and to benefit europe in machine—readable formats. parliament insists that data governance must be built on a decentralised data operating environment that will support the emergence of interoperable and secure data ecosystems in various sectors. if i were to pick one of the most important messages from this report and the negotiations on the dga, i would highlight the need for interoperability and standards. well—formed apis could provide essential access to data and interoperability would enable automated real—time data flows between the different actors. we still expect important legislative proposals on the data act to clarify data access rights and flows, business—to—business, business—to—government and vice versa, and also between all governmental actors. economic growth can be secured by ensuring a level playing field and a competitive multiplayer and fair market economy. we don’t want to see monopoly markets on data. data sharing culture and voluntary data sharing schemes must be encouraged by, for example, fair contractual model agreements and security measures. but also market imbalances must be tackled. business—to—business contractual agreements do not always necessarily guarantee adequate access to smes, owing to disparities in negotiating power. actors’ rights and obligations to access the data they have been involved in generating must fall within that focus. this report highlights also the role of the public sector in fostering an innovative and competitive data economy. we call for eu institutions and member states to lead by example and put in place real—time services based on real—time quality data. let me take some other important topics i want to highlight. first, infrastructure. the success of data and ai strategies depend on the wider ict systems. we must close the digital gap, accelerate technological developments and investments on cutting—edge technologies. we are waiting for the cloud rulebook to happen, and welcome new cloud initiatives, but also high performance computing, 5-6 g, ai, fibre and so on. on the climate, the digital sector has a significant potential to contribute to the reduction of emissions. we call for modern energy efficient solutions fit for our climate goals. a cybersecurity framework is also needed for the data economy, as is its deployment, for example in the eu toolbox on 5g cybersecurity. the union’s growth potential depends on the skills of its population and workforce. from overall digital literacy, to software engineering and the challenge to build european know—how on next generation technologies. the data economy goes hand in hand with ai and ai relies on high quality and increased data availability. we must prevent all kinds of biases, especially gender, from being reflected in ai applications. transparency on algorithms is a priority and we must focus on the employment of women in tech to help this. on working life, we call in this strategy on the social partners to explore the potential of digitalisation, data and ai for increasing sustainable productivity while respecting workers’ rights. to increase trust, employees should have the right to know where and how their data is collected, used, stored and shared. i conclude with the global perspective. establishing an international framework for data—sharing and international rules with like—minded third countries is a role that the eu has to take seriously. parliament calls for the free flow of data with proper rules in place, and this funding and legislative proposal will make these a reality. i thank all the tens of colleagues, my shadows and, all and all, the seven committees who provided material for this report.
the rapporteur for the opinion of imco. i would like to thank the president-in-office. data is the oil of our time, data is crucial for economic growth, for sustainability and for innovation and not least for job creation in europe. we must therefore create a single market for data that is free, fair and secure, both for the individual citizen and for the business. the balance we strike in the report. we are keen to protect the safety of consumers, while ensuring that businesses have access to important data. we're trying to address market failure and enable voluntary data sharing. we are setting standards for companies and giving them room to innovate. at the same time, we must ensure that eu standards keep pace with technological developments. we cannot allow it to take years to update a standard, or we will lose our way. we therefore call on the commission to ensure a fast track model for standards. our message to the commission is clear. the new data initiatives will ensure efficient, responsible and secure access to data that creates real value for citizens and businesses across europe.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i wonder: do we have the will and the strength to survive digitally? if we are to compete globally in the digital world, we need data spaces, access to data analysis and training opportunities, and data sharing. it must be innovative and based on principles and we must create the conditions for this, and the commission has done a good job of preparing for this. but i think that the courage, the determination and the focus are lacking when it comes to improving or modernising the general data protection regulation. some colleagues and parts of the commission still seem to believe that the race to digital success can be won without personal data. and there are opportunities today to really connect privacy, innovation and competition. you just have to want it and let it happen. and if this doesn't happen, we're going to be a data colony of the united states or china, and that doesn't necessarily indicate a will to survive.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for this morning's debate on both the european data strategy and the commission's report published last june on the implementation of the general data protection regulation, the gdpr. as regards the european data strategy, first of all, i am speaking to you today in place of my colleague thierry breton, and i would like to thank the members of the itre committee and the rapporteur, mrs kumpula-natri, for her very comprehensive report on this subject, and the associated committees for enriching this report with their opinions. when the commission published its european data strategy in february last year, we could not have imagined what an extraordinarily turbulent year it would be. a year marked, of course, by the covid-19 pandemic. the crisis has further highlighted the importance of data and digital technologies in meeting unprecedented challenges. the commission fully shares the rapporteur's view that the potential of data is not yet fully exploited in europe, mainly due to the lack of trust in the sharing of such data and the lack of interoperability and standards to allow it to circulate between sectors and between member states. the commission also shares the view that we must chart our own european path towards a data economy and society; i would like to emphasize this point, our common values. europe needs to take greater control of its strategic interests, while maintaining an open economy and, as the gdpr already allows for personal data, ensuring that european businesses and citizens have control over their data. with the european data strategy, our aim is to create a true single market for data, where data flows across sectors and member states, and where high quality data is available for innovation and value creation, while minimising the environmental footprint and ensuring the protection of personal data. as you know, last november the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on european data governance - the first part of the strategy - with the aim of unlocking the value of data voluntarily made available by its holders for re-use. this framework aims to promote data availability by increasing trust in intermediaries and strengthening data sharing mechanisms within the union in a pro-competitive manner. we are aiming here, perhaps as early as this summer, to adopt an implementing act on high value datasets so that more high quality public sector data will be available for re-use, free of charge, in machine readable formats across the union via application programming interfaces. to improve access to and use of data, the commission will also propose, by the end of the year, a data act, a legislative initiative to improve fairness in the data economy by clarifying rights of use, notably in business to government and business to business configurations. it is important to emphasise that all these initiatives are or will be fully compliant with existing data protection and fundamental rights legislation, as well as with the union's international trade obligations. finally, the data strategy also provides for the deployment of common european data spaces in strategic sectors and areas of public interest. the commission plans to support these data spaces. the digital europe programme and the second connecting europe programme will play a key role in achieving our objective of strengthening a european data infrastructure and its use in full respect of european values. we also expect industry to invest in data infrastructures, as we expect member states to do, including through the recovery and resilience facility, the rrf, and through multi-country projects. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to now move on to the second item of our debate. i am pleased that your parliament has decided to debate today the commission's report on the first two years of implementation of the general data protection regulation, published in june last year, and to express its position in a resolution. in the light of the libe draft resolution, i can only welcome the fact that it highlights the importance of the gdpr as the global standard for data protection and the need to focus our efforts on the effective implementation of this instrument. we also agree on the assessment of the main challenges that will need to be addressed in the months and years ahead. first, it is clear that it is important to continue to support small and medium-sized enterprises to facilitate compliance with the gdpr. this is why the commission financially supports national data protection authorities in their efforts to reach out to the general public and businesses, in particular smes. a new call for proposals covering in particular the development of practical tools to help smes will be launched before the summer. national data protection authorities are the cornerstone of the effective application of the gdpr, as it is up to them and to national courts to enforce its rules. we need to continue to closely monitor the resources allocated to them, while noting that many have benefited from increases in recent years. we also need to facilitate their cooperation in crossborder cases. we welcome the european data protection board's new procedures to ensure that the one-stop shop mechanisms function effectively. we recognise that more must be done towards a european data protection culture, also among data protection authorities, and notably within the edpb. the commission is working towards this objective. with regard to some national divergences in the application of the gdpr, we will continue our discussions with the member states and consider how these issues can best be addressed. let me say generally that if gdpr provisions are violated, the commission does not shy away from having recourse to all the tools at its disposal, including infringement proceedings. we also use harmonisation tools, such as the standard contractual clauses for intra-eu transfers, to help controllers and processors across the eu to comply with the gdpr and to use the same set of clauses. as the recent proposal on the digital green certificate shows, the commission strives to ensure the highest level of personal data protection, in line with the gdpr, in its initiatives. we systematically ask for the opinion of the european data protection supervisor as well as, for major proposals, like the certificate, that of the edpb. in this context, i would like to address more generally the relationship between the gdpr and technological development. as already demonstrated during the covid pandemic, the gdpr allows for developing innovative tools in compliance with fundamental rights. being technologically neutral, the gdpr frames innovation, but does not preclude it. a precondition for this is that the gdpr is also interpreted and enforced in a technologically neutral way. ladies and gentlemen, with the current pandemic, we are once again realizing how fundamental the issue of protecting fundamental rights, including the right to privacy, is. the gdpr provides the flexibility to address the challenges of our time. for example, in the context of the current covid-19 pandemic, the union's response is not to erect barriers, but to remain open to data exchange, while ensuring the continuity of their protection. the objectives of privacy and data flow liberalisation, and therefore trade, must be complementary. in this context, it is encouraging to see that a growing number of countries around the world are converging towards the establishment of modern data protection regimes, which share many similarities with the gdpr. this is a global trend, with countries such as brazil, japan, south korea, india and kenya taking part. on a bilateral basis we have set up with japan the world's largest area of safe data flows. we will soon finalise a similar arrangement with south korea and we have drafted two adequacy decisions in relation to the uk. following the recent case law of the european court of justice on the privacy shield, we are engaging with the united states to reach a solid and legally sound arrangement. moreover, we are working with like-minded partners to define standards at multilateral level. i am thinking for example of the promising work taking place at the level of the oecd on developing common principles on access to data by public authorities. we are also pursuing debates in the wto as concerns data protection in an ecommerce context. i look forward to our debate today and to your final resolution, of course. as always, your resolutions will inspire our work and offer us thierry breton, myself and the entire commission a roadmap for the key objectives to achieve.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. madam president, europe needed this data and digitisation strategy. investing in data is critical to supporting business innovation and to improving the lives of citizens, all citizens, regardless of where they live. because, as president ursula von der leyen acknowledged, 40% of the people living in rural areas in europe still do not have access to broadband internet connections. as services are cut in the empty europe, its citizens remain disconnected from urban europe; disconnected from new opportunities; disconnected from new services; disconnected, in short, from a more prosperous future. recovery funds are the perfect opportunity to invest in fiber and 5g connections, and to fill the data gap between the countryside and the city. it is time to move forward on equality for all europeans. it is time to connect rural europe.
in writing. we need a data strategy that allows for the free flow of data within the eu, ensures europe's global competitiveness and data sovereignty. europe can lead in managing and using data responsibly as it has done with the gdpr, and it is crucial that all actors - big and small - are part of and benefit from european data and ai ecosystems. data is at the heart of the digital transformation; it brings huge improvements for european citizens and will contribute to sustainable growth with high-quality jobs. but european citizens will only trust and embrace data-driven innovations if they are confident that any sharing of personal data will be subject to full compliance with eu data protection rules. we therefore need to ensure the highest standards of security, anonymity, transparency and trust, and that users have simple and effective tools to use to maintain control over their data. furthermore, we must avoid further regulation getting in the way of r & d & i, and make sure that this path is one that is designed to create value and not destroy it.
madam president, the balkans have more history than they can stomach. i think bismarck said this, and it certainly shows again now that we are at a time when absolutely necessary steps are being blocked. because, while we have a black hole in the western balkans, we have a number of foreign powers that are coming in there and covering up what we should have covered up a long time ago. we have china, we have russia and we have turkey actively inside, taking positions, taking economies and taking a force that is going to result in us later having a serious security concern. so we have to appeal to generosity on the part of everyone, to overcome, on the part of everyone - as i say, the four candidates and the neighbours - these differences because we need cohesion, we need security and we need that black hole to cease to exist.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years some european companies have sold spyware and surveillance software and technology to dictatorships and totalitarian regimes, which have used it to track down, arrest and, alas, kill activists and innocent citizens. among them was an italian company which was able to export these technologies legally, because the government of the time chose to turn a blind eye and allow the export, also taking advantage of a regulatory vacuum at european level. today we can finally say that this void has been filled. the regulation we are about to vote on will make it impossible to provide this technology to foreign dictators. this is not a perfect measure, but by adopting it, europe is taking a big step towards protecting human rights and creating a fairer world. the delegation of the five star movement thanks the rapporteurs of this and the previous legislature and will gladly vote in favour.
mr president, dual-use technologies, those that can be used for both civilian and military purposes, are almost as old as mankind. if we go back to the paleolithic, we already find flint axes necessary for hunting, but also used for war. technology, by its very nature, is a double-edged sword. on the one hand, it is a tool for generating innovation, new economic opportunities and new jobs. that is why europe must continue to invest in new technologies such as artificial intelligence or quantum computing if it is not to lose out in the global technological race. technology has also become a key tool in recent years to help the state security forces and bodies protect all citizens. but on the other hand, there are many reasons for controlling and limiting technology transfers and exports of these services outside the european union. if these technologies fall into the wrong hands, they can endanger our own national security or restrict the freedoms and human rights of third country citizens. i believe that the report we are debating today strikes the right balance to keep advancing thanks to technology without seriously endangering rights and freedoms.
madam president, sharing the concerns expressed by others, i, as rapporteur on turkey, have to refer to what concerns you. firstly, to thank you for finally mentioning the quality of democracy and the rule of law in sufficient detail at the press conference following the meeting with the turkish president. for months this parliament has been asking that democratic conditionality should always be present in any proposal for a positive agenda. at the press conference both expressed their concern, but you, madam president, were much more explicit in your answers and aligned yourself with the positions of this parliament. we must avoid these dissonances between institutions and understand that the promotion of our values is not the task of this parliament alone, but also of the council and the commission. another thing is how we reflect that internal coordination. there are too many faces, too many voices and too many egos in our foreign policy; too much noise. and that's why i'm asking you both to let borrell work. let borrell work because he has the experience and because he doesn't have a personal agenda that forces him to over-act protocol. because you three were elected by the european leaders on a balanced ticket to represent the institutions.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to say some words on behalf of dan nica, the rapporteur for the regulation establishing horizon europe. dear commissioner gabriel, thank you for being present in these extraordinary circumstances at the discussion on horizon europe, the key to the research and innovation framework programme. horizon europe must be a clear, simple and fast—paced programme ambitious enough to meet the challenges facing the union. the covid—19 pandemic has confirmed the need to invest more in research and innovation. even before this pandemic the european parliament has always insisted on ambitious investments in r&i. today i can proudly say that through persistence we have ensured budgetary stability and predictability in order to have the horizon europe programme that will deliver on future challenges. with a budget of eur 19.5 billion, we have delivered the most powerful research and innovation programme in the world, even if the amount is still below the eur 120 billion the european parliament asked for. horizon europe will help the eu adapt to the future by supporting the health system to prepare for future pandemics, its industry to decarbonize and its businesses to innovate, and it will support european researchers enhancing their talents and progress in digital and industrial technologies. according to the commission each euro invested in the programme can potentially generate up to eur 11 in gdp over 25 years. money channelled through horizon 2020 helped finding a vaccine against covid—19, to support research and innovation projects, to tackle many aspects of the pandemic. europe will never be economically wealthy nor safe without substantial financing for its basic and applied research, and without adequate financing and coordination on the health dimension. my calling upon the member states is to increase to 3% their investment in research and innovation, not despite but in particular because of the economic crisis. horizon europe is open to the world, and i see research as a bridge between the union and our international partners. however, we need to ensure reciprocity and open doors on both sides of the bridge in order to have people crossing in trust, as researchers are at the core of finding solutions for future challenges. the significant reduction of the research and innovation gap at union level, by increasing the geographical balance in horizon europe, will maximise the union’s potential for research and innovation. i emphasise that the principle of excellence remains the basic principles in the selection of all projects, but excellence must be supported and promoted throughout the union. a key element of the new programme is that at least 35% of the total budget will be allocated to support the european union’s climate objectives. the instrument for small and medium—sized enterprises is a strength, and new instruments, such as european innovation council emissions, will increase the competitiveness of the european union and will produce tangible results for all european citizens. moreover, efforts should be undertaken to achieve better synergies between the activities of different european national instruments for r&d and innovation, which may provide complementary sources of funding. i would like to encourage member states to use the seal of excellence opportunity within the recovery and resilience plans. in his final remarks, the rapporteur dan nica would like to underline the excellent cooperation with the commission and the main presidencies under which the programme was negotiated – namely the romanian and german presidencies. now i would like to refer to file on the european institute of innovation and technology – and i will switch to spanish – for which i had the honour of being the shadow rapporteur, as for both files. me gustaría, por tanto, agradecer el trabajo y la excelente colaboración con las ponentes, marisa matias y maria da graça carvalho, y dar las gracias también a nuestros equipos y al personal del parlamento, que han realizado una excelente tarea en condiciones extrañas y, pese a ello, se ha llegado a un acuerdo muy positivo. me gustaría agradecer también a la comisión y al consejo su flexibilidad. el instituto europeo de innovación y tecnología es una pieza que la unión europea debe visibilizar y poner en valor, ya que tiene el potencial de contribuir a los desafíos sociales más urgentes, como la transición energética, la digitalización, el cambio hacia un modelo productivo sostenible o los retos sanitarios. hemos trabajado muy duramente para mejorar la diversidad geográfica, incrementar la cooperación regional y la participación de diferentes países y territorios. también insistimos en seguir reforzando la igualdad de oportunidades, asegurando el fortalecimiento de la dimensión de género, que el debate que acabamos de tener nos ha mostrado que todavía necesita mucho camino. con este instituto y este expediente queremos cerrar la brecha entre las ideas y la creación de empresas para que los centros de investigación, universidades y empresas se beneficien del potencial de la innovación en europa. debemos apoyar este acuerdo, que ayudará a reforzar lo que conocemos como «el triángulo del conocimiento», trabajando conjuntamente hacia un horizonte que ponga a las personas y su bienestar en el centro.
mr president, a leading europe has to be innovative. innovation is vital in the face of the virus and it's key to recovery, to advancing medicine or curing cancer, to more efficient agriculture, to cleaner transportation or a less polluting industry. and we must redouble our efforts in innovation. we need more ambition in investment. this parliament will always be opposed to any cuts in horizon europe. we need to attract and retain talent. let's solve the access to finance and the red tape. we need innovation to get to the market with more entrepreneurs and start-ups. it is an open question which the european institute of innovation and technology must now tackle. and of course, we have to close the r & d gap within the union, because reaching 2% investment is now a pipe dream for many countries. european funds must be used to invest in the future, because we have the talent and we have the capacity to make europe a leader in innovation.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation in this very important resolution. unlike air or water, soil is not regulated by the european union. and it's not a trivial matter: soil is a fundamental element for climate action and for life in our territories. your protection today cannot wait. i start with a reminder of the tireless work of civil society. in 2016, the citizen initiative people4soil brought together the efforts of hundreds of organizations. they pointed to the critical state of the soil and called for determined action to protect it. five years later, the situation is even more alarming. the depletion of our soils globally is one of the most worrying and least understood crises of the current climate emergency. thirty-three percent of the earth's soils are already damaged and more than 90 percent could be degraded by 2050. the deterioration is progressing at a rapid pace, with 60% to 70% of europe's soils now in a state of unhealthiness. so far, measures to protect soil have been woefully inadequate, and we urgently need a binding legal framework to protect soil and ensure its sustainable use. soil - the earth - is much more than a natural resource: it is a complex, living ecosystem that plays a key role in regulating climate. it is one of the best tools for tackling climate change, for adaptation and mitigation. but it is also on the soil that our agriculture, our livestock, depend: a commodity essential to our livelihood and the basis of our food sovereignty. the production and exploitation patterns of the sea have a direct impact on its conservation. it is not the same for large farms - the macropark - to opt, as many farmers and livestock farmers do, for sustainable farming in terms of health, the environment and society. in this sense, it is also an essential factor for regional cohesion and regional integration. just as the soil is diverse, so are the activities that feed on it and the environments that host and inhabit it. the link between soil - the land - and the rural world is close, and we must be able to ensure that it is cared for. the roots, the heritage that flows from it, are diverse, and this stock is what makes the soil a common public good. it is the link between the climate fight and sustainable territorial and economic development. today, parliament is sending a strong message to the commission and the council. we are waiting for a proposal for a legal framework that protects the soil, that defines it as what it is: a common good, the source of life for our peoples, our agriculture and livestock, and an essential tool in the fight against climate change. i take this opportunity to remind this house of what the citizens are telling us in the streets: the climate law, today, is not up to the story. we cannot wait 30 years to achieve climate neutrality. why are they so intent on protecting the great economic interests of a few against the land of all? to paraphrase antonio machado: the earth, "the evening is dying like a humble hearth that goes out".
madam president, the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom, far from being an ideal agreement, has already been in place since 1 january and has served to reduce the uncertainty of thousands of people. the high climate ambition of the agreement and the commitments to not back down on labour and social rights are two elements we welcome. but now that everything is decided, there is no excuse for a critical reflection on the last decade of the union. it is the first time that an exit has been organised, demonstrating that commitments and consensus sealed for decades can be broken. all this is the result of the deep political contradictions of the european union and the abandonment of millions of citizens in the crisis of its policies. we have not been able to set ourselves up as a project for the future and now the pandemic is aggravating structural problems. the european union is not up to date: the blocking of the lifting of patents, the construction of a fortress europe without rights or the permissiveness with those who attack women's rights and diversity within the union are examples of this. we can't keep running forward, we have a chance to be brave. in the face of the necessary reforms, we need to strengthen democracy and strategic autonomy that responds to the needs of the majorities.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank mr barnier for the work he has done and, from the left, inevitably make some critical remarks, especially since we are dealing with a trade agreement without binding mechanisms in the field of rights, just a declaration of good intentions. it talks about maintaining existing environmental standards and yet maintains the uk's presence in euratom. i would like to make a parenthesis: the united kingdom has 15 nuclear reactors operating very close to our borders, over which we have lost all control or enforcement of binding rules. another important element is the loss of the right of movement, which represents a regression of rights. it is good news that gibraltar is staying in schengen, but also thanks to the efforts of the spanish government. we believe that the commission should guarantee the position of community men and women in the united kingdom. in the case of spain alone, we are talking about some 250 000 people. ensure that they are not discriminated against in employment and that those who are having problems registering or who are late are given the support they need. basically, leave no one behind.
mr president, i lived in the uk for a decade and my eldest son now lives there, and the difference between the freedoms that i enjoyed and the ones he will enjoy are stark. i enjoyed free movement. he can look forward to crossing borders, being in queues and paying for costly visas each time he travels. my generation enjoyed the erasmus programme. his generation – and all other uk students – will not be allowed to travel around the continent and get to know other educational systems and other cultures. i enjoyed portable social security rights. he will not enjoy such rights. he, like another three million european citizens in the uk, has gone from being a citizen to an immigrant overnight, and the same is happening to 1.2 million uk diaspora brits, who will be deprived of the right to citizenship and will have to endure nightmares of restricted working rights. the uk government wanted this and we accept it and we will vote for it, but it’s not a good deal, as no deal that curtails rights and limits the ability of people to move could be. i hope a new generation of british people will continue the struggle and, in due time, we will see the uk return to the european union.
mr president, i thank commissioner šefčovič, who represents the commission, and i also thank the secretary of state, ana paula zacarias. the truth is that today's vote is in a way the end of five years of work on the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. i will not repeat what other members have said about what that means, but it is true that, paradoxically, it has given a boost to cohesion between citizens, institutions and member states around the common project and the relaunch that we will start on 9 may with the conference on the future of europe. as for the results of brexit - the results we have seen in the last few months - they are really negative, particularly for the united kingdom. some of the figures i find relevant are: the fall of 50-40% of uk exports to the european union - that seems like a really big number - the inactivity of ports, for example in wales, the exit of financial institutions from the city of london. well, that's the way it's been. perhaps one day our british friends will decide to return. i hope so, but it will have to be with a large social majority and without exceptions: no cheques and no exceptions to monetary union. i am concerned about the governance of the agreement and the involvement of the european parliament in governance. we have called for a memorandum with the commission or an interinstitutional agreement. we have today's statement, which we thank, and also the president has spoken of a legislative act limited to some of the dimensions of governance. we would like to have that clarified, if you please, commissioner, but it must be clear that parliament must be able to participate in key matters such as the possible suspension or amendment of the agreement, not just be informed, as the president has said.
madam president, guess which european agency is spending half a million euros of public money on each party, which agency is serving as an instrument to materialize the policies of a strong europe, which agency could be using the money of europeans and europeans to execute hot returns. right, you guessed it: it's frontex, the agency out of control. that is why it is good news that the cont committee has agreed to postpone the approval of the agency's accounts and perhaps this is a good opportunity to reflect. think about it: it's probably hard to find another european structure that has had the budget increase that frontex has had: it has multiplied by 20 in 14 years, that is, from 42 million in 2017 to almost 900 in 2021. and for what? if there is no transparency, there is no accountability, there is no respect for human rights, there is no accountability. we have a chance to stop this nonsense. budgets are political instruments. do we really want to use them to consolidate a human rights denialist agency, which considers migrants to be enemies, which actively practices the omission of the duty to help? last week, they left 130 people stranded in the mediterranean, and they died. moreover, is it inevitable that frontex is an instrument for the normalisation of the far-right agenda? we think not; we think we can avoid it. so, not one more euro for this agency.
madam president, we are debating for another year the approval of the annual budgetary management of the european institutions and, as we can see, the approval of almost all of them will be approved. once again, within the other institutions, we have a serious exception to this approval: the council, whose lack of cooperation continues to make a real examination of its accounts impossible, something which worries us and we hope that a solution will soon be found. the other institutions assume and support the role of the committee on budgetary control, which makes it possible to scrutinise all of them and ensure sound financial management as our duty to the citizen. the new presidency of the european economic and social committee has, thanks to the discharge procedure, started work on correcting the errors and addressing the problems that caused the non-approval of the 2018 budget, so that its discharge will be approved this year. the procedure for the approval of budgetary management allows us to support the ombudsman's management or to highlight the work of the advisory committees which represent the citizens in the european legislative process. the s&d group has sought to reinforce gender equality in all reports, especially in management positions, ethical standards in their entirety, including transparency and accountability, and also appropriate working conditions, as well as the right to disconnect. all european institutions must be an example of good management and also of ethics, respect and dignity.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund for migrant workers (egf) is the solidarity fund set up in 2007 to finance labour market activation measures (such as training, job search and business creation) in the context of unexpected redundancies caused by globalisation or by global economic and financial crises, which have a significant impact on the economy at regional or local level. the new egf 2021-2027 will not only ensure the continuation of the fund beyond 2020, but will also allow for increased support for people who lose their jobs due to restructuring processes in europe, by having an increased annual budget, and by including additional reasons for considering a case of redundancy as eligible for funding. we have succeeded in reducing the number of redundancies that can be mobilised from 500 to 200. we have secured childcare allowance for workers made redundant with children and we have increased financial support for selfemployed people who want to start their own business to eur 22 000.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner reynders, i welcome the approval of this programme and, in particular, the support it provides for the recovery of historical memory and the dissemination of the disastrous consequences of fascism and dictatorships so that they never happen again. remembering our own history and the fragility of democracy is one of the antidotes against the discourse of the extreme right, an extreme right that is present throughout europe, including in the institutions, that trivializes the discourse of hatred, denies crimes against humanity, does not hesitate to lie and dehumanizes the political rival. and it also encourages violence. these were the causes of the murder of the member of parliament, jo cox, by a neo-nazi; the same causes which today are the motivation for the death threats against politicians in the spanish state. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot normalize the far right. as jason stanley writes, if the past teaches us anything, it's that the triumph of fascism is always understood a few years later. let's have a memory.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's tourism industry is not left behind. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the tourism industry is not left behind. that is why i am delighted that today, finally, 13 months after the world health organisation recognised and defined this situation as a pandemic, we can come to this plenary and debate one of the most important points in the tourism sector, one of the most important sectors and one of the most important groups: the hospitality sector. ladies and gentlemen, as we debate this in the chamber, there are millions of bars and restaurants that remain closed throughout the geography of europe. here in brussels - we are all aware of this reality - the hotel has been closed for more than six months, and we all know restaurants and bars that will not reopen and some that are in a really worrying situation. but this pandemic has also shown us that there are different management models and experiences, models that are absolutely positive and from which, frankly, i think europe should learn. mr breton, we liberals are responsible for this management model, because we believe that the opening up and pursuit of the hotel business is not incompatible with the protection of public health. and a clear example has been the government of liberals and conservatives of the community of madrid, where the hotel industry has been kept open and where it has also been achieved that the accumulated incidence of madrid compared to other cities, such as brussels, is infinitely lower after brussels has been closed for more than half a year, since october 2020. a government which in this case has demonstrated these circumstances with a management which has been an example throughout europe. and the first step in helping the hotel industry is precisely not to demonize, not to criminalize this sector, as some governments do, as some parties do, which really shows their lack of ideas or lack of experience in management. that is why, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that experience has clearly shown that we need more liberal management in europe and far less political discourse which is absolutely far from reality. if we can do that, not only will the hospitality industry recover, the economy will recover, and we will all recover.
madam president, tourism is a strategic industry for the european union and has been one of the sectors most affected by covid-19. this parliament is very clear about this and, although we very much appreciate the fact that the european union has put in place mechanisms such as sure, react-eu and the relaxation of state aid, which have had a positive impact on the tourism sector, we continue to call for a genuine european tourism policy. in the previous plenary session, we approved the european strategy for sustainable tourism, demonstrating once again the commitment of this house to the sector; a strategy which should be the roadmap to reactivate the sector and accompany it in the necessary ecological and digital transition it is facing. the summer season is just around the corner. vaccination programmes and the covid certificate are an opportunity to regain the confidence of travellers and facilitate freedom of movement in safe conditions. the national recovery plans will provide a definitive impetus to the sustainable and safe recovery of the sector. you could say that we're starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel, but we need more. we need to join forces with the commission and, above all, with the council. we need common criteria throughout europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 100 kg. we need the traveler to have enough information about regulations, about centers where to get tested... updated information points should be set up both physically and online and, above all, we need to avoid any unilateral measures on additional restrictions to the certificate such as quarantines. only then will the citizens' confidence in travel return. only then can the sector survive.
madam president, this crisis has momentarily buried the sacrosanct dogma of austerity that was promoted in the previous one in 2008. many measures have been taken in different european countries to minimise their negative effects. the same thing is happening in the hotel and tourism sector, but i want to focus on the increasingly deteriorating working conditions of the workers in this sector: low wages, overwork, temporary contracts, seasonality, subcontracting and abuse of all kinds. the mechanisms of flexibility and the neoliberal policies have been applied, which have even meant that in many areas these sectors do not even enjoy collective agreements. we are talking about outrageous levels of unemployment and temporary work. aid in the face of this global crisis is more necessary than ever, but it cannot be a free-for-all, neither for negationist policies nor for disregarding policies that are concerned about health, as is happening in the community of madrid, where the rate of contagion from other areas is multiplying, nor for facilitating fraud and the exploitation of workers.
in writing. tourism is a strategic industry for the european union and has been one of the sectors most affected by covid-19. the eu's response with funding mechanisms such as sure, react-eu or the relaxation of state aid has had a positive impact on the tourism sector. however, the european parliament, and in particular the s&d group, continue to call for a genuine european tourism policy that sets out a roadmap to revitalise the sector and to implement concrete measures, including targeted european investment, to tackle the green and digital transition. with the summer season just around the corner, vaccination and the covid certificate are an opportunity to regain the confidence of travelers and facilitate freedom of movement. however, we need to go a step further and join forces with the commission and the council to establish common european criteria that restore confidence and ensure the safety of citizens when travelling: unifying passenger forms, affordability of pcrs, creating up-to-date information points - both physical and online - at destinations, setting up testing centres at airports and avoiding any unilateral measures on additional restrictions such as quarantines.
in writing. tourism is a strategic industry for the european union and has been one of the sectors most affected by covid-19. the eu's response with funding mechanisms such as sure, react-eu or the relaxation of state aid has had a positive impact on the tourism sector. however, the european parliament, and in particular the s&d group, continue to call for a genuine european tourism policy that sets out a roadmap to revitalise the sector and to implement concrete measures, including targeted european investment, to tackle the green and digital transition. with the summer season just around the corner, vaccination and the covid certificate are an opportunity to regain the confidence of travelers and facilitate freedom of movement. however, we need to go a step further and join forces with the commission and the council to establish common european criteria that restore confidence and ensure the safety of citizens when travelling: unifying passenger forms, affordability of pcrs, creating up-to-date information points - both physical and online - at destinations, setting up testing centres at airports and avoiding any unilateral measures on additional restrictions such as quarantines.
in writing. tourism is a strategic industry for the european union and has been one of the sectors most affected by covid-19. the eu's response with funding mechanisms such as sure, react-eu or the relaxation of state aid has had a positive impact on the tourism sector. however, the european parliament, and in particular the s&d group, continue to call for a genuine european tourism policy that sets out a roadmap to revitalise the sector and to implement concrete measures, including targeted european investment, to tackle the green and digital transition. with the summer season just around the corner, vaccination and the covid certificate are an opportunity to regain the confidence of travelers and facilitate freedom of movement. however, we need to go a step further and join forces with the commission and the council to establish common european criteria that restore confidence and ensure the safety of citizens when travelling: unifying passenger forms, affordability of pcrs, creating up-to-date information points - both physical and online - at destinations, setting up testing centres at airports and avoiding any unilateral measures on additional restrictions such as quarantines.
in writing. tourism is a strategic industry for the european union and has been one of the sectors most affected by covid-19. the eu's response with funding mechanisms such as sure, react-eu or the relaxation of state aid has had a positive impact on the tourism sector. however, the european parliament, and in particular the s&d group, continue to call for a genuine european tourism policy that sets out a roadmap to revitalise the sector and to implement concrete measures, including targeted european investment, to tackle the green and digital transition. with the summer season just around the corner, vaccination and the covid certificate are an opportunity to regain the confidence of travelers and facilitate freedom of movement. however, we need to go a step further and join forces with the commission and the council to establish common european criteria that restore confidence and ensure the safety of citizens when travelling: unifying passenger forms, affordability of pcrs, creating up-to-date information points - both physical and online - at destinations, setting up testing centres at airports and avoiding any unilateral measures on additional restrictions such as quarantines.
mr president, there is a lot of talk about strategic autonomy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. despite the cuts resulting from the budgetary adjustment, the space programme can and must help to strengthen the thriving european aerospace industry, which employs at least 230 000 people. we need to promote eu global leadership in this field. i think that the improvements introduced by parliament in all aspects of the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises in the programme are fundamental in this respect, and will help to strengthen the industry at the grassroots level. when we talk about aerospace, we talk about self-driving cars, we talk about telecommunications, we talk about controlling agriculture, we talk about disaster management. this programme should also help us to be more effective in the great battle of our time: the fight against climate change. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. i therefore wholeheartedly support the agreement reached and congratulate the rapporteur.
madam president, 15 march 2020: germany closes its borders with france, austria, switzerland, luxembourg and denmark due to coronavirus; 5 may 2020: spain imposes a mandatory fourteen-day quarantine on travellers arriving in the country; 20 december 2020: europe cancels flights with the united kingdom due to the spread of a new strain of coronavirus; 22 january 2021: belgium bans all non-essential travel until 1 march; 27 march 2021: spain requires a negative pcr for french arrivals by land. mr commissioner, mrs zacharias, these are just a few examples of the continuing restrictions on freedom of movement that we europeans have been suffering from for over a year now; restrictions that are sometimes uncoordinated, or in most cases without any common criteria, right or wrong, but in most cases with little or no basis in epidemiological criteria; restrictions that have completely destroyed one of the basic pillars of the european union, which is our schengen area; restrictions that directly affect individual rights; restrictions that today, with the approval of the european vaccination certificate, we can simply think of as being part of the past; restrictions that cannot be repeated while we continue to fight the epidemic and, above all, preserve the health of our citizens. ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the certificate in this house today should not be a purely political matter, it should be a moral obligation for all of us who believe in europe and defend it. ladies and gentlemen, the european project, transport, tourism and the economy depend on us, on our approving the european vaccination certificate today.
madam president, after months of confinement, economic recession and - what is worse - loss of human life, it is understandable that society wants and demands a return to normalcy. and the obligation of the institutions is to chart a safe path to this normality. however, i regret to say that the proposal for the certificate we are discussing raises doubts. on the one hand, because it is not based on scientific evidence that it is effective in preventing the transmission of the virus and therefore we run the risk of giving the population a false sense of security. on the other hand, we are opening the door to the standardisation of requests for personal and health data to exercise rights and freedoms, or even to the introduction in some states of similar certificates for the performance of everyday activities. is this the normalcy we seek? the normality we all want has no shortcuts, but it does have a synonym: global vaccination. this is the surest way to protect health, improve the economy and return to normalcy. let's focus all our efforts there.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we've had the coronavirus pandemic for over a year, and yet the feeling you get when you listen to this debate is that we're still not talking about the bottom line. we are debating the details of a forthcoming vaccination certificate, while hundreds of millions of people in europe still do not have access to vaccination. hungary stands out in the eu average. nearly 40 percent of the entire population has been vaccinated, and that's because the hungarian government is getting vaccine from both western and eastern sources, because a vaccine has no worldview, only a degree of effectiveness. european citizens are right to ask why what has worked elsewhere, in israel, in britain, in the united states, cannot work in europe. and let us not forget that with each day of misfortune, citizens' trust in the union is being eroded. so the first thing we need in europe is protection. it requires a vaccine. european citizens rightly expect this from the european union. not the replacements, not the id, but the vaccines. and when it comes to id, you have to accept reality. europe is not in a position to choose between vaccines and to isolate itself from the rest of the world. the only thing that matters is whether a vaccine protects people from infection. the certification decision should be taken accordingly.
mr president, yesterday i received an e-mail about the situation of nurses. the writer of that email said that she and her colleagues have been able to work and function at the top of their game for the last year and a half. personally, this lady is looking forward to her two weeks of summer vacation, but if quarantine after return remains standard, as is the case in many countries now, this nurse will miss this summer vacation as well. after all, working from home is not an option for her, and neither is taking another two weeks off. i am telling you this to make it clear that the european certificate is only the beginning. as long as the current patchwork of quarantine and testing rules continues, we're not going to save the summer. the main rule should be that vaccinated citizens - people with a certificate - do not have to undergo quarantine, unless of course a new variant is emerging. (continued in english)
i have to say, madam president, every day, millions of europeans cross one or more eu borders to work, study or go on holiday. or used to be. the coronavirus pandemic has made it more difficult. it's been necessary to restrict movement to slow the spread. but we look forward to a different outcome. the corona certificate we are voting on today gives us hope that we can soon open more. with a common coronavirus certificate, we will have a tool that will make it easier to assess the risk of infection of each individual entrant, whether you are transporting goods between haderslev and hamburg or you have just returned to malmö from a holiday in mallorca. we ensure that the requirements for the information in the certificate are the same throughout the eu, both in terms of test results and in terms of vaccine status. in return, each country must ensure an effective, comprehensive and, above all, free trial until even more europeans have been vaccinated. so it's the best way to get the infection under control. we do it in denmark. it is possible. the coronation certificate is not here to stay either. the agreement includes a sunset clause, so the legislation automatically expires after 12 months. if in 12 months we still need a corona certificate, we have to pass it again. i hope that in a few months we will again see millions of europeans crossing borders to study, work and go on holiday. and i'm sure the corona certificate is an important step in getting us closer to that.
madam president, i have 60 seconds to address yvan from court-saint-étienne, danielle from liège, and the tens of thousands of belgians and europeans who have been witnessing the human tragedies caused by the health measures for more than a year now: the selfemployed, of course, who see their life's work evaporate, the students who are deprived of their youth, and then our elderly, our parents, who have been almost in prison, deprived of everything and everyone for so many months. to restore freedom of movement, revive the economy, cut short individual initiatives, ensure respect for our data and our fundamental rights, we need the covid certificate. a certificate limited in time to one year, a single document to avoid quarantines based on a test we want free, or antibodies, or vaccine. we shall not convince the refuzniks here, mr commissioner, but this is cardinal, as is the principle of non-discrimination which we engrave in the marble of article 3: possession of a certificate cannot be a precondition for freedom of movement or lead to discrimination. europeans have been suffocating for too long. our urgent duty, mr commissioner, madam secretary of state (who is no longer here), is to offer them this tool before the summer.
madam president, vox would never have considered supporting a vaccination card: the covid-19 certificate is not. last june we asked the commission for a solution to guarantee the free movement of europeans while safeguarding the security of each member state. it didn't. we all know the difficulties faced by a traveller; we have all seen empty airports. we believe that this common form voted on today will help to harmonize, so that analytical tests can be used throughout the union and thus avoid this chaos. our group has proposed as essential conditions that it be called eu covid-19 certificate; that it be temporary; that it be voluntary; that it not impose vaccination; that it be independent of who; that it be free of charge; and that it record complete data on the immunological status of the passenger, which take into account, apart from the vaccine, the absence of disease or having recovered from it, or important point the recognition, through serological analysis, of the natural acquired immunity. each person's situation with coronavirus is different and so it is collected. there is no point in forcing all passengers to undergo constant analytical tests if they are somehow protected and cannot be contagious.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the numbers for tourism in europe are disastrous: the industry has gone back 40 years. you don't count the damage. in my country, italy, in the 2020 summer season alone, there were 22 million fewer arrivals and an 11 billion loss in revenue. if we add to this the losses in manufacturing, made in, agriculture, transport and culture, the figure is likely to double. the economic disparities between the various countries are also widening, and we cannot leave anyone behind. the international monetary fund itself has called for action to prevent this from happening. the green certificate, which we support, will make it possible to travel safely, save the summer season and boost consumption. european citizens, like those of the united kingdom, the united states and japan, will be able to travel without health risks. it is vital to be able to live with the virus, especially considering the lengths, alas, of the vaccination campaign in europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council. safe mobility is the first step towards a gradual return to normalcy, which all citizens ask us to do: but it's not enough. we need to do more and we need to do it fast. we say to the council very clearly: it is now up to national governments. free covid tests will be required to avoid any form of discrimination and digital infrastructure to update electronic health records, respecting vaccine practice. it's going to be crucial to boosting the economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i was pleased to welcome the commission's proposal for a certificate to facilitate the movement of european citizens: not a mandate to vaccinate, even though vaccines are the only effective weapon we have to fight this war, but a tool to enable us to travel safely without endangering the health of others. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we have often criticised, and rightly so, the chaotic, diversified approach of the eu states in their covid containment measures. the certificate must be issued in accordance with the same rules for all member states, but without any further restrictive measures being imposed. we need to work together to send a quick message of clarity and confidence to the citizens, to tell them that it is possible to start travelling again and that, even if it is not a return to the normal life we were used to, europe is starting again, europe is opening up again.
madam president, mr commissioner, the green certificate for many covidpass is a simple solution to open borders, to ensure free movement across europe. the move the citizens have been waiting for. a step we owe them. not just for transport, not just for tourism, not just for those who want to go on holiday, but also for those who travel for work. i think two things are key: first, the certificate must be a one-stop-shop for travel across the european union, without any extra administration, without any extra conditions. if the states start adding new restrictions to it, then the whole idea loses its meaning. the second weakness i see is the diametrically opposed pricing of the tests. some member states provide the test free of charge, others charge eur 300. so i'm going to require that we have all the tests within some price ceiling, and in the case of the certificate tests, the tests should be completely free. we still have a chance to make it to summer, so please, let's make the most of it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal for digital health certificates, like most of the projects developed in the member states, is dangerous. instead of defending our fundamental freedoms, we create a false sense of security by reinforcing the surveillance society. who will benefit from the introduction of these electronic solutions? certainly not public health. the main beneficiaries are it providers and intermediaries looking for health data. parliament has profoundly amended this text to limit the infringement of our fundamental freedoms and the increase in inequalities. we shall see what remains after the trilogue, but the question of the scientific validity of this system persists. public health experts denounce the unreliability, and even the health risks, of this certificate, which does not guarantee the non-transmission of the virus. adopting this project is validating a dangerous and unprecedented social project, it is providing a technical response to a health and political problem, it is making us study in an emergency procedure the digital certificates that have been in preparation for two years. i ask you to accept our amendment rejecting the commission's proposal.
madam president, a year and a half ago we began the battle against an invisible enemy that has taken millions of lives around the world and sunk our economies. to win the battle against covid and its consequences, we need mass vaccination, european funding and the digital covid certificate. the european people's party has defended from the first minute the need for the digital covid certificate to guarantee security and freedom of movement without any kind of discrimination within the european union. ladies and gentlemen, if we believe in europe, we must defend it as an area of free and equal citizens, with equal opportunities. that's why we need this instrument. the certificate should ensure that europeans can travel without restrictions, but with maximum safety, on equal terms, without any new restrictions being added by the member states. we need free testing and free certificates to break down all barriers and discrimination, and we need to ensure that our health data is protected. we must prevent this certificate from being devalued at the european council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, do not fall for the hygienic nationalism. avoid the chaos again. it is our duty to defend freedom and security of movement without discrimination, the single market, to revive the economy and to protect all the sectors that have been hit hard, such as tourism. the present and the future of europe are in our hands. 'health, safety and economy': that must be our road map, and we cannot move from there.
in view of the future implementation of an interoperable vaccination, test and recovery certificate to facilitate free movement during the covid-19 pandemic, called the eu covid-19 certificate, the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament has voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the member states to guarantee universal, accessible, timely and free diagnostic tests in order to guarantee the right to free movement within the union without discrimination for economic or financial reasons in the context of the eu covid-19 certificate. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body of the person who is infected. in addition, the commission is asked to support national authorities in setting up testing centres as well as in deploying an app that helps improve information on the availability and testing centres for covid-19 diagnostics in all member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. once again we are discussing the introduction of a digital tax after the last attempt was buried in secrecy by the european finance ministers, despite the fact that a trillion euros of profits from multinational corporations are shifted to tax havens every year. globally, over 200 billion euros in direct tax revenue is lost. digital businesses can operate without a physical presence; the report rightly calls for the concept of virtual establishments to be established at this point, but it does not dare to use the prevailing system of transfer pricing. the trade in licences and patents in particular offers enormous opportunities for shifting profits, and after the rapporteurs - if you will excuse me, mr schwab - had a little dance around the question of a global minimum tax, they changed their minds on joe biden's proposals. in order to put a stop to the aggressive tax avoidance of highly digitised and multinational corporations, the transfer pricing system needs to be abolished and replaced by a system of corporate taxation. against international tax competition, we are calling for an effective minimum tax rate of 25%. it will not surprise you that we are a bit more ambitious than joe biden. we also call for a capital gains tax to help big tech giants pay the costs of the crisis. we want to get to tax justice now!
mr. president, fellow members of the house. it is in the interest of all of us that a global solution to the problem of tax avoidance and thus digital taxation is finally found, one that enjoys the support of the oecd countries. we are in the middle of an international negotiation process, so we should not do anything that jeopardizes its success. i therefore ask my colleagues not to threaten our partners with unilateral eu action, not to support the adoption of a resolution that generates unnecessary conflicts. if we don't do this, the big online companies will be able to get away with paying taxes again. to overcome the crisis, we need to improve europe's competitiveness, so it is in our common interest not to hinder but to support those countries which have reduced their tax burden to a tolerable level in recent years thanks to the economic whitening. the report inexplicably puts forward opposite aspirations. it wants to use qualified majority voting to take action against countries that help tax competition and thus keep companies in europe. let us say a resounding yes to a digital tax, but no to this report, because i believe it is contrary to europe's competitiveness and interests.
madam president, let me start by saying that, as chair of the subcommittee on tax matters (fisc), i’m particularly pleased to see the first ini report with broad support in the european parliament and clear messages to commission and council. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, andreas schwab and martin hlaváček, for this. let me continue by discussing the new kid on the block, joe biden. joe biden has taken the lead. governments need to invest to sustain the recovery and to make the transition towards a sustainable economy, and that requires resources to finance. that requires multinationals like apple and amazon to pay their fair share, and that requires that we finally end the race to the bottom and trash the tax havens. a pivotal moment for tax justice has arrived now that joe biden has put on the table 21% as a minimum effective tax rate. that would bring in more than eur 100 billion for the european union to invest in education, digital infrastructure, and, of course, sustainable energy. with this support, parliament speaks out in favour of biden’s ambition to stop the race to the bottom. indeed, let europe follow joe biden’s lead – invest and at the same time finance investment by having fair taxation, and support his ambition to end the race to the bottom. let us not waste this pivotal moment, let us not waste this moment of a breakthrough.
i have to say, madam president, we are now witnessing a turning point: after decades of ruinous tax competition, a proposal for an effective minimum tax rate of 21% at international level is now on the table. this proposal by joe biden is a chance to finally put a stop to tax dumping on a global scale. and it's ironic how unclear the support is. from france by bruno le maire in germany, olaf scholz is personally in favour of a 21% tax rate, but is the german federal government also in favour? joe biden deserves all the support for this proposal. and it is right that we in the european parliament should now decide that this minimum tax rate must be high enough to actually stop harmful tax shifting. because the path to tax justice is through working with joe biden's america, not through consensus with tax havens - not even with european tax havens.
president, commissioner, we all agree - i think we all agree - that the big internet companies, the big tech guys, make exorbitant profits and do not contribute fairly to tax revenues. i have two reservations about that statement. the first concern is that it would be much better if we could reach agreement on these digital taxes at oecd level. that excludes reprisals from other countries, for example. the second and most important concern is the unquestionable dominant position - let us say monopoly position - which these companies hold. that's what it's all about, really. this market power means that if a digital tax is imposed, they will pass it on to their customers and adjust their prices and tariffs. it is therefore not true that it will not be the citizen who will pay this tax. unfortunately, he will pay for it. the good news is that commissioner vestager is also very aware of this and is working on it. and that goes to the heart of this case.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the us intervention probably prevented the oecd process from coming to a disappointing end by not meeting the deadline of the end of 2020. the rules of the game really do need to change. the game i am talking about is the game of tax evasion which certain multinationals continue to perpetrate in europe and the world, exploiting loopholes in regulations, the complexity of tax systems and the lack of resources of national administrations. the united states' proposal is based on an objective criterion and we must therefore support it without hesitation in order to achieve a comprehensive and inclusive agreement which is not watered down by the usual positions of the well-known parties. at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, let me express my regret that the initiative is once again coming across the atlantic, despite the fact that europe has been engaged in this issue for a long time. perhaps the problem is that within the union the big countries themselves or certain countries in the union are not convinced of the choice they have to make. the us proposal is therefore welcome. this is a unique opportunity for ambitious tax reform. the alternative, to accept a weak compromise on the taxation of multinationals again, will only further erode public confidence.
madam president, commissioner, we are living through a terrible social and economic crisis, which is a consequence of the pandemic. digitalisation is undoubtedly one of the pillars on which the global economy and the european economy are to be rebuilt. it is therefore crucial that this reconstruction be carried out from the perspective of making europe a highly competitive region and attractive to foreign investors and foreign multinationals who want to operate in our territory and thus help the growth of the european union and generate the much-needed jobs. in this debate - first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr schwab, on the report - i do want to focus on the idea of the importance of working for the competitiveness of the european union and the importance of not putting obstacles in the way of free tax competition between member states. there has been a lot of talk here about the need to establish a minimum rate of corporation tax, and i wonder if we will ever hear about the need to cap the maximum rates that exist in many member states. we must work to ensure that each member state has the capacity to identify the best way to attract these much needed investments. i speak from my own experience: in spain, the google tax has recently been approved, and there was talk that it would never have an impact on the domestic economies, on citizens, on smes... and the reality is that it directly affects smes and citizens, who are the ones who are paying those taxes. let us not lose sight of the fact that we are talking about creating a competitive europe capable of attracting investment, and for that, free tax competition is essential.
madam president, mr borrell, the truth is that the situation is very serious, very difficult, and yet we are fortunate because we have before us a joint resolution which is the best joint resolution we have ever made on russia in this parliament. i hope that we will have resolutions with such truthfulness, such courage, that we will almost wish that what happened to you in moscow could happen to you in tehran, in cuba, in havana or in caracas, so that we can have a majority here for really firm resolutions, with the moral courage to speak the truth as it is said in this resolution. russia is in a moment of weakness and therefore the situation is extremely dangerous. we must stand together, we must stand in solidarity with the czech republic - of course - and we must take action. what is aberrant at the moment is that germany is still going ahead with this shameful nord stream, which must end now. it is the necessary, essential gesture so that, together with this very good resolution, we can begin to take steps as god commands.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, football fans know the figure of the centre-back who spends the game kicking and elbowing, and who gets a little push and falls to the ground and starts asking for a red card for the opponent. this parliament of a european union with a lot of violations of fundamental rights spends its time condemning, among others, the people's republic of china for its alleged violations of human rights, and it takes its hands to its head when the latter, in legitimate reciprocity, imposes sanctions on some of its members. the promoters of this debate want the european union to play the role of the shoemaker i referred to at the beginning. i ask mr borrell, on behalf of the european union, to turn the page on the interference with the sovereignty of the people's republic of china and to make a statement calling for joint work for the mutual benefit of our peoples. the continuation of the current cold war policy does not benefit our peoples, our workers or our companies.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously unacceptable, but it should not surprise us, that china, an autocracy, is aiming its counter-sanctions directly at the very heart of european democracy. an autocracy is in the process of suppressing its opponents, as we see in hong kong. an autocracy has no respect for directly elected members of parliament. so it's really important that we draw clear boundaries now, that we say, "this is what we're going to do in the coming months". think of due diligence, of good cyber security, and above all also of protecting our own investments. and it needs to be repeated? i think almost everyone has. there can be no question of even contemplating ratification of the investment agreement before these sanctions are lifted. after all, there are limits to what we can take, even if the economy and the country we are dealing with is strong and powerful.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is quite clear that we will not be taking the cai the china investment agreement out of the fridge as long as the sanctions are in place. it's gonna stay in there, and i think it's gonna stay in there for a long time. but it is not enough to complain that human rights violations are taking place. we must respond and also strengthen our toolbox. and that is why, commissioner, we urgently need a proposal to deal with chinese subsidies to companies operating in the internal market. commissioner, we need a supply chain law quickly that also makes clear that products produced with forced labour do not enter the internal market. and to the council: we must finally achieve, after nine years, that we have an equivalence in access to public procurement, the ipi. we must do that, and that is why the member states must act. it's not worth the complaining. we also need to get our toolbox ready.
madam president, i think we should first of all congratulate ourselves on having an instrument against human rights violations. and i want to thank mr borrell for the courage to lead and manage a complex situation that has allowed, for the first time, sanctions to be imposed on the chinese authorities for not respecting human rights. china's response has been against this parliament, which has been criticised for its criticism of china, for its criticism of the violation of human rights, which is totally unacceptable and which, without a doubt, prevents any further negotiation of the investment agreement. first, by solidarity with our colleagues; a solid, unwavering and total solidarity. and secondly, because we do not want to buy or sell any commodity that comes from human rights violations. it is therefore essential that the european union has a mandatory due diligence to prohibit such imports.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i’m answering and concluding this on behalf of the vice—president / high representative, mr borrell. i think that the debate today testifies to your continued strong interest in and engagement on eu-china policy and human rights. the measures announced by china against meps, against the subcommittee on human rights, and against the political and security committee and other european individuals and entities are deplorable. one thing is clear: we will not be deterred from standing up for human rights in china or anywhere else, and we will keep calling on china to meet its responsibilities in this regard. several of you referred to the work on the comprehensive agreement on investment. the agreement is one part of our approach to china. it covers many asks that european companies have been raising for decades and it’s a step in the right direction to ensure fair access and fair rules of engagement in the chinese market. that being said, our economic interest will not prevent the eu from continuing to stand up for human rights. we will continue maintaining a multifaceted approach to china. if we want to advance in all areas of interest, including human rights, we need to remain open for dialogue and engagement with china, and we need to avoid being drawn into an escalatory spiral. but the eu must remain firm in the defence of its values and of its citizens in a spirit of unity and solidarity. i hope that i can count on your support to succeed in this approach. our unity is our strength.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i’m pleased to join today’s important debate on behalf of the vice-president / high representative (vp/hr), mr borrell. colombia will soon celebrate the fifth anniversary of its final peace agreement. although we are not yet there, our debate is an opportunity to underline once again the eu’s support to colombia in this process. the end of more than 50 years of conflict, with 9 million victims, is a much—needed piece of good news for the entire world. the colombian peace agreement is cited internationally as a model because of its determination to address the root causes of the conflict and its central focus on the rights and dignity of the victims. all parts of the agreement need to be implemented as they are interrelated and thus necessary to achieve the goals. the commission commends the commitment demonstrated by both the government and farc, who have now disarmed and transitioned to politics with the names of communes. however, important challenges and setbacks persist in this process. the commission’s main concern today is the persistence of violence perpetrated by illegal armed groups and criminal organisations, including the national liberation army (eln) and farc dissidents, who keep fighting over illicit economies. recent months have seen massacres of civilians, a deterioration in the humanitarian situation of local communities in some regions, violence against ex-combatants committed to peace, against social leaders, human rights and environmental defenders, with a particular incidence on women, indigenous and afro-descendant people. this illustrates the fragility of peace. violence must end. the eu has conveyed this concern to the government of colombia through various different channels. among others, the vp/hr spokesperson issued a statement welcoming the recommendations included in the report of the un high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet. the situation is very complex. we know the pandemic is not helping. we can only praise all efforts and progress achieved in colombia, for example in areas such as rural development and the reintegration of former combatants. still, columbia needs faster and additional practical solutions. first, the presence of the state in conflict-affected areas has to be strengthened – both the military and, in particular, civilian presence. socio—economic development of the territories is crucial for sustainable peace. in this exercise, working closely with civil society remains essential. fighting impunity is also key. the transnational justice system is now up and running, but needs to advance. the eu is proud to support the work of these three main institutions: the special jurisdiction for peace, the truth commission and the search unit for the disappeared. of course, stronger efforts are needed by all actors to resume a genuine dialogue for comprehensive peace. here i also call on the eln to stop its campaign of violence, to release all kidnap victims and stop the recruitment of minors. the eu will continue to support all possibilities for dialogue. in europe, we know all too well that peace is a continuous process of rebuilding, renewal, restoration and reconciliation. this is why our support has been unwavering and united since the beginning. overall, the eu has invested over eur 648 million in the peace process in colombia. this includes the eu trust fund, which today stands at eur 130 million, with contributions from 21 member states, the united kingdom and chile, as well as loans pledged by the european investment bank, short-term actions and ongoing programmes. there are 30 projects running on eu contributions to support victims, the development of rural communities and the reintegration of ex-combatants. the continued work of the eu special envoy for peace in colombia, eamon gilmore, appointed in 2015, is an important sign of our long-standing commitment. his contribution has been outstanding, and the vp/hr has asked the special envoy to continue in his role. the eu is not alone in its support for colombia. the international community has been united in supporting the peace process, including the un security council. this commitment is vital for the future of columbia. from europe, we will continue working with colombia in this and all other areas of our relationship, ranging from political dialogue and cooperation in security and defence to trade and sustainable development, biodiversity and climate change. the current challenges are very serious, and we will continue supporting colombia in its efforts by using all the available tools in the most effective way. thank you very much for your attention and i look forward to this exchange of views.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, it will soon be five years since the signing of the peace agreement, which marked the end of an era of terror that besieged the country for more than fifty years and threatened the democratic institutions of that country. the road wasn't easy. the defence of victims' rights, the drug problem, land restitution, rural development programmes and the reintegration of ex-combatants are areas where great progress has been made, and the commitment to the implementation of the agreement has been highlighted. it is true that the violence and the murders of human rights defenders, social leaders and ex-combatants are a scourge that continues to threaten the peace that the colombian government and its people forge day by day and, therefore, it cannot be allowed that criminals belonging to armed groups linked to drug trafficking and illegal mining find support and protection in the dictatorship of nicolás maduro. this dictatorship, which supports criminals and starves its own citizens, has provoked the largest mass exodus in latin america, to which the government of president duque has been able to respond, giving protection to almost two million venezuelans. the european union has a duty to support this strategic partner in its humanitarian mission, so that it can continue to be the greatest bulwark in defence of democracy and the rule of law in the region.
the european parliament has already expressed its support for the peace agreements in colombia, which we, as a parliament, and the international community as a whole, welcomed with great satisfaction and hope. we want to recognize with this debate today and with a resolution tomorrow the progress and the progress made in implementation during this time, but at the same time urge to continue working and call on all parties to fully comply with these agreements. the resolution refers to some key elements on which, without a doubt, further work is needed: transitional justice, which must work with its mechanisms in an independent and autonomous way; rural reform, a key element in the peace agreements, which is intrinsically linked to the fight against poverty and inequality and which is necessary to accompany this peace; the development of statehood throughout colombian territory, necessary to guarantee security. at the same time, we do not want to forget today - and we strongly condemn them - the murders of social and environmental leaders and former combatants in recent years, a situation which has worsened especially in recent times. with data from the united nations: in 2020, 133 social leaders and 73 ex-combatants. there is no complete democracy without a guarantee by the public authorities of the safety of those who participate in it. europe wants to continue to walk hand in hand with the colombian people in the implementation of these peace agreements and wants to continue to walk with colombia, as a partner in the region, to work for these peace agreements and on many other issues: the fight against climate change, multilateralism, digitalisation... we're ready, let's not waste this opportunity.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, journalists david beriain and roberto fraile have been killed in burkina faso, along with environmental activist rory young, for pursuing the truth. they're trying to kill our most critical consciousness. i express my solidarity with his family and friends and with real journalism. this dramatic prologue gives more meaning to the resolution i am presenting: supporting politically and economically the peace process in colombia is the best way to celebrate its fifth anniversary, because the citizenship that advances towards peace is much better than colombia at war. i am grateful for the attitude and contributions of all those who have negotiated this resolution, which values what unites us: peace. we have talked, we have empathised and we have agreed. the meeting between iván duque and rodrigo londoño on 10 march under the auspices of the united nations is a valuable step in that direction. the process has its shadows: the attacks that continue to affect human rights defenders, ex-combatants or social leaders. it is urgent to investigate the crimes, punish those responsible and dismantle the criminal organisations, especially those linked to drug trafficking, which require a local but also a global response. but colombia, above all, has lights. he's an example of truth, justice and reparation for the victims. the agricultural reform, the replacement of illegal crops, the restitution of land and the reintegration of ex-combatants are progressing. it must be strengthened by inclusive economic development, in which the colombian state, local communities, the private sector, civil society and, of course, partners such as the european union, which we support with deeds, play a key role in this commitment to peace and coexistence. the country's welcome of 1,800,000 venezuelan exiles in the midst of a global pandemic demonstrates the country's deep-rooted generosity, solidarity and empathy, values that peace needs to reach a safe harbour. this is why this agreement is much more than a hope: it is the method which will put an end to the effects of fifty years of war and violence.
before we continue the debate, i would like to give the floor to mr lópez aguilar, who will speak for referral back to committee with a view to interinstitutional negotiations on the digital green certificate for union citizens and the digital green certificate for third-country nationals, before the second round of voting today, in accordance with rule 59 (4). mr lópez aguilar has the floor for a minute.
rapporteur. – mr president, i’ll be truly short because my only point here is that after the announcement of the vote we had on the two files relating to the initiative taken by the commission on the digital green certificate, i hereby request that those two files be referred back to the competent committee, which is the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, precisely to start up immediately, the sooner the better, the interinstitutional negotiations with the council.
these motions will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission proposal. (the president declared the results of the votes)
we now continue our debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the 'fifth anniversary of the peace agreement in colombia' (2021/2643 (rsp)).
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the colombia peace agreement is one of the most ambitious and complex peace agreements. it represents a huge effort to put decades of brutal violence and suffering behind us. that is why it is important that this parliament renews its support for this agreement today, on the eve of its fifth anniversary, acknowledges the progress that has been made thanks to the work of institutions, ex-combatants, civil society, indigenous groups, etc., and calls on the parties to fulfil all their commitments. but we also have to say loud and clear that there are situations that concern us, in particular the climate of increasing violence in which the peace agreement is being implemented, with record numbers of human rights and environmental defenders being killed in recent months. it should be noted that one in every two murders of human rights defenders in the world today occurs in colombia. and we are also concerned about the slow pace of socioeconomic reforms, and in particular the comprehensive rural reform, which is key to fighting inequality. and these aspects must be noted, because they can call into question the achievement of other advances. we in the greens/efa group have tried to improve the joint resolution by adding points that are important to us, such as the need to better protect human rights and environmental defenders, indigenous leaders and former combatants committed to peace, and the need to advance gender policies and programmes that protect and recognise the role of women in peacebuilding. in a peace process, nothing should ever be taken for granted. all parties must help to consolidate peace in colombia and move forward together, also with the help of the european union, towards the final objective: a fairer country that leaves violence, all violence, behind once and for all.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i was saying this afternoon that thanks to the humiliation of borrell in moscow, we have a magnificent resolution on russia. i do not know what has to happen for us to have resolutions on our sister ibero-american countries of the same mind, that have the same love for the truth and do not hide, as colombia unfortunately does, many of the truths. we can say great things, magnificent things, about a country that is the neighbor of hell that is venezuela, a country that has always defended its democracy successfully and has done so until today, and that struggles not to end up the same, in a communist nightmare like venezuela, with a drug mafia in the government and the population fleeing by the millions. that is why it is so sad that there is this kind of moral equation, with a resolution in which it seems that the other groups are morally superior to a democratic government that has incorporated some narcoterrorists into a peace process that the majority rejected - let us remember this, because that is another of the truths that are hidden - and that, with great effort, colombian democracy is doing. it is doing so with brutal external pressure, with two million venezuelans fleeing the nightmare and the hell that has been regularized, and with a few battles by the farc, who continue to work to destabilize the country and create that hell there. that's why we didn't sign that resolution, because it's unfair.
in the name of the left group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, five years have passed since the signing of the agreements which created tremendous enthusiasm among the people, among a people which had been engaged in open warfare for more than half a century; enthusiasm which turned to frustration when the government of duque, the uncritical heir to the narco-president uribe, took the decision to openly sabotage them. since he came to power, the breach of the accords has been systematic. and the situation of violence continues. the constant killings of signatories of the accords, of social leaders and human rights defenders continue. the fear, the threat, the refusal to move towards peace in the search for a political solution continue. uribism seeks to return the ex-combatants to the sierra, because it needs an internal enemy in order to maintain its authoritarian policy and its mercenaries and paramilitaries by imparting it to bullets. this resolution contains serious falsehoods, falsehoods which help it in this objective, falsehoods such as that the combatants did not want to give the routes of drug trafficking when they do not know them and, therefore, this is not part of the agreements. it is not true that they did not deliver the goods: everything was done within the deadline and this was verified by the government of president santos and by the un itself. this resolution has aspects which turn victims into victimizers and gives ammunition to the extreme right, and this might be expected from the reactionary bloc or the conservative bloc, but i hope that the rest of this parliament will continue to be on the right side.
mr president, it will soon be five years since the signing of the so-called peace accords between the colombian government and the farc to end long cycles of violence and suffering. this is a very ambitious process, the implementation of which will inevitably require a long period of implementation. the colombian constitutional court estimated it at fifteen years. there are many steps to be taken, from reintegration of ex-combatants and compensation for victims to major reforms in rural areas. all members of this house are aware of the full readiness and transparency of the colombian authorities and their embassy in brussels to inform us of the progress of the peace process. we know that there is still much to be done. a major obstacle is the persistence of violence by the so-called eln, also by dissidents from the farc and other armed groups. last month, president duque met with the now communist party chairman rodrigo londoño, leader of the former farc. this meeting demonstrates the will to accelerate the implementation of the plan and to take measures in order to improve the protection of ex-combatants and social activists who are being subjected to serious attacks. the international community, and in particular the european union, must continue to contribute to the european peace fund. peace requires not only efforts at the political, judicial and security levels, but also at the economic level, to implement, for example, rural development plans, which also have an important ecological and sustainability and inclusion component. i think it is fair to highlight this environmental commitment of colombia in a chamber so aware of the climate threat.
mr president, we are debating here today a resolution on the fifth anniversary of the signing of the peace agreement between the government of colombia and the farc, which brought an end to more than fifty years of armed conflict in the country; an agreement which marked a turning point in the contemporary history of colombia and the starting point on a path full of risks, challenges, difficulties and threats. a path whose destination was uncertain but possible: peace. and it must be acknowledged today that colombia has made great progress along this path, with too much slowness in implementing the points of the agreement, especially in the persistence of violence against ex-combatants, human rights defenders and the civilian population. but colombia, despite the difficulties, is no longer in the daily news because of terrorism or drug trafficking, but because it leads the region in its commitment to the environment or for setting a world example in refugee management, granting almost two million venezuelan refugees temporary protection status. there's a long way to go. the implementation objectives were set for a period of 15 years, but colombia has taken this path in an irreversible way, and it is therefore necessary for europe to renew its political commitment, its institutional, commercial and financial collaboration, in order to achieve one objective: stable and definitive peace in colombia.
mr. president, colombia is facing a humanitarian emergency due to violence. more than 1 000 defenders and social leaders killed, thousands of displaced, massacres are increasing only in 2021, 32 with more than 116 victims, etc. these killings occur in a specific context: the lack of implementation of the peace agreement signed five years ago. people who are at the heart of the historical conflict are especially murdered: peasants, indigenous communities, social leaders... and they are murdered because the colombian government and state are allowing impunity for these crimes. the latest report from the un verification mission demonstrates a lack of effort on key policies. the european union has financed part of the funds for the implementation of the peace agreement and must be strongly involved. on the one hand, by demanding effort from the government in implementing and financing the key components of the peace agreement and the land reform projects; and on the other, by acting responsibly in linking trade policy to respect for human rights. we need binding rules for european transnational companies abroad to avoid situations like the one that is happening in the port of buenaventura.
mr president, thank you for your presence, commissioner johansson. ibero-america must be one of the top priorities of the european union. this has been stated on many occasions by mr borrell himself. i therefore deeply regret that you have decided to be absent when we speak of latin america in parliament. in politics, honourable members, priorities are not only shown, they are demonstrated, and today mr borrell has shown his scant interest in such important allies as colombia. today we are celebrating the fifth anniversary of the signing of the peace agreement in colombia and we are doing so at a particularly difficult time for the country because of the effects of the pandemic; a time, moreover, in which colombia is making a huge effort to welcome and protect the nearly two million venezuelan immigrants who have fled their country. and despite all this, the colombian government has continued to fully implement the agreement, demonstrating its commitment to the future of peace in the country, a commitment widely recognised not only by the european union but also, and especially, by the united nations. i therefore congratulate the government of mr duque on the great work it has done in the last five years. however, i believe that we cannot limit our relationship with colombia to the monitoring of agreements. europe and colombia have a much deeper and more diverse relationship. so now we need to continue to move forward in areas such as trade and investment, creating jobs and shared economic opportunities.
mr. president, colombia faces multiple challenges: the drug trafficking and illegal gold mining mafias, both with the support of venezuela; the illegal mining concentrated in gold, which negatively impacts the environment; the migration crisis, with the arrival of almost two million venezuelans fleeing hunger, which affects security, education, work, housing and health; and, finally, covid-19. in violation of the peace agreement, the farc has not handed over its treasure or provided information on the routes and financing of drug trafficking, which it protected yesterday and which today funds criminal groups that kill human rights defenders, indigenous leaders and former combatants. i want to emphasize that the responsibility for these deaths lies with the killers. despite this, colombia has responded with the temporary protection status for venezuelan refugees, the reintegration of over 13,000 ex-combatants and a continuing struggle for peace. colombia is a brother country and a key to stability in the region which deserves and needs our support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the start of the peace talks in 2012, around 1 000 social leaders and human rights activists have been killed in colombia by paramilitary gangs and armed agents. at this point it is important that this parliament reaffirms its support for the peace agreement between the colombian government and the farc-ep guerrillas. it is fundamental for the well-being of the colombian people to continue the historical process undertaken in colombia from a perspective of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. and at the same time we want to show our concern for the situation of human rights activists. this parliament must urge the colombian government to protect them, as well as the entire colombian political opposition, so that they can carry out their mandate without endangering their lives and those of their community. the european union should continue to provide economic and other support for the development of each of the parties to the agreement and urge the colombian government to resume dialogue with the eln. the colombian people need more than ever international support, support for the peace process and its development with full guarantees.
mr president, in november it will be five years since the signing of the peace agreement and i think we must appreciate the progress that has been made in all its terms by a democracy with many difficulties. it is true that the starting position was complex, but this cannot in any way make us forget another part which is also very important and which must be emphasized. we cannot have data, as the un verification mission itself has pointed out, with hundreds and hundreds of people killed every year. i mean, we are even in a situation today, worse than before the signing of the peace agreement in some figures. former combatants are being killed, indigenous defenders are being killed, environmental defenders are being killed... finally, this has to end, because there is an indispensable premise for a peace agreement, which is that one of the parties does not disappear. because peace is a lasting, just, stable peace... not the peace of the graveyard. so i want to reiterate to the colombian government its obligation as a state to defend people who are being persecuted, threatened and even killed. that's what we're playing for, a lasting peace.
mr president, commissioner johansson, after five years we are finally going to discuss the situation in colombia again. in latin america, not everything is venezuela. five years after the peace agreement, we are alarmed by the attacks and deaths of human rights and environmental defenders, especially in the cauca region, where there are conflicts over land and water projects, such as the ituango project. we have invested a lot of effort in peace, over 128 million euros in the trust fund alone, and we will continue to do so through the new cooperation instrument, the ivdci. but five years later, only 4% of the rural reform has been implemented. we need to improve accountability, provide more control mechanisms and involve civil society in the monitoring of funds, and make progress in the implementation of gender-sensitive initiatives. and we must demand this from the colombian government. we need to put the focus on the colombian government. peace must be inclusive, it must include women, indigenous communities, people of african descent and lgbtq people. the protection of human rights and environmental defenders must be strengthened.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is an extremely important debate. this regulation will make it harder for terrorists to exploit the internet to spread fear, violence and terror. this regulation will make it more difficult for terrorists to abuse the internet, to recruit online, to incite attacks online, to glorify their atrocities online. with this regulation, we take european action against terrorist activities online: action that is quick, cross—border and compulsory. quick: member states will be able to order internet providers to take down terrorist content within the hour. cross-border: member states will be able to issue orders to take down terrorist content hosted by any service provider anywhere in the european union. compulsory: providers must carry out these demands and pay fines if they don’t. proportionate fines: small companies must not fall victim to terrorists abusing their systems. i’m sure you all remember the christchurch attacks: 60 minutes and 55 seconds of mass murder broadcast live to the world. some platforms still have copies of that attack online. what’s worse, animated versions aimed at children keep appearing on videogaming platforms. that too can soon be taken down in the whole of europe within the hour. as we speak, jihadi groups are calling for attacks online: calling on followers to exploit political unrest during the pandemic, to kill people and damage property. that too, soon, can be taken down in the whole of europe within the hour. with this regulation, we will strike a blow against terrorists. without online manuals to tell you how, it’s harder to make bombs. without flashy propaganda videos, it’s harder to poison the minds of young people. without streaming attacks online, it’s harder to inspire copycat attacks. it’s difficult to measure: people are not radicalised, bombs not made, attacks not carried out. we may never be able to count how many, but this regulation will save lives, and we can be proud of this result. this regulation strikes a major blow against terrorists, but it’s only one of many steps in the fight against terrorism, offline and online. in december 2020, i launched our counterterrorism agenda. besides fighting terrorists online, we will, among other things, boost european police cooperation and information exchange, make it more difficult for foreign fighters to enter the european union undetected, protect people in public spaces like churches, mosques, synagogues, stadiums and public transport. this regulation upholds our values and fundamental rights by fighting terrorists who attack our freedoms and our democracies, by putting safeguards in place, and by limiting removal of content to what is clearly illegal. we will take down terrorist content and uphold freedom of expression. i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, patryk jaki, and also all the shadow rapporteurs for these results. a lot of work has gone into this. i would like to thank the parliament for your support. thank you for making this regulation a reality, and thank you for the very good cooperation. as a society, we are facing the enormous challenge of digital change, which fundamentally affects the way we live and the way we work. it affects our security and our privacy. we must face this challenge as law—makers and as a union. in december, the commission launched the digital services act to foster online markets and to protect fundamental rights online. we must also give law enforcement the right rules and tools to fight crime and terrorism in the digital age. it’s up to us now to find agreements on child sexual abuse online, our short—term and future long-term proposals on detecting and reporting child sexual exploitation online, and to find agreements on e—evidence – 85% of evidence is electronic. to fight crime and terrorism, law enforcement needs timely access to cross—border evidence. to find agreement on data retention, we need to look at possibilities in line with eu law so that digital evidence of crimes or leads to investigations do not accidentally disappear. to find agreement on encryption, police must be able to gain effective access to encrypted electronic evidence when they are granted the legal authorisation to do so. to make agreements on artificial intelligence, law enforcement should use the full potential of ai to find missing children and very dangerous criminals, to prevent terrorist attacks and to respond to the malicious use of technology by criminals. all of these policies are as sensitive as they are important. the successful negotiating result achieved on this file – the terrorist content online – gives me the confidence that we will also find agreement on the commission’s other proposals on digital law enforcement. so let this result inspire us together to make europe safe for everyone.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, samuel paty, falsely accused of islamophobia, was lynched on the net before being beheaded at the door of his school. last friday a french police officer, mother of two, was murdered in rambouillet by a terrorist who had consumed large amounts of jihadist propaganda on the web before his crime. as the commissioner recalled, two years ago, a white supremacist in christchurch broadcast on facebook the massacre of muslim worshippers at the al noor mosque. these and many other cases bring us to the huge problem of the dissemination of terrorist content on the net. sometimes it is a matter of exposing and spreading the crime itself while it is being committed; other times it is a matter of fuelling the processes of radicalization, from which new terrorists will emerge, or, in paty's case, the networks were used to spread the threat and incite murder. that is why the regulation we are about to adopt must make a clear difference in terms of improving efficiency, cooperation and the continued effort to fight terrorism on this front, the online world, which we know is essential in the strategy of terrorists. it has taken time and a lot of effort, and i would like to emphasize the role of our rapporteur in this regulation. but the use of the net for terrorist purposes, which is a phenomenon without frontiers, must be met by cooperation also without frontiers. we have struck a good balance between new cooperation instruments and procedures and the necessary safeguards of fundamental rights. withdrawal orders - explained here - are a crucial innovation in crossborder counter-terrorism cooperation. it is clear that nothing can replace the action on the ground of the military forces, the security forces, the intelligence services, the judges... but it is also essential to prevent terrorism from spreading its shadow, from polluting minds and from glorifying criminals.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, today we are concluding a really intense, arduous work which has occupied a significant part of our time and responsibilities for many, many months. today we are concluding and ratifying a positive interinstitutional agreement, which is beneficial for europe and which will undoubtedly improve the rights of rail passengers. i would like to congratulate you, mr liberadzki, personally and on behalf of my group, on your excellent work, on your cooperation and, above all, on your ambition to reach an agreement which will really mean real change. we all said at the beginning of these negotiations that stagnation was not an option and with this agreement we have shown that we want to move towards better protection of rights, while also taking account of the sector, of industry. this parliament has succeeded in improving fundamental aspects of passenger rights which will have a direct impact on the millions of citizens who make daily use of this means of transport, the railway. ladies and gentlemen, we have just had a very difficult year for the transport sector as a whole, a year in which millions of cancellations of trips have occurred throughout the geography of europe. so i am fully aware of the discomfort and havoc that the pandemic has caused to travellers, who have had their trips cancelled - some, even today, have not been able to get their money back - but i am also fully aware of the millions of losses, the total pressure and the total stop of passenger transport that the pandemic has meant for operators, and the general difficulties for the industry. that is why the revision and strengthening of the rules on travellers' rights, as they are set out in this regulation, is more necessary than ever. i simply want to say that i hope that this regulation is just the beginning of the many reforms that we have to make here in parliament, together with the council, together with the commission, and that we must do them together to make ourselves meaningful, precisely to stand by the travellers, but never to leave the industry in the sector behind. if we do this together, we can be happy, as this agreement has been: a comprehensive agreement, generous and, above all, beneficial for travellers, for the sector and for industry.
madam president, commissioner, this agreement is further proof of the commitment of the european institutions to rail, a mode of transport essential for socioeconomic and territorial cohesion, which is undoubtedly reinforced by the new green pact. we started the year by declaring 2021 as the european year of rail and this week, with this agreement, we are taking a step forward to further democratize rail travel and increase its attractiveness: more rights for people with disabilities or reduced mobility, who are guaranteed an assistance service with a shorter notice period; more rights for all travellers who suffer delays or cancellations, who will be offered alternative routes, reimbursement and assistance for accommodation when necessary; a clear commitment to sustainable mobility, as there will be more space for bicycles, which we hope will also boost more sustainable tourism alternatives; and an obligation for companies to increase their combined ticket offer, which will give confidence and encourage travellers. congratulations, comrade liberadzki, for your hard work on such an important dossier.
madam president, in 2019 almost eighteen million children were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in europe, and it is to be expected that after the pandemic many more will be; children who do not have access to adequate housing and receive insufficient and segregated education, poor health care or poor nutrition. i live in madrid, do you know that, in the oecd, madrid is the region that adds the most to its poor pupils after turkey? that there are 1,800 children who have been without electricity for over six months in the royal canyon? this proposal for a child guarantee is absolutely necessary and must be accompanied by a strategy to combat poverty which goes beyond the action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, the directives on pay transparency and the minimum wage, because when parents are poor, so are sons and daughters, a review of the barcelona objectives and a european care pact guaranteeing public services. it is unfortunate that poverty is still the only legacy that many people in europe receive.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, for the last seven years, we in the s&d group have advocated the need to tackle the levels of poverty and social exclusion of the younger generation. it took us a long time to make the step, to reach a consensus, but we finally understood that investing in children is investing in stability and prosperity. the child guarantee, together with the youth guarantee and the fair minimum wage directive, is a key tool in ensuring the well-being of present and, above all, future generations. and implementing it effectively means not only ensuring access to basic services inside and outside school for millions of european children, it goes much further: it means breaking the vicious circle of poverty and the transmission of lack of opportunities between generations. in short, it means avoiding another lost generation in europe. we need social europe now more than ever.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs who have negotiated this regulation. thanks to their work, the european union has a fraud prevention programme for the period 2021-2027. i would like to highlight two particularly important achievements of the negotiations: firstly, the programme will have an independent, objective evaluation, with an appropriate timetable and with indicators that will help to assess its performance, thus fulfilling one of the objectives of any european programme; secondly, there will be greater transparency, thanks to the publication of the interim and annual reports. according to official olaf figures, it is estimated that fraud affects 0.2% of the total european budget, which means about eur 300 million a year. in addition to the financial impact, which is of great concern to us in the fight against fraud and corruption, the credibility of the european union is also at stake in the eyes of the citizens, who are confident that the european budget is being spent properly and that it is not falling into the hands of criminal organisations. the european union has effective institutions and tools for combating fraud: the court of auditors, olaf and, from this year, also the european public prosecutor's office, which will be able to prosecute crimes against the financial interests of the union, as well as europol, eurojust, programmes such as the edes early detection and exclusion system or databases such as arachne. but we must continue to work to improve this whole ecosystem, so that there is total coordination between them and so avoid that a single euro is lost. to this end, the union must invest and provide sufficient resources, both for qualified or specialised staff in the fight against fraud and for technical equipment and advanced investigative tools using artificial intelligence, big data, etc., which allow for effective monitoring of crimes and the identification of fraudsters, even when they move from one member state to another, something for which cooperation between member states will be crucial and indispensable. we are pleased that the new programme will fund specialised training and the exchange of information and good practice between anti-fraud authorities across europe and that access to secure information systems will be facilitated. we must do everything possible to make the fight against fraud at european level really effective.
author. mr president, commissioner, europe has been one of the regions of the world most affected by covid-19. europe was one of the regions where the virus spread most rapidly and virulently, with the health, economic, but especially human, results that we all know. therefore, we must not fall into this resolution into the temptation of some to politicize it for their own benefit to point out leaders or rulers of any country, especially if we only do it with one, for their statements or decisions, but we must use it to denounce denial statements or that minimize the severity of the pandemic. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot give lessons on pandemic management to any country or region of the world, because we have made countless mistakes, the result of both our ignorance and poorly planned decisions, coordinated by our governments. we cannot teach anyone when ten of the countries with the highest death rates per 100 000 inhabitants are european. but we can and must share experiences, knowledge and lessons learned through greater cooperation between the european union and the latin american countries. and above all, we can and must strengthen our collaboration in the procurement of vaccines through the covax mechanism, guaranteeing equitable and equal access to all citizens. finally, we can send two powerful messages: that what is happening in latin america is a priority for the european parliament and that the region as a whole must see the european institutions as a respectful partner who wants to strengthen, reinforce and deepen the common mechanisms of cooperation, collaboration and governance; a partner and strategic ally with whom to jointly face the geopolitical, social, economic, environmental and also health challenges of the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, latin america is one of the regions in the world that has been hardest hit by the covid—19 pandemic. what started as a health crisis is becoming a social and human crisis, with particular consequences for women. in the countries of the northern triangle, gender—based violence continues to drive migrants out of central america, and the situation has only become worse due to the pandemic. the economic crisis and lockdowns contribute to the drastic increase in violence against women, rape and femicide. the situation in honduras is extremely worrying. the country has the highest rates of femicide in latin america and the trend is worsening. 2021 shows a record high of femicides in the first months, and during only 48 hours in february, four women were brutally killed. keyla martínez was one of them. she was presumably killed in police custody after being detained for breaching a coronavirus curfew. regrettably, impunity and corruption are widespread, which contribute to this unprecedented wave of violence and femicide. i am also alarmed by the fact that several countries in latin america are lagging behind the schedule of planned deliveries of vaccines under the covax initiative. globally, nobody is safe until everybody is safe. it is very disappointing to see that the eu is behaving so eu—centred. there is potential to scale up vaccine production in latin america, but what is missing is the sharing of patents, technology and know—how. in that regard, i call on the eu member states to support the temporary waiver of intellectual property rights for covid—19 vaccines and medicines. finally, i would like to remind the eu of the long—standing links with latin america. especially in difficult times of crisis, the eu has to play a strong role in supporting democracy, human rights and equality.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 pandemic has hit latin america and the caribbean harder than any other region in the world. it is the most vulnerable groups, such as indigenous peoples and historically marginalized communities, that are most affected. last week, the last of the indigenous juma died: a culture and a language that the world has lost forever. in brazil, there's a shortage of sedatives, and the intubated patients are tied up. they beg us not to let them die, says a nurse who fights daily on the front lines. we must strengthen our support to the region, in particular by increasing production and distribution capacity within the kovacs initiative and by including in its programme a specific target of vaccination for indigenous populations. but it 's not enough . we also need to seriously consider whether to promote open, non-exclusive licensing, which includes technology transfer, in order to ensure that the vaccines and technologies that are essential to countering covid are available and accessible to as many people as possible. the decisions we have to make must be up to the challenge. otherwise history will not be generous to those who, in one of the darkest moments of recent years, put the "god of money" before the health of the people in difficulty.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the virus knows no borders. every government on this planet has made their mistakes in the face of an unknown virus. it is time to show solidarity, to invest more in research, to have medical equipment available to everyone and to everyone. in latin america, 8.4 percent of the population has been most affected and 20 percent of the deaths have been caused. we know that it is a region with aggravated inequalities. the european union, where some 6.5 per cent of the population has access to more than 50 per cent of the planet's social spending, has also suffered, and here too we have member states with mortality rates far higher than those in latin america. so we cannot have a paternalistic attitude here. our attitude must be one of solidarity, and the european union, which has the resources, has the obligation to do more in relation to latin america. it is our obligation and we have the funds for it, we have the knowledge, we have the human resources. this is the time for us to join forces, it is the time for solidarity. it is also time to criticise the deniers, those who did not intervene in time, but our main task is to show solidarity, especially with the victims, and to act in the interests of the population.
mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the european parliament, i express my solidarity with all the victims of covid-19. in the case of latin america, the devastating impact of the pandemic has been felt with almost 24 million infections and 650 000 deaths. the health picture is compounded by the critical situation in some countries, where the official figures reported do not correspond to reality and are aggravated by social and political discrimination in the vaccination process. it is also worth noting the denial of the gravity of the situation by some leaders of the countries with the largest populations. the european union and its member states have supported, and will continue to support, the latin american continent in this fight against the pandemic. the union's commitment has been seen through the response of team europe to the crisis and the financial contribution to covax, amounting to eur 1 billion. but let us remember that until we are all safe, no one is safe.
mr president, commissioner, latin america has been ravaged by the pandemic. the pandemic has spread around the globe, but it has taken a dramatic turn in latin america. the devastating effects of the pandemic have undoubtedly been compounded by political errors and by truly negative views, as is the case in brazil, but there is one point we have to make clear. at the moment, the european union is obliged to help the countries of latin america, in particular venezuela and brazil, and i would like to draw attention to the situation in venezuela, which is catastrophic and which few people talk about for ideological reasons. there is no ideology when we are talking about the pandemic crisis that is going on all over latin america, and that is the key point. we must cooperate with our latin american brothers without ideological prejudice at this time.
mr president, while much of the focus has turned to the vaccine rollout in europe, the pandemic still rages on, with increasingly worrying new infection rates and deaths in other parts of the world. a number of countries in latin america have been gripped by another wave, exasperated by the fact that the region has little access to vaccinations. in brazil, for example, the situation has been dire since march. but latin america more broadly, along with india now, is the globe’s hardest hit region as declared by the world bank. despite having less than 10% of the world’s population, latin america has accounted for about 30% of the world’s deaths from covid—19 – three million in total. a global pandemic needs global cooperation. otherwise we risk elongating the pandemic, resulting in the unfortunate and heartbreaking loss of further life. we must do all we can to help the poor unfortunate people of latin america.
mr president, i would like to thank you. latin america started this year off unflatteringly as the most unequal region in the world. the covid-19 pandemic has exposed further divisions in societies and has exacerbated and deepened them. vulnerable groups including women, girls, the elderly, minorities and indigenous peoples have been hit the hardest by the progress of the pandemic, threatening the progress made in recent years in the field of health and the sustainable development goals. this is exacerbated by the behaviour of certain political leaders, including president bolsonaro of brazil, who, instead of taking effective action, are aggravating the situation by spreading false propaganda. i am convinced that we need a global response if we are to successfully fight this pandemic. priority must now be given to rebuilding multilateral institutions and delivering global responses. the eu and the international community must step up efforts to strengthen the covax initiative, so that more vaccine doses are made available to entire populations, including migrants.
mr president, commissioner, no region of the world should feel totally safe, even if it achieves so-called 'herd immunity', while in other areas the pandemic continues to wreak havoc. in this case, solidarity, empathy and measures to support those who have less, besides being an ethical and moral requirement, are an obligation and a need for everyone. as regards latin america, we are obliged to do much more than speed up vaccination campaigns. the pandemic offers us a unique opportunity to help all states in the region improve their health systems, make them more inclusive and integrate into the care network indigenous communities, quasi-nomadic populations forced by political or economic circumstances to migrate or people who are simply outside the system for economic or administrative reasons. we are strengthening the covax mechanism, but we must encourage, by transferring technology, that more vaccines are manufactured in the region. let's collaborate in the fight against fake news and denialism; actions like bolsonaro's help the virus to kill. finally, let us extend the debt suspension mechanisms and the measures which enable these states to improve their liquidity, restructure their debt and address their own next generation with possibilities.
mr. president, latin america, the region most affected by covid-19 and the most unequal, but, yes, from this parliament we must put the focus on brazil, the second country with the largest number of victims in the world thanks to bolsonaro's irresponsibility, with negationist messages that have made any health coordination difficult; a clear example of how irresponsible politicians harm not only their country, but the entire region. we welcome the efforts made by team europe, with 2.5 billion euros as of january, but they represent only 6% of the total. if we want to respond as a global actor, we must update these figures and not respond to rebuild latin america with pre-pandemic figures, in which latin america represents 6%, compared to neighborhood, with 30%, and africa, with 17%. latin america is the region that we are helping the least and the most affected. because of the covax shortage, other players like china and russia are steadily penetrating latin america with values very different from the europeans. we also appreciate the efforts of donor countries, such as spain, which is donating 7.5 million vaccines to the region. but it is time to consider other solutions, such as the flexibility of patents or compulsory licences, as our partners in other parliaments, such as parlasur, are demanding.
mr president, it is clear that we will only be able to defeat the current pandemic if we ensure that all citizens in all countries have access to the vaccine. however, this is not the case at present. it is therefore important to pool all the technical, political and industrial capacities to put an end to this injustice. it is a question of patents, but it is above all the capacity for industrial manufacture which is not within the reach of everyone. the role of europe in this case is crucial. the covax initiative will be judged on its ability to move the lines in this area. progress has been made, europe is already spending a certain amount on this and we must continue along this path. to believe that we are immune to the virus by vaccinating only citizens of rich countries would at best give us false security. it is a matter of good will on the part of all, including the leaders of some latin american countries, who have, to say the least, allowed things to drag on, which i would define as an unspeakable irresponsibility.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, on behalf of high representative and vice—president borrell, i welcome this very important debate on the covid—19 pandemic situation in latin america. indeed, in their contributions to this debate members have outlined the very difficult, indeed harrowing, situation on the ground, the lives lost and the rapid spread of infection. this debate is also a recognition of the strategic importance of latin america to the european union. indeed, the priorities that you have identified are in line with those that guide our actions: social inclusion, the fight against inequalities, sustainable economic recovery, governance, security, migration and regional integration, including of course the green and the digital transformations. the commission and the external action service are working intensively to formulate the eu’s cooperation with the americas region for the coming period 2021—2027. the areas that i’ve just mentioned are those that will be covered by our programming. there is an increased awareness of the importance of all our transatlantic relations, but there is still much that needs to be done. not only do we need to tackle poverty, we also need to build prosperity. we need to help ensure that every voice can be heard, including especially those of women, girls and indigenous peoples. this year, 2021, is a critically important year to deliver. we all know that the pandemic has had a particularly devastating impact on latin america, cutting across national boundaries and political affiliations. this is when partnership really matters. the eu’s response has been to redouble our efforts in engaging with all the countries of latin america. after two ministerial meetings last year, we are now working on a summit—level meeting to revitalise our dialogue. at the same time, we have transformed our practical cooperation. through team europe, more than eur 2.4 billion has been devoted to latin america and the caribbean. through covax, the eu has helped ensure 38 million vaccines for 30 countries across the americas through international cooperation. of course more is needed, but i would like to stress that, from the very beginning, the european union has advocated for a multilateral approach to ensure the provision of vaccines everywhere. the eu has been a key initiator with the who and international health organisations of the act—accelerator, the global framework to accelerate the research and development of covid—19 vaccines, tests and treatments, and a top contributor from the very start to covax, the vaccines pillar of act—accelerator. in support of that, we launched the global coronavirus response to help mobilise the necessary resources. close to eur 16 billion so far has been raised for vaccines, diagnostics, therapeutics and to support the global economic recovery. the european commission is ready to facilitate the donation or resale of vaccines procured by eu member states through the eu advance purchase agreements with producers or transfer of options for vaccines that become more widely available, in particular through covax. in recent days, we have seen how the news cycle has shifted away from latin america to the latest epicentre of the crisis, and this is why it is important for the eu and for this house to maintain its attention on latin america in the months ahead. it is more important than ever to build cooperation through lasting agreements and therefore build a better future for all our citizens.
author. mr president, i would like to denounce and condemn the failure of the european external action service and the high representative himself to condemn the illegal detention of the former constitutional interim president of bolivia, mrs jeanine áñez, and 15 other members of her government. mrs. áñez was improperly arrested and falsely accused of alleged crimes of conspiracy, sedition and terrorism, which have little to do with her person, as she assumed the presidency of the bolivian state in a transitory manner in november 2019 legally, for being vice president of the senate and in direct application of article 169 of the constitution of the state. it was also the result of a dialogue sponsored by the bolivian episcopal conference, the european union and the kingdom of spain, where the minister of foreign affairs was mr borrell, who sent his ambassador angulo as a special envoy. the main objective of the government of áñez was to call free, fair and transparent elections, a task that he carried out with due diligence and even in circumstances such as covid-19. finally, they gave the victory to the mas party, which assumed power without major difficulties. i would argue that this arrest completely violates the presumption of innocence of the accused, as well as the principles of independence and impartiality, the sense of justice, respect for guarantees and due process. it seems that this was a political revenge, orchestrated as a consequence of morales's departure from the country after his failed attempt to maintain power. it is clear that the separation of powers does not exist in bolivia, so it is impossible for the president to receive a fair trial in the current circumstances. mrs áñez and the others arrested on these false charges should not be kept in prison for one more minute, as this is a flagrant violation of their human rights.
author. mr. president, the conservative forces in this house the right and the extreme right have decided to bring a resolution on bolivia today; a strongly politicized resolution that aims to rewrite what happened in the country during the last years and which commits, in our view, a serious incoherence, which is to ask for separation of powers at the same time that a legislative power tells him what he should do to a judicial power in another country, what is it that he has to do in a specific case. that's not separation of powers, obviously. there are also spurious national political interests. in our view, all this does this house, the european parliament, a disservice: it damages its credibility and prestige. and i would even share this thought: whenever there are agreements between liberals, conservatives and the far right in this house, it is when spanish liberals and conservatives negotiate. and it gives you something to think about, i would say. i understand that the progressive forces are sending the only possible message, which is: in the face of a judicial process, all procedural guarantees are always required, no political interference by any government, neither by bolivia nor by this house, and respect for the rule of law. with a reminder: that the objective for bolivia must be coexistence and harmony, i repeat: coexistence and harmony. europe should not politicize this discussion and help the bolivian people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, luis arce received a very clear mandate from the bolivian people six months ago: to get bolivia out of the economic, health and political crisis that had paralysed the country for more than a year. but what president arce has done is to show that his only priority is not precisely the bolivian people, because the first thing he did was to imprison president jeanine áñez and part of her government in an arbitrary and, moreover, illegal and random way. but it is not revenge, moreover, that the mas is seeking in this case, trying at all costs to cover up the corruption of evo morales and his international partners, because it is also not casual that the prosecutor's office has immediately archived the investigation it was carrying out on the diversion of public funds to a spanish consultancy called neurona. there is a very clear intention on the part of the bolivian government to conceal this international network which has been fuelling instability and populism throughout latin america for years and which, curiously, directly involves pablo iglesias, an international ally of the various dictatorial governments in latin america and, curiously also until a few weeks ago, vice-president of the government of spain. ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution we demand that the european union stand right alongside other international organizations and mandates, such as the one referred to by the organization of american states by the united states government itself, which seek democracy, transparency and the preservation of human rights and international law for the people, in this case, of bolivia. i therefore encourage all of you to join our demand for the immediate release of president áñez, because bolivia does not need more revenge or more corruption; what it needs is reconciliation and justice.
author. mr president, it is surprising that we have this debate on bolivia as an urgent debate on violations of fundamental rights and the rule of law. because, by the same logic, i ask: when are we going to have the debate on fundamental rights and the rule of law in the spanish state? because there we have political prisoners and politicians who have had to go into exile - not because of a coup d'état, but because of a referendum! and, if this debate is urgent, the catalan political prisoners have been in prison for three and a half years already, serving sentences of up to 13 years; sentences which should be a disgrace to any democrat and any jurist. so i advise you to be cautious and humble if you are going to lecture other countries on how the rule of law should work. secondly, you will not find us in the narrative that says that in 2019 in bolivia there was electoral fraud; that mrs. áñez, with the police and the army, had to go out to save the country, and that mr. evo morales freely decided to leave. no, what happened there is that circumstances were generated and exploited to force a change in power, with the participation of the army and the police, ergo, a coup d'état. and the courts, in an independent and proportionate way, must clarify what happened. and above all, those responsible for the 35 dead victims of the repression must be held to account. and finally, last year's elections are the best argument to refute the right-wing narrative. the victory of president arce, of the same party as former president morales, was unquestionable because of the result and because it was the result of an election that everyone has recognized as clean and transparent. and i believe that this great victory of president arce gives him the legitimacy and moral authority to lead a process of political and social reconciliation in bolivia, where, while clarifying the facts of the recent past, we look above all to the future.
author. mr. president, it is a curious coup d'état that is being carried out to prepare for elections that everyone considers impeccable, under the supervision of the church, the european union, the neighboring countries, the oas... elections are organized, elections are held, elections are lost, there is a completely flawless transfer of power to the adversary. is that a coup d'etat? i wish it was the coups d'état that the left gives in that way. it is not so, there was no coup d'état: there was a fraud, a fraud that interrupted the bolivian people in a heroic way. they threw out a usurper who had been violating the constitution for a long time, violating it continuously. and now what is happening is an attempt to crush, with this narrative of the coup, the bolivian population, crush the opposition and create a narcocommunist regime like the one that had evo morales, like the one in venezuela and like the ones that are trying to set up with the são paulo forum and the cocaine money throughout the region and throughout ibero-america.
author. mr. president, on october 20, 2019, presidential elections were held in bolivia, an election in which president evo morales was impeccably reelected. reports from the oas, which were later proven to be false, provided the ammunition for sectors of the far right to initiate a series of violent actions that were followed by the uprising of the army and the police against the government of the legitimate president morales and against the constitutional order. president morales was forced into exile in mexico, where he was granted political exile status. and on that same day, mrs. áñez, a senator from a minority party of the extreme right, proclaimed herself president of bolivia with the support of the military. the weeks following the violent coup d'état and the self-proclamation of mrs áñez were characterized by violent persecutions, kidnappings, beatings, house fires of mas members, peasants, indigenous people and human rights defenders, many of them killed by military, police or fascist gangs who acted with the impunity given to them by the decree promulgated by mrs áñez, in which any type of criminal responsibility of the police or the military for the treatment of protesters was eliminated. here i want to send my love and solidarity to the families of the victims of senkata and sacaba, honor and glory! now you are coming to present áñez as a heroine who should be put on a pedestal; you are crossing all the lines and are destroying the image of this parliament. what's next, you're going to claim pinochet and videla? this is not a matter of left or right, it is, as elsewhere, a matter of democracy or fascism. i'm going to bolivia!
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, we have a great challenge ahead of us: the digital transformation of our society and our economy. today we are adopting digital europe, a european programme entirely dedicated to digitisation, but it is not enough and requires much more effort. we need to attract private capital and ensure that recovery funds are invested to accelerate the digital transition. europe needs a lot of investment: in artificial intelligence, supercomputers, cybersecurity and data centres, so that we are not left behind by the united states and china. we also need to invest in connectivity, so that 5g reaches rural areas and they don't empty out. and we need every citizen and every small business, whether it's a neighborhood store, a car repair shop or a rural hotel, to be able to benefit from digitization. and for that, it's critical to invest in people: to train every worker, to train experts to fill the thousands of jobs that are not being filled now, and to have everyone, young and old, prepared for an increasingly important digital administration. finally, we need a regulatory framework that allows us to trust technology, that respects our fundamental rights and values and that gives businesses the security to innovate, invest and grow. the digital decade for europe is beginning. let's put all the resources in so that no one is left behind.
mr president, our political group has been working on this agreement for years to strengthen the european union's capabilities in areas that will be key in the digital world we are building. i particularly appreciate the mention of the digital divide in the programme, because technology has to help to end inequalities, to reduce social inequalities. in this context, i would like to focus on the advanced digital skills pillar and stress the need to actively strengthen the participation of women and girls in the ict sector, because women are underrepresented, especially in employment, as we only occupy 18% of jobs in this sector. i would also like to stress the need to ensure the training of the younger generations in the digital arena, including cybersecurity, to combat disinformation, to build a critical and active digital citizenship and, ultimately, to ensure a successful, inclusive and democratic digital transition.
i would like to thank mr jens geier and mr christophe grudler for their role as rapporteurs and the other co-rapporteurs for their work. we have just agreed on the european climate law with objectives that bring us closer to the paris agreement: these two strategies, for the integration of the energy system and for hydrogen, are laying the foundations for its implementation. the urgency of action calls for exploiting the synergies of all energy vectors, involving sectors and consumers, and doing so in tandem with digitalisation. with the integration of the energy system we propose greater electrification based on renewable energies and improved interconnection of the grids. we recognize the limited role of natural gas, but this cannot be an excuse to prevent the necessary shutdown of fossil fuels or to encourage assets to be stranded on the road to decarbonisation. there are a lot of expectations with hydrogen, but let's be clear: the smaller its carbon footprint, the more sustainable and affordable it will be. the european commitment must be to green hydrogen, produced from renewable sources, and this is necessary as we will clarify the colour question with the commission. we have green, pink, grey, blue... we need to regulate this now, because we're going to allocate billions of euros from next generation eu and we need to do it in an efficient way. the objectives of the integration strategy also include giving the consumer a more active role, making him an active manager as a producer, but also with new consumption profiles: we have to engage the consumer in decarbonisation. let's not forget that we're moving into a new green economy with all its industrial opportunities: storage, mobility, renewables... let's also do it in a sustainable, circular way, respecting ecosystems. we now expect the commission to take note of parliament's position. we need to revise the efficiency and renewable legislation on the way to 50% by 2030, which is our decarbonisation target: let's not take steps backwards.
madam president, commissioner, in asturias - my region - the closure of coal mines and thermal power stations has forced many young people to leave areas that are being emptied out for lack of opportunities, the same situation as many other regions in spain and in europe, committed to achieving a greener and more sustainable future. the challenge we have set ourselves in europe is enormous and we must ensure that this transition is accompanied by the means necessary to ensure that no region and no citizen is left behind. to that end, europe offers us the just transition fund, a fund to attract innovative projects and to help industries and smes invest in cleaner processes, renewable energy and the circular economy; and above all, it must be a fund for people, to create new green jobs and train the workers affected by this transition, so that they can acquire the skills they need for the jobs of the future. now it's time to put these funds to good use. let us not make the mistakes of the past and let us make this transition an opportunity for our society.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the desire to move towards an economy that is consistent with the union's climate objectives, we cannot afford to ignore the enormous effort that will have to be made to achieve this: the territories most affected by their dependence on fossil fuels must move towards this new model with all the support and guarantees that it is indeed a truly fair transition, without overlooking the economic and social reality of the societies involved in this great change. nor can we ignore those who, even before this fund was put on the table, have already made a huge effort to make it possible; the just transition fund guarantees that necessary support which will be available to smes, micro-enterprises, workers, researchers, knowledge sectors and also local administrations. countless opportunities are opening up for new productive investments linked to energy efficiency, digitalisation, innovation, smart mobility and other new, more sustainable energy sectors, and ultimately new forms of production and growth that promote an economy committed to the future of the planet and future generations. it's a green background, but social.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr kanev, for his work on this report. when groups cooperate and work - despite their differences - in the same direction, it is much easier to achieve a good text. and this report is good evidence of that. with the own-initiative report we are debating today, we are taking a step forward and we are moving towards a freer, fairer and safer labour mobility. in this europe where almost 4% of its citizens live in another eu country and where there are more and more mobile and displaced workers, we cannot allow the single market to be used as a pretext to undermine rights and perpetuate precarious working conditions. the european union must redouble its efforts and fully address such important issues as safety and health at work, strengthening social dialogue, and business investment in formal and informal training and lifelong learning. and of course it must put an end to the intolerable, abusive practices of subcontracting, employment through temporary employment agencies and front companies. we must also create a legal framework to regulate teleworking, to ensure decent working conditions. and as for the european labour authority, we must ensure that it has real inspection powers in crossborder cases to put an end to fraud, exploitation and abuse in the european union. in short, only by reforming these key elements can we truly guarantee equal treatment in the internal market, while safeguarding respect for fundamental rights and national labour market models.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner lenarčič, first of all, i would like to convey the excitement i have in presenting my first own-initiative report to this parliament today and my thanks to all those who have been involved in this work and who have helped me to put this topical issue on the agenda. the terrible pandemic we're living through has paralyzed almost everything, but not climate change. the world bank, for example, estimates that more than 143 million people will be displaced by climate by 2050. first of all, i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs who have taken part and improved the text - frances fitzgerald, catherine chabaud, beata kempa and miguel urbán - and also the rapporteur for the libe committee, saskia bricmont, and those from the envi and femm committees, since i understand that this report is not as ambitious as we would have liked, but it is the best that can be done to provide a minimum framework for the protection of people who do not have it today. i would like to thank the commission for the coordinated work and active listening of dg intpa, of mrs urpilainen's team, and especially you, commissioner lenarčič, and your echo team, for your willingness to make progress on protective mechanisms for people with concrete measures. we have been debating in this parliament for some time about how we are making progress in protecting the environment and how we are becoming more resilient to climate change. we have a great green deal with important laws like climate, but it is urgent to put the most vulnerable people in developing countries on the agenda. we are the most important actor in humanitarian aid and international cooperation and therefore have an added responsibility. other parliaments around the world have already expressed their views, such as the african union with the kampala declaration and latin america with the cartagena declaration. we must address climate change as a cause of migration and as a phenomenon that directly or indirectly threatens human rights, including the right to housing, water, sanitation or food. we are saying in this report that there is a direct link between the effects of climate change and migration, that there are longer and more widespread crises because of climate change. we must therefore develop this external dimension of the green deal, support the partner countries and curb its impacts. droughts, floods, hurricanes, etc., are behind many of the conflicts that cause these crises. so we are talking about climate justice. the countries that have contributed the least to global warming are the ones that are most exposed to its suffering, the ones that are least prepared to mitigate its impact. and the most vulnerable populations, such as, for example, the original peoples, the indigenous peoples, are among the most affected. this report proposes a comprehensive strategy and we ask the commission to make a concrete communication which includes, on the one hand, a climate policy to increase international funding, compensation for damage; in short, to strengthen the warsaw mechanism, as demanded by the developing countries at the last cop 25 in madrid; to increase financial support for disaster prevention and preparedness, in accordance with the sendai framework agreements, particularly in the small island states on the verge of disappearing, such as kiribati. second, a development and humanitarian aid policy to address geographic vulnerabilities, such as housing location in risk areas, or livelihood bases, such as crop loss from drought or sea rise, by promoting local sustainable agriculture and food security initiatives. addressing personal vulnerabilities, for example through gender-sensitive climate actions to design and implement adaptation programmes. women must be at the centre of these policies, both because of their vulnerability and because they are agents of change. we call for a 'nexus' approach to be implemented that bridges emergency responses and long-term objectives to address the impact on people and implement sustainable solutions. thirdly, and very importantly, immigration policy. we call for the protection of existing legal mechanisms to be extended to ensure the rights of people who are forced to move internally or across borders, building on the nansen initiative for the protection of displaced persons; for the risk to life threatened by climate change to be explicitly included among the eligibility criteria for humanitarian protection, following the resolution of the un human rights committee in the case of teitiota, as stated by unhcr itself. the star proposal is a climate visa, a humanitarian visa as a temporary protection measure to ensure legal and safe migration routes for people in need of protection because they are victims of disasters. we cannot forget the awareness raising actions that serve to explain why and where so much immigration comes from. recognising the contribution of young people to global awareness-raising, as well as the work of ngos and local organisations, local and regional governments; enhancing intercultural dialogue between migrants and refugees to raise awareness and prevent racism. all these measures need funding. the european union, its member states and the european investment bank are the main contributors, but they are not enough and we need to involve the private sector. we've made commitments in the ndici, in the new neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, like allocating 40 percent of the funds to climate action, but now we have to plan, we have to land with concrete measures through programming and continue to count on middle-income countries. in addition, the humanitarian aid instrument will contribute to preventing, preparing for and responding to natural disasters. if there is a will, there will be funds available. in future, ladies and gentlemen, judicial decisions on climate and non-deportation will not be an anecdotal fact. it is a matter of time and jurisprudence to define progressively which specific natural events are to be considered and their link with the risk to life. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of this report and to avoid amendments which deny the link between climate and migration. this is why this own-initiative report is more timely than ever and we are convinced that the european institutions can and must do this. i hope that the work on this report will continue in the commission itself, through dg echo and dg intpa, and also from the libe commission, for example through the regulations of the new pact on migration.
madam president, madam vice-president, european industry represents more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon-emitting sectors. it is therefore easy to understand the importance of the industrial strategy review and how necessary it is to learn the lessons of the pandemic, accelerate the recovery of our economies and societies, while building a greener, digital and innovative industry, and also with strategic autonomy. but we cannot forget the social implications when designing a medium- and long-term recovery; we cannot ignore the commitment to a social europe, reinforced by the recent signing of the porto declaration, including also the gender dimension. in this respect, we need to bring the design of the industrial strategy for europe and investment in workers' skills on a par with each other in order to align objectives, fight unemployment and support quality employment. that way, we will move forward in a just recovery and transformation.
madam president, madam executive vice president, what we experienced last year at the beginning of the pandemic has taught us lessons, some very painful ones, such as the health shortages with the deficiencies we saw in global supply chains: this requires a reflection on the efforts needed to gain autonomy. the european green deal offers us a new framework for industrial development, but there are also obstacles, which can be overcome through innovation: it is essential to stimulate ingenuity and to put in the hands of companies the tools to make this possible. we also have an example in the digital transition: we cannot console ourselves with being champions in ethical norms and standards, we also have to be digital industrial champions. yesterday we discussed two important strategies for transforming the energy system and moving towards climate neutrality, the strategies for the integration of the energy system and for hydrogen; that is the way forward: moving towards decarbonisation, but doing so on a level playing field and with social justice.
in writing. european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors. therefore, the review of the industrial strategy published in march 2020 in light of the situation created by the pandemic is essential to draw lessons from the crisis, accelerate the recovery of our economies and societies while building a greener, digital, innovative and strategically autonomous industry. the s&ds welcome the references to the green and digital transition, the commission's taking into account of the consequences of the crisis for workers and businesses, the strengthening of the role of smes, the regulation on the control of foreign direct investment, the opening up of support measures in derogation from state aid, the sectoral analyses in response to the s&ds' request, and the emphasis on how to use the actual programmes of the multiannual financial framework to revive the economy. however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
in writing. european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors. therefore, the review of the industrial strategy published in march 2020 in light of the situation created by the pandemic is essential to draw lessons from the crisis, accelerate the recovery of our economies and societies while building a greener, digital, innovative and strategically autonomous industry. the s&ds welcome the references to the green and digital transition, the commission's taking into account of the consequences of the crisis for workers and businesses, the strengthening of the role of smes, the regulation on the control of foreign direct investment, the opening up of support measures in derogation from state aid, the sectoral analyses in response to the s&ds' request, and the emphasis on how to use the actual programmes of the multiannual financial framework to revive the economy. however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
in writing. european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors. therefore, the review of the industrial strategy published in march 2020 in light of the situation created by the pandemic is essential to draw lessons from the crisis, accelerate the recovery of our economies and societies while building a greener, digital, innovative and strategically autonomous industry. the s&ds welcome the references to the green and digital transition, the commission's taking into account of the consequences of the crisis for workers and businesses, the strengthening of the role of smes, the regulation on the control of foreign direct investment, the opening up of support measures in derogation from state aid, the sectoral analyses in response to the s&ds' request, and the emphasis on how to use the actual programmes of the multiannual financial framework to revive the economy. however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
in writing. european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors. therefore, the review of the industrial strategy published in march 2020 in light of the situation created by the pandemic is essential to draw lessons from the crisis, accelerate the recovery of our economies and societies while building a greener, digital, innovative and strategically autonomous industry. the s&ds welcome the references to the green and digital transition, the commission's taking into account of the consequences of the crisis for workers and businesses, the strengthening of the role of smes, the regulation on the control of foreign direct investment, the opening up of support measures in derogation from state aid, the sectoral analyses in response to the s&ds' request, and the emphasis on how to use the actual programmes of the multiannual financial framework to revive the economy. however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
for the left group. president. - the debate is closed. this is not a new debate. in 2013, 360 people drowned off the coast of lampedusa. they were almost safe. after that, a major rescue operation was launched, in which several countries participated. italy was the country that contributed the most through its operation mare nostrum. since then, however, several political leaders and eu leaders have backed down and said that we should not be involved in saving lives in the mediterranean. but when individual governments and the eu withdrew, then ngos stepped in. they've saved tens of thousands of lives in the mediterranean. they have been our eyes and hands in solidarity in the mediterranean. but what do they encounter? yes, they face persecution and criminalization. they're trying to seize their boats. they're being prosecuted. we have to stop this! but not only is the persecution of those who are actually carrying out the rescue operation in the mediterranean not enough, but also - by dealing with this libyan militia, which is being renamed the coast guard - it has contributed to the deaths in the mediterranean. now we have frontex contributing to illegal and deadly pushbacks in the mediterranean. to want to start talking about a lot of different proposals on how we are going to solve the big, big migration policy in the eu is actually not okay. we're here to talk about saving lives. to do that, we need a european life-saving operation, and we need to stop criminalizing and persecuting those who actually save lives in the mediterranean. the commission can do that. that is the commission's prerogative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the iom, the highest number of deaths since the beginning of the year has been recorded along the mediterranean route: we're talking about 555 dead and missing, triple the number from the year before. we must ask ourselves how much the lack of coordination or even the absence of effective european policies or the criminalization of relief work has affected recent tragedies. for years we have been unnecessarily calling for a common position on search and rescue, landing and relocation among all the member states of the european union. calls for effective solidarity with the member states at the front line and also for a fair sharing of responsibilities have been in vain; there has been no widening or creation of legal and safe pathways to tackle traffickers but cooperation with countries accused of human rights violations is tolerated. the european union's policies are therefore closely linked to the shared responsibility for the tragic loss of human life: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, welcome to the house of european democracy, mr minister, for the first time in five months in this capacity. many will speak today, and with propriety, of the dead in the mediterranean which in 2021 alone already exceeds 700 and already now those in the atlantic and the desperate situation in which they find themselves in the canary islands and ceuta. but this unspeakable tragedy must not make us forget the tragedy of migrants who are not at sea or in refugee camps, but who are exploited and enslaved on land, on the european continent and also in my country. for two weeks now we have known that tens of thousands of immigrants, almost all of them asians, live in subhuman conditions of total economic exploitation, almost on the verge of captivity or slavery. dozens of them live in one room, pay exorbitant rents, lose part of their salary, sometimes their passport, and work day and night in agriculture. the portuguese government, like others in europe, was aware of this intolerable exploitation. these migrants too must be rescued and our governments also have obligations, not just third countries. we must take care of all migrants, those who risk their lives at sea and those who lose their dignity on land. there are no first-class immigrants, no second-class immigrants. as john xxiii taught, everyone is a person.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, deaths in the mediterranean, search and rescue at sea, again! once again, deaths in the mediterranean, in the absence of sufficient rescue and salvage, remind us that every human life counts: the 130 who perished trying to reach lampedusa on 21 april, the one who was lost yesterday trying to swim to ceuta among five thousand others - the european union's external border, the european union's only land border with the african continent - and, allegedly, those 60 who left mauritania, whose three survivors, including aicha, as you recalled, commissioner johansson, lived a real hell that evokes that nightmare that happened in 1816 and that immortalized the romantic oil painting by gultéricault, the raft of the medusa. this cannot be solved by cooperating with the libyan coastguard in a non-country where there are massive human rights violations of those trying to reach the shores of the european union, nor can it be solved by externalizing the borders, nor by forgetting that life and its integrity must prevail over the protection of the borders of the european union. we need, we say again in this european parliament, a european rescue and salvage mechanism, which does not rely solely on that heroic spanish air force which rescued three survivors from sixty who left mauritania; we also need legal and safe routes, humanitarian visas, as this european parliament has repeatedly demanded, and safe landings in european ports, and, of course, aid at the source and in the countries of transit, but also a relentless criminal prosecution of human trafficking so that we do not have to be permanently, or recurrently, turning these debates on deaths in the mediterranean into a duel, not only in the mediterranean, but in the european parliament, which would represent the citizenry with genuine consternation and shock.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear ylva johansson, mr minister of state, dear augusto santos silva, we have the tools to act now and put an end to these human tragedies at sea. two years after the european parliament's resolution on the same subject of deaths and rescues at sea, we must not hide behind the slowness of the negotiations on the asylum and migration pact to let inaction triumph. the countries of first entry cannot handle the large numbers of migrants arriving via the mediterranean alone. the sicilians, the maltese, the canarians, the greeks and, since yesterday, the people of ceuta have called for solidarity. two concrete actions, madam commissioner, and one concrete action, mr minister. i would firstly urge the states to re-establish the malta declaration, which was launched at the initiative of france and germany to relieve the countries of first entry from the burden of receiving asylum seekers. mr minister of state, would you be prepared to quickly bring together in the council a strong coalition of willing states to bring about real solidarity from the european union? on the other hand, madam commissioner, the commission can organise more coordinated crisis management to support the national asylum authorities of the countries concerned, as provided for in article 33 of the dublin regulation. this would allow, madam commissioner, for better coordination of support capacities, in particular the easo and frontex agencies, and for providing emergency aid to lampedusa or ceuta in a critical situation. we need a europe of solutions and action, as it has done in the response to the health crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if my predecessors have rightly pointed out that this is a debate on sea rescue, then we can only say clearly and emphatically: of course, every person whose life is in danger must be rescued here. the political question is whether it makes sense to rescue someone 20 kilometres off the libyan coast and then bring them 500, 600 kilometres to europe, or whether those people who need to be rescued - no question - should be sent back to where they came from - in the case of libya. we have also had absurd situations, such as the spanish enclave of ceuta, where last night and yesterday up to 6,000 people simply waded or swam from morocco to spain. they create an effect that many more want to come than have already come. the debate has actually been going on since 2015, and i've been in this house since 2014, and every year we have the same debate. the european union is not - i conclude - in a position to solve this problem effectively, and that can only mean that europe must finally close its borders.
madam president, in an act of aggression unprecedented in the last fifty years, more than five thousand moroccans, encouraged by your government, illegally entered spain's borders yesterday. it's a planned invasion using minors as weapons against spain. it is no longer the mafia: it is a radical muslim government that encourages this illegal entry into national territory; a government that receives billions every year from brussels. i suppose the wealthy globalists will be delighted at the arrival of cheap labour, but in ceuta, in melilla, in andalusia, in the canaries and in all the humble neighborhoods of barcelona, madrid, valencia or seville, i assure you they do not think the same. they show european solidarity. we demand the immediate suspension of all payments to morocco; the imposition of sanctions; the immediate suspension of the issuing of visas or the recognition of legal residence or nationality to moroccan nationals; the mass deportation to morocco of all illegal immigrants, and the return of these children to their parents. the future of europe is not being played out in online debates about federalism and climate change; the future of europe is being played out today in the streets of ceuta with the spanish army deployed. you have a choice: civilization or barbarism. then maybe conflict will come, and at that point, having money won't be worth anything.
madam president, 667 people killed this year, the grave of more than seven thousand people since 2014. europe is not just complicit, it is also responsible: a development policy tied to border control, not to fair development; a trade policy that increases inequality, that lacks tools for european transnational companies to guarantee respect for human rights and decent working conditions; an ineffective foreign policy; an illegal border regime that persecutes organizations that are doing the work that the european union is failing to do. we plant bombs, we collect refugees; we plant misery, we collect refugees. we cannot build a europe with a future if we allow human rights to be sold; we cannot allow lives fleeing poverty and conflict to be dehumanized, criminalized and persecuted, nor can we allow other people and organizations to be persecuted, as in the recent cases of helena maleno in morocco and juana ruiz in israel. the solution is not more frontex; the solution is a fair, autonomous foreign policy that goes to the root of the problems and to the co-responsibility of all the countries of the union: only then can we raise our heads and start talking about the values of the union.
madam president, mrs johansson, you have no idea how difficult it is to condense this debate into just one minute. to sum up in one minute the pain of the loss of life, this year, more than 600. explain in a minute that this is not a coincidence, that these are not random events, but the result of european political decisions, of the walls of massive and illegal operations of hot returns, of their deportations à la carte. a minute to say it's the dirty, lucrative business of a few. but there is something i can tell you at this minute, mrs. johansson. that there is no police force, no political decision, no wall that can stop the human will to survive, to save themselves from misery, from war, from the consequences of climate change. please, let's do something about this, mrs johansson. let's stop sending the frontex hit men to wreck them. we must open legal and safe channels, and create a european public and civil search and rescue body. please, mrs johansson, let us open the way to human rights.
madam president, between yesterday and today, more than six thousand immigrants - 1,500 of them minors and one person who sadly died - swam across the border of ceuta, the border between europe and africa, in the face of the passivity of moroccan agents; a passivity which is not unforeseen, but quite the opposite: it is the expected result of the disastrous foreign policy of the sanchez government vis-à-vis morocco. morocco is a strategic partner for spain and for the whole of europe; morocco shows the need for fundamental collaboration in matters such as immigration, intelligence, the fight against jihadism, organized crime and the mafias that traffic in human beings. that is why all the governments in spain, both socialist and popular, have cultivated a relationship of good neighbourliness and close cooperation which has served as a model for the european union. all of them, until now. the sánchez government has allowed the radicals and populists of podemos to boycott relations between spain and morocco. after numerous diplomatic snubs and irresponsible statements, sánchez is now allowing the entry into our country of polisario front leader brahim gali, a public enemy of morocco and accused of crimes against humanity. with this new affront, sánchez is seriously damaging spain's and europe's relations with morocco, and the arrival of thousands of irregular immigrants to the european union is the consequence. i therefore ask the european commission to help to rebuild relations between spain and morocco, to prevent sanchez and the radical left from throwing away decades of cooperation and to put a stop to the new wave of migration.
i have to say, madam president, refugees instead of rescuing people instead of rescue ships, the eu is sending frontexaircraft to the central mediterranean. frontex systematically cooperates with the so-called libyan coast guard in interception and pullback operations. there is ample evidence of this violation of international law. consequences none. last thursday, 27-year-old refugee mohamad was on trial in lesbos. when the rubber boat carrying him and 33 others ran aground, mohamad tried to get the boat safely ashore. two women drowned. under greek immigration law, the mere touch of a steering wheel is enough to be considered smuggling. what are the consequences? mohamad h. was charged with smuggling and the deaths of two people and sentenced to 146 years in prison. this is the bitter reality of the european union today. if we want to do something concrete to overcome the humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean, if we want to stop people drowning, then i appeal to the commission and the council: finally organize a civilian sea rescue programme!
madam president, we are discussing today the recent deaths of migrants in the mediterranean, which you always attribute to a lack of protection or goodwill on the part of european nations. but this situation is actually largely your responsibility, because you are the ones who vote and maintain the vacuum pumps of emigration; because you are the ones who are disarming frontex morally and legally; because you are the ones who welcome and applaud carola rackete, captain of the sea-watch, accused of forcing the blockade of italian ports and recovering smugglers' boats in libyan territorial waters. you say that migrants rush to europe at the risk of dying; but you're actually encouraging them. our duty of solidarity - real solidarity, not your hypocritical charity - demands that we stop presenting europe as an eldorado for the people of the third world. we must, like the australians, build a deterrent migration policy by controlling our borders, by stepping up refoulements, by deporting illegal immigrants and by reforming asylum law. it is with this policy of firmness and deterrence, as the australians have done, that we will prevent further tragedies in the mediterranean.
madam president, the number of deaths in the mediterranean sea, which some of us call home, has already reached almost 700 this year - more or less the same number of members as we have in this parliament. imagine the 700 people sitting in the seats in front of us telling us what made them get on the boats, because they felt safer than the reality of living in their own country. security is a fundamental human right. the european reaction to all this has always been to offer prayers and to try to meet this challenge with money. we have left the countries bordering the european union alone, even though that border is european, our common border. how long would it take to dump the body in the mediterranean? there is a need for a european system coordinated by the member states, one that not only takes care of rescuing, but that sees to it that the burden of refugees is shared across the european union.
i will open the first voting session today. the voting session will be open from 13. 00 to 14. 15. the the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same method as in previous partsessions. for the vote on the appointments, the vote shall be by secret ballot. members will be able to cast their votes in the usual way, but the ballot paper they receive for signature will not show how they voted but only the fact that they voted. all other votes will be by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. i declare the voting session open. you have until 14. 15 to vote. the results of the votes will be announced on the 19th. 00.00 hours
we now continue our debate on the council and commission statements on recent deaths in the mediterranean and search and rescue at sea (2021/2690 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all who took part in this debate today. i think that it shows a strong engagement and commitment to humanitarian efforts to save lives, and of course this is absolutely needed. we need to do things right now and we are doing things right now. we are giving direct support to member states under pressure. eu agencies are assisting the italian authorities in the registration and screening of newly arrived people in lampedusa: 190 frontex staff from 26 member states, 150 staff from the european asylum support office (easo) are supporting the italian migration and asylum system. my services are on the ground and i have set up the new european contact group on search and rescue to bring together member states and schengen countries and all relevant parties, including ngos and our agencies, to help shape a common approach to search and rescue. search and rescue is going on, of course, like the spanish officers that saved aicha and many others who are doing the search and rescue at sea right now. but we have to realise that even though the tragedies are at sea, sustainable solutions lie on dry land. we need sustainable solutions. we can’t continue with ad hoc solutions. so, for example, right now we are relying on voluntary relocations. that will not be enough. that’s why i proposed in the pact on migration and asylum a binding solidarity mechanism specially tailored for search and rescue cases. we can’t, of course, have ngos that carry out humanitarian efforts to rescue lives being criminalised. that’s why i proposed in the pact that this should not be possible. we need a sustainable solution. i met with the united nations high commissioner for refugees, filippo grandi, last week and we talked about the search and rescue cases. his immediate response was that the most important thing is to get the new pact on migration and asylum adopted. i count on you in this parliament – i know i can do that – and i count on the council to be constructive, to find the right pragmatic solutions. migration is manageable. lives can be saved. we have to work together for the european solution to do that.
acting president of the council. madam president, first of all, i thank the european parliament for this debate. it is very important that this issue remains on our agenda and that the european political groups contribute to consistent progress in our approach to this problem. it is therefore a credit to the european parliament. we need to continue to save lives and save more and more lives, and therefore i also honour the european commission for the work it has done, the european agencies that contribute to saving lives and rescuing shipwrecked people, and i also honour the member states that are doing this. we must continue to work towards accountability mechanisms that will enable rescued people to be relocated. unfortunately, we have only a handful of member states cooperating with each other to find solutions for the tracing and integration of the rescued people, and therefore it is also an honour for the member states which have worked towards this on a voluntary basis. we need to combat trafficking, we need to combat the smuggling networks of people who are criminals; they are highly organized criminals and they are, for all practical purposes, killers. but we must tackle and respond to the root causes of migration and refugee flows, and to do so we must work on several fronts: strengthening the protection and management of the european union's external borders, balancing the responsibility of frontline states with the solidarity of all other states towards them. we need to work on the pursuit of legal, safe and orderly migration routes to europe. europe needs migrants and it needs legal, safe, regular and orderly pathways of migration and we need to work on the external dimension of migration. we need to work more and more with the countries of origin and transit, particularly with the neighbouring countries in africa, but also in the middle east. and it's possible to move forward in all of this. we have a very important proposal from the european commission, the proposal for the new asylum and migration pact, and the portuguese presidency of the council has made it a priority to work on the basis of this proposal to try to build consensus on the proposal or on the central elements of this proposal. the proposal put forward by the european commission clearly meets all the challenges i have outlined, it is a good basis for work and the presidency of the council will fight, until the last minute of its mandate, to make progress in putting this proposal into practice and in obtaining the necessary consensus to make it possible. the approval, the agreement we reached yesterday on the blue card, which has nothing to do directly with the proposal for the new pact, is nevertheless a sign that we can understand each other, that we can reach agreements and, on the basis of the agreements we have reached, we can even move forward on the legal and safe channels of migration that europe so badly needs. but we also need to work more on the external dimension of migration. on the initiative of the portuguese presidency and the european commission and the high representative, a jumbo information meeting was held in march, bringing together the council's foreign and home affairs ministers. the council has not met for six years and the consensus reached by all was clear. it is possible to work on the basis of this consensus. a few days ago, a ministerial meeting was held in lisbon, also attended by the commissioner, bringing together representatives of the member states of the european union and representatives of states from north african countries, and it was also possible to identify ways forward together. and finally, we have today very important instruments for our cooperation, in particular with africa, the agreement reached at the end of the post-cotonou negotiations, the framework for cooperation with the countries of sub-saharan africa beyond the pacific and the caribbean and the fact that we have today the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, global europe, which has a very important set of funds that allow us to bring to the centre of our work the development of comprehensive agreements with different countries, within which development issues, partnership issues, investment issues can be addressed, thereby addressing the root causes of migration. it is very important to save lives, as it is equally important to address the root causes that have caused so much pain and so many lives lost in the mediterranean.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. nearly 6,000 illegal immigrants attacked ceuta spanish city, spanish territory. it's very symbolic. that's what's been happening with a tremendous intensity in recent years. europe is being invaded by illegal immigrants, aided by left-wing ngos that are running routes, helping with rubber boats and so on. all this is happening with the clear aim of europe being "flooded" with immigrants, all this is driven by the idea of erasing borders and destroying nations. i believe that europe's first duty is to protect its borders and to return anyone who tries to cross illegally. our economies, our health systems, our social systems will not withstand the endless influx of those who want to take advantage of them. so we must protect and preserve ourselves. we need to invest in the ability to protect our external borders, we need to take a hard stand against anyone who engages in human trafficking. europe is not a boarding house and a lifeline for everyone in the world. we face difficult times and it is time to think first of the survival and prosperity of our countries and nations.
in writing. migrants and asylum seekers continue to lose their lives trying to reach european shores in the absence of sufficient rescue and assistance. so far this year, 667 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean, according to official figures from the iom. unfortunately, there is no coordinated european approach to rescue operations and the problem is not solved by cooperating with the libyan coastguard - a non-country in which there are massive human rights violations of those trying to reach the shores of the european union - nor by externalizing the borders, nor by forgetting that life and its integrity must prevail over the shielding of the borders of the european union. the european parliament has been calling for a european rescue and salvage mechanism for years to replace the current ad hoc solutions. in addition, there must be legal and safe routes, humanitarian visas, safe landings in european ports and, of course, aid at the source and in the countries of transit, but also a ruthless criminal prosecution of trafficking in human beings. the european citizens are shocked and appalled by these events and we must urgently act together in a global, comprehensive and united response.
in writing. migrants and asylum seekers continue to lose their lives trying to reach european shores in the absence of sufficient rescue and assistance. so far this year, 667 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean, according to official figures from the iom. unfortunately, there is no coordinated european approach to rescue operations and the problem is not solved by cooperating with the libyan coastguard - a non-country in which there are massive human rights violations of those trying to reach the shores of the european union - nor by externalizing the borders, nor by forgetting that life and its integrity must prevail over the shielding of the borders of the european union. the european parliament has been calling for a european rescue and salvage mechanism for years to replace the current ad hoc solutions. in addition, there must be legal and safe routes, humanitarian visas, safe landings in european ports and, of course, aid at the source and in the countries of transit, but also a ruthless criminal prosecution of trafficking in human beings. the european citizens are shocked and appalled by these events and we must urgently act together in a global, comprehensive and united response.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, migration is a key policy area for the eu. this debate today is a timely opportunity to discuss the human rights aspects of our external migration policy and i would like to thank ms strik for her report. as the report highlights, migrants and refugees are among the most vulnerable groups in the world and i am deeply saddened that loss of lives continues to occur on the perilous journeys to europe. this is a constant reminder of the dangers migrants face. we will continue to do everything to prevent this from happening. over the past years, the eu has developed a comprehensive migration policy framework. our aim is to ensure that migration takes place in a safe and regular manner avoiding loss of life and providing international protection to those who are eligible. there is a strong agreement at eu level that migration has to be an integral part of overall relations with partners. eu foreign ministers and ministers for the interior agreed in march this year at the joint foreign affairs and home affairs council that the eu must ensure a comprehensive approach and that we need to work in close partnership with third countries. we aim to address migration in all its aspects. this also includes improving cooperation on return and readmission and the conclusion of formal readmission agreements or legally non—binding arrangements. but most of all, it means that the protection of all migrants, their dignity and their human rights must be at the heart of eu migration policy. this is reflected in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy, which calls for specific protection of migrants, refugees and internally displaced persons. the report calls for engagement with third countries on the rights of migrants. this is exactly what we are doing in our relations with partner countries. we are at all levels regularly advocating for the protection of human rights in the context of migration. our eu special representative for human rights, eamon gilmore, frequently addresses these issues in country visits or human rights dialogues he chairs. the report underlines the importance of the relevant international frameworks. i am strongly committed to multilateral solutions and approaches. the promotion and protection of human rights are inherent in our cooperation with international partners, such as the international organization for migration or the unhcr. high commissioner grandi and the high representative met very recently and discussed the situation in ethiopia, lebanon, colombia and the western balkans. our partnership to protect refugees and migrants in libya, as part of the african union, european union and united nations taskforce provides another example of specific cooperation. the new neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument – ndici, ‘global europe’ – will improve our ability to address migration—related challenges. the promotion and protection of human rights is enshrined in the instrument. the level of democratic scrutiny by the european parliament is enhanced by bringing the european development fund – which represented a third of the external action funding – under the union’s budget. the commission services and the eeas are committed to geopolitical dialogue with the european parliament, where general orientations on the implementation of the ndici will be discussed, the first one taking place on 15 june, where both the high representative, myself and commissioner urpilainen will be present.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, we were told that the pandemic would change everything, but the immigration policy remains the same or worse. these days we are witnessing in ceuta the practical translation of the externalization of european borders to dictatorships: six thousand people have swum across the southern border in the umpteenth blackmail exercise by the moroccan government to continue buying complicit silence in the face of the illegal occupation of the sahara. this is not just a spanish problem, but also a european migration policy problem, and it shows that the externalization of borders and the conditionality of development aid in migration control is not only criminal - with more than two thousand deaths this year - it is not only a violation of human rights - which are precisely the ones this report is talking about - it is not only not working - as we are clearly seeing - but it is also giving unscrupulous dictatorships a weapon of blackmail. if we want to put an end to this blackmail and protect the human rights of migrants, there is only one way: to dismantle the policies of fortress europe. the rest is buying into the far-right agenda by sending the army to the borders.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, on 23 april 130 people died in the mediterranean after having asked the libyan coastguard for help: this was of course a conscious decision to omit the duty of rescue. interestingly, one of the pillars of european migration policy is the agreements with third countries and their funding for migration control: we are already seeing the failure of this model at the spanish border with morocco; and, on the other hand, even if it is proven that detention and torture centres exist in places like libya, and even if we see the practices of their coast guard, from here we not only do not condemn it, but we sponsor these violent actions. that is why, in our opinion of this report, we have proposed that european funds be made conditional on respect for international law and human rights and, of course, that these agreements be reviewed so as to stop financing the libyan militias, the externalization of borders, feudal monarchies such as morocco, and so on. in short, let us stop funding torturers and mafias, and let us stop funding blackmail.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, today migration is a challenge, a challenge to the european union's concert, a stumbling block for the countries at the finish line who cannot manage on their own to cope with the great waves of people desperately reaching this continent: these states need real help from other members of the european union to be able to relieve this pressure. six thousand people swam from morocco to ceuta in spain yesterday; last week more than two thousand arrived by boat to lampedusa in italy, and as summer approaches this situation will be repeated more and more frequently in many parts of southern europe. we must therefore protect our borders, ensure controlled migration and safe routes that do not endanger human integrity or feed the mafias who profit at the expense of the lives of the weakest. the rights of migrants are also human rights, rights which the text we are debating today takes up from a humanist and europeanist perspective. i believe that whenever we talk about rights, we must also include the duties that they entail, and this is something that is unfortunately not clearly reflected in this report and therefore may lead to political divisions within this house.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, dear minister, it is not an easy task to be the rapporteur for this report on turkey. at one point i have allowed myself the irony of saying that my colleagues punished me by having to take this dossier, but at this point i would like to thank very much the work of the alternative rapporteurs from each group, from their teams. we've made a good bargain on a matter we all know is quite sensitive. we have all tried - and i have done so as rapporteur - to have an objective attitude, an attitude which will allow us to move forward in relations, in an environment which has not been easy and, moreover, by saying the same thing here in this gallery as we say in turkey. this report is probably the most critical of the historical series, because it reflects a critical situation in this parliament, in which we have spoken a lot about turkey in the last two years, and because it reflects probably the two worst years of our relationship with that country. i am not going to try to summarize the 30 pages you already know, but to clarify some of the messages contained in the report. a message to the turkish government: to restore confidence, first of all, we must change the anti-european rhetoric, which has been used so frequently in a nationalist atmosphere in turkey, but not only that. what really needs to change is the authoritarian tendency in the way the country is governed, an authoritarian interpretation of the presidential system that leads to an absolute inability to accept even the slightest political criticism - whether students, doctors, human rights activists, opposition parties - in a system centralized in the government, in which the parliament, and even the government itself, no longer have much to say. so what we are asking turkey for are facts, not words. do not send us any more programmes, any more action plans, if that political intention is not backed up by facts, for example, when it comes to implementing the judgments of the european court of human rights or returning to the istanbul convention, as everyone is asking that society to do. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. a sincerity that wouldn't need incentives. sometimes in turkey they say, "we have no incentives". excuse me, incentives to be a democracy? does a society really need incentives to want to be a mature democracy? i therefore believe that the turkish government must change a great deal of what has happened in recent years in order to put the country back on the path of convergence with europe. a message to turkish society, a society which miraculously still shows a huge commitment to european values and policies and which still considers itself, by and large, to be still largely pro-european: this parliament will not abandon pro-european and pro-democratic turkish civil society. turkey is much more than its government. sometimes in europe, only the turkish president is talked about as if there is no country behind him. a big country, a huge country, a very vital country; a country with a great civil society, which sometimes we don't see from here. this parliament will therefore continue to support turkish civil society, whatever the attitude of its government. and a message, mr minister, to the council and the member states: we need serious reflection. it is not possible that we should not have a unified policy with turkey; it is not possible that the question of values should be left on the agenda of parliament and that the democratic situation in turkey should be avoided whenever the council makes an offer to turkey. this creates an element of confusion for our turkish partners which is used against the european union. turkey is a candidate country; we must not forget that. the council cannot deal with turkey as if it were a third country, and parliament cannot deal with turkey as if it were only a candidate country, but we must unify our policies if they are to be useful for turkey and its society. so no positive agenda can be offered if strong democratic conditionality is not demanded. they want to talk to turkey about the customs union. in the end, mr minister, the customs union is going to come into this chamber and this chamber is saying that it will not support any reform of the customs union unless there is democratic conditionality. the sooner the council accepts that this is going to be necessary, the better for everyone. so this is a very critical report. i hope it is the most critical because in the future things will get better and we will have to change our approach to turkey. the report also has positive messages: it acknowledges turkey's efforts in the field of migration and it recognizes, behind its rulers, a country that is sometimes not seen from europe and that i think we all have to discover, despite the prejudices that sometimes assail us. the door to europe is therefore still open; at least, from the point of view of this parliament, with all the criticism contained in this report, the door to europe is still wide open.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, 212 palestinians killed by israeli airstrikes on the civilian population of the gaza strip, 64 of them children, 22 protesters killed and 4 739 wounded in the west bank occupied by the occupation forces. and the european union condemns and only condemns the rocket launches from the gaza strip. what has the european union done to stop this massacre? what do we do to prevent netanyahu from continuing to inflame this conflict to cover up his corruption and his problems to stay in power? what is the european union doing to get the spanish aid worker juani ruiz out of prison after weeks of interrogation and torture in israeli jails? mr borrell has said that only the united states can solve this, but he knows that the united states is the protector of the israeli regime and that it has vetoed three security council resolutions in recent weeks. i say to you: you can take the step, suspend israel's participation in programmes financed by the european union. today the palestinians are rising up in a general strike from gaza to haifa and the european union must stand up to a people who have already suffered too many deaths.
i have to say, madam president, rockets on gaza, robbing children of their future, destroying hospitals, homes and offices of journalists. the missile attacks on tel aviv, which also rob children of their future, hit homes and innocent people indiscriminately. missiles that violate not only human rights, but international law. the mutual shooting must stop immediately! the eu and the international community must press for this without compromise. i find it intolerable that my fellow citizens of the jewish faith are threatened with hatred and violence. we will not tolerate anti-semitic crimes, but unilateral solidarity for each side in the conflict is wrong. arab and jewish israelis are taking to the streets together to demand an end to the senseless military confrontation for peace, for equality, for social justice, against the displacement of families through forced evictions, annexation and settlement policies. they are our partners. stopping the violence on both sides is the order of the day. the security of israel and the rights of the palestinians are inseparable. it's the only way to solve it!
i have to say, madam president, if israel is attacked, it has the right to defend itself. when a terrorist organization like hamas fires rockets at israel, it cynically accepts that civilians will be killed and property destroyed as a consequence. we call on hamas to stop the bombing, and then israel will no longer have to respond. we are very concerned when the president of israel warns of a civil war, when neighbours jews and israeli arabs suddenly become enemies. israel must also set the tone. stop the expulsions from east jerusalem and the settlement building every building block for this is another stumbling block on the road to peace. there is no blessing in this policy. i want the united states back as an honest broker. president biden is right when he says palestinians - including in gaza - and israelis deserve to live in dignity, safety and security. we europeans can make a decisive contribution to this together with the united states. we stand in solidarity with the jewish people in europe, who are the subject of hatred by old and new nazis and by people, often of muslim background, who have not yet understood that anti-semitism has no place in europe.
madam president, to declare that we want to stop the violence by decontextualising the situation of the israeli-palestinian conflict is simply to rewrite the facts. of course, we must advocate for a ceasefire, because we are for peace. but equidistance speeches are particularly disturbing today. we are facing an occupier, israel, and an occupied people, the palestinian people. is it necessary to remind, as international ngos and israeli ngos such as b'tselem and yesh din have shown, that we are facing an apartheid regime? so, yes, of course, the european union must use everything in its power to stop the violence that is now being committed between hamas and israel. but the european union must also use all it has to stop the rampant violence of occupation and apartheid against the palestinian people, and for a lasting peace, but a lasting peace for all.
madam president, mr minister, the images of parents mourning their loved ones in the rubble - these women, children and civilians on both sides of the border - are unbearable. the burn was preventable. hamas' cynicism and its desire to take power in the west bank has been playing out for eight days: it is hell. so yes, the government of benjamin netanyahu must do its part; but make no mistake, it is hamas that is murdering the palestinian cause, it is hamas that is murdering peace. europe must call for de-escalation and also, it was said, rely on regional actors. in addition to this tragedy, there is another, more odious reality: the calls for the murder of jews heard this weekend in hanover and brussels; the violent anti-semitic chanting at the demonstrations of solidarity with the palestinians this sunday, one kilometre from parliament; the violence in the streets of brussels, which has been the subject of numerous protests, and the violence in the streets of brussels, which has been the subject of numerous protests. there are also torrents of hate online, uncontrollable. here too, europe has a role to play, because it is urgent for the european union, in the face of these criminal arsonists who infest the networks of hatred and in the face of the platforms, to strengthen not its discourse, but its legislation, because in our country, online hatred, the hatred that kills, is over.
i have to say, madam president, the hamas rocket terror and from there comes the aggression against the israeli population shocked deeply. as a german, i am appalled and disgusted that these days anti-jewish slogans are being heard loudly and freely in our cities. this is the left-wing, green and islamic anti-semitism that is being encouraged and fuelled by quite a few people in this house, disguised as criticism of israel. israeli victims are relativized, propaganda is spread and israel is demonized. i call on all of you: absolutely nothing can justify this terror against israel! for us, unlike for many others, these are not mere lip service. our unbreakable solidarity is felt more than ever these days by israel and the many jewish people here in europe. we stand against hatred and violence to protect jewish life in freedom everywhere in the world and for a lasting peace in the holy land. we must no longer allow the eu to continue to finance hamas and fatah extremists and thus indirectly terrorism against israel by means of alleged aid payments. we are in full solidarity with israel in its struggle for its inalienable right to exist.
madam president, let me start with the obvious. israel has every right to defend itself against the indiscriminate terrorist attacks from hamas. europe has every obligation to strongly oppose any form of anti-semitism that we unfortunately experience in this context again. we mourn the victims and we want a ceasefire and a stop of escalation without delay, but the reality that people would return to after cessation of hostility is in itself unsustainable. the region is looking into the abyss. this is a perfect storm that touches every aspect of the israeli-palestinian conflict. it’s been a mistake to think that this issue can be put on the backburner. we need new leadership on all sides, leadership able and willing to avoid actions that undermine a peaceful future, and that includes incitement, violent attacks, terrorist acts, evictions, demolitions and settlement construction east of the 1967 line.
madam president, what we have been experiencing for weeks is again the repetition of the same thing. we are seeing systematic bombing of the missiles of the hamas terrorists, facilitated by iran, by tehran, against israel. and no one says anything, nothing happens, there are no problems. the problems seem to start for the media and politicians in democracies, paradoxically, when israel starts to defend itself. israel has every right in the world to defend itself; israel will always defend itself and is capable of doing so. there was a plan, there was really hope with all the abraham accords, with which channels had been opened under trump, under that denounced trump who reached those agreements and with which it could have been followed. of course, tehran was not comfortable with these abraham accords, and that's why we are at this moment with this new american administration, which seems to be interested only in liquidating everything that was done under trump. they want the chance to take these agreements and to go down the path of catastrophe again. that said, i am very sorry about the anti-semitism of the left in europe against israel, which is the bulwark of democracy, of all our democracies.
madam president, hundreds of dead, whole families and children, in gaza: must we remember that israel collectively punishes two million people in an open-air prison with devastating wars every few years? demonstrations shouting "death to the arabs!" , lynching of palestinians, police violence against peaceful demonstrations for forced evictions in neighborhoods, arrests of women defenders like juana ruiz... violence against all civilians must stop, wherever they are, enough already! but we cannot stand still and equidistant between oppressor and oppressed, between colonist and colonized, or think that violence arises out of nowhere: today's violence has been built on decades of international inaction, occupation, blockade, dispossession and human rights violations. it is urgent to move from statements to deeds, to demand an immediate end to the bombing and an end to apartheid and occupation. what has the european union done? an emergency meeting eight days later, hundreds of dead afterwards. when will we activate autonomy, independence or a simple strategy against other great powers? if we want peace, we must be able to try to bring about justice.
in writing. the european socialists have urged in this house for an immediate end to the violence between israel and palestine. we strongly condemn the rocket fire by hamas and the disproportionate israeli response offensive on the gaza strip. the legitimate right to security of israel, which we socialists have always defended, cannot justify the indiscriminate use of violence, contrary to international law, which has again caused an unbearable number of civilian deaths, including many children. these periodic episodes of violence only perpetuate the conflict and sow more pain and suffering for the future. it is time for the european union and the international community to assume its responsibility and to act decisively and urgently to lay the foundations for a genuine peace process between the parties that achieves a common, just and lasting agreement, that ends the occupation and that makes the two-state solution a reality, before the continuing unilateral decisions that are being made on the ground make it materially unviable.
in writing. the european socialists have urged in this house for an immediate end to the violence between israel and palestine. we strongly condemn the rocket fire by hamas and the disproportionate israeli response offensive on the gaza strip. the legitimate right to security of israel, which we socialists have always defended, cannot justify the indiscriminate use of violence, contrary to international law, which has again caused an unbearable number of civilian deaths, including many children. these periodic episodes of violence only perpetuate the conflict and sow more pain and suffering for the future. it is time for the european union and the international community to assume its responsibility and to act decisively and urgently to lay the foundations for a genuine peace process between the parties that achieves a common, just and lasting agreement, that ends the occupation and that makes the two-state solution a reality, before the continuing unilateral decisions that are being made on the ground make it materially unviable.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, with all due respect and affection to the rapporteur, and with all due affection to all those who have been involved in the creation of this report on the effects of climate change on human rights and the role of environmental defenders, it turns out that as the planet is being destroyed in a hurry and some are suffering more than others, the legal, legal, economic, national and scientific frameworks must be destroyed to create a new reality from an absolute fiction. nothing stands still after this storm of sentimentality and good intentions. this report is perfect proof that ideological overacting can generate not monsters but monstrous nonsense. reports like this make europeans more and more distant from us. they, who have real problems, see us making a very long report, full of absolutely useless blows that do nothing to improve. we need development and we need reality, not ideology, to fix the issues we are dealing with.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the eu commission has presented an ambitious plan for fair and effective corporate taxation in europe. this plan is more ambitious than the original eu commission work programme. the proposals are good, but there is no plan for implementation. plans for more tax fairness are worthless if they can be vetoed by individual tax havens. it is a courageous proposal, but it suffers from a lack of courage to implement it. the proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base for large companies has been blocked by the member states for ten years, and proposals for corporate taxation for twenty years. these blockades take place without any consequences for the eu commission or the injured states. that has to change. the eu commission must finally take action that can no longer be blocked by the veto of individual tax havens. three suggestions: first: clearly support the 21 percent minimum tax rate as joe biden has proposed. at oecd level, there is no veto by tax havens on this method. secondly, initiate infringement proceedings against all member states which infringe existing eu tax law. thirdly, finally use article 116, which opens the way to majority voting in cases of serious market distortions, including taxation. we can't afford to dump taxes anymore, especially after the coronavirus crisis.
mr president i agree with the commission that fair and efficient taxation is needed. i would also stress the importance of predictability, and that we should not allow big tech companies to avoid paying taxes, and that we should punish tax evasion severely. but i've got a whole new idea of how we can do that. i strongly disagree with brussels' attempt to force member states to raise taxes. it's not an argument that covid is going to bring economic recovery, extra revenue. each member state is responsible for how it raises revenue. in hungary, by improving tax morale, making tax avoidance impossible, reducing taxes on labour and creating a business-friendly environment, we have achieved an increase in tax collections. this has made us more competitive and has improved the competitiveness of europe as a whole. any harmonisation would do that away, and that is the last thing we need in this crisis. i ask the commission to come forward with a strategy that does not undermine but rather increases both europe's competitiveness and cohesion and cooperation between member states.
mr president, commissioner, i wanted to welcome the publication of the communication recently published by the commission because i think it is very important that the european union stresses the importance of tax transparency, anti-fraud measures, anti-money laundering measures and everything that has to do with simplifying the complex and bureaucratic tax system in the various member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore believe that what we need to promote is that free tax competition between the different states and perhaps advocate, although it may sound strange, for tax cuts, and not want to constantly harmonize rates which what they do is always harmonize upwards and then harm our businesses, companies, the self-employed, and harm job creation. maybe it would be good, once in a while, to hear that lowering taxes helps the revenue. on the other hand, i would also like to stress, and i will end with this, the need to remember that whenever we talk about taxes, they come from the pockets of the citizens, because perhaps it will make us take into account, when raising them, that we are harming european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, the approval of the creative europe programme is good news. it comes at a very difficult time for the cultural and creative sector, which suffered an 80% loss of turnover in the second half of last year alone. however, it was culture that relieved us and freed us from the harsh confinements, despite its endemic lack of financial and protection of its professionals. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp, in particular by ensuring that the cfp is properly managed and implemented. more specifically, i would like to stress the importance of the programme increasing its volume of literary translations and film subtitles in minority or co-official languages such as catalan, basque or galician: if one of the aims of creative europe is to make access to culture more inclusive, we must be genuinely committed to our linguistic and cultural diversity.
mr president, commissioner gabriel, almost eight years ago a servant girl was starting her erasmus adventure here in brussels. this gave me international experience, but also my first insight into the work of the european institutions. like me, the erasmus+ programme has changed the lives of millions of young europeans. a young person who studies or trains abroad will not only increase his experience and knowledge but also his chances of finding a good job. but these opportunities cannot be reserved only for those with more resources. that is why, in the employment committee, we have given priority to the development of the 'inclusion' chapter, which will allow people with fewer opportunities to participate in the programme and provide more grants, including advance payments for those who need it to pay the initial costs. in addition, the integration of the lifelong learning approach, through the strengthening of vocational training and the integration of adult learners, opens up a new range of possibilities by allowing a more heterogeneous group of citizens to participate in the programme. in short, a programme that will create more and better europe and contribute to greater european integration.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner gabriel, thank you for coming; i also thank michaela šojdrová, our rapporteur on this report which we are voting on today as final, and of course the other colleagues who have taken part. i'm going to focus on some elements that we haven't mentioned. in addition to expressing my satisfaction with the agreement reached, the commissioner was right to say that this programme must be a flagship programme - she used the expression 'flagship' - as i think we all agree that the erasmus programme which we have just discussed and approved is a flagship programme. but of course, to be or to achieve this status, it is also necessary to put the funding at a much more comparable level. this programme has only 1 000 million euro - a far cry from the erasmus programme, although it has increased by 15%. and in that sense, if we really want to demonstrate that commitment - and also considering that the erasmus programme mainly benefits university students - we should, i think, put much more emphasis on this programme, by increasing its funding and seeking synergies with national civil services.
mr president, artificial intelligence, especially when it relates to fundamental freedoms or rights, must achieve the highest levels of compliance with ethical standards. education is a clear case: it must be considered, within the division established by the commission itself, as a high-risk sector and therefore be controlled from the outset to the development of technologies that can be used to improve education, to improve experience, but never to replace the relationship that education too must have, the people who are educated, with educators, with human beings: this possibility must never be replaced by the use of technology. in the same way, when we talk about the cultural and audiovisual sector, the implications of the use of these techniques, the change in the ecosystem, can be so great that we need to make a more specific second reading in this sector, and that is what this report also requires in some way, and this is an aspect i want to emphasize. and finally, we have digital literacy: it's not just about having digital skills, it's about understanding deeply what this phenomenon entails, and therefore i also want to highlight that need that we have to introduce into education this understanding of the change that we are just observing in its maximum dimension.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already done so. the culture committee naturally asks different questions than the industry, employment or consumer committees. but the eu's ai strategy is not just about the liability issues of self-driving cars, to simplify matters further. think of the election manipulation of cambridge analytica, machines that win literary competitions and now distribute more weather reports than the weather reports written by themselves. it is clear that a sociopolitical approach to a european ai strategy is overdue. the use of ai in education, culture and media is rife with digital gender gaps. studies show that one in ten women in the eu has experienced some form of cyber violence since the age of 15. the use of ai can block, discriminate or influence opinions by using data without consent. the report now calls on the commission to consider recognising education as a high-risk area in its ai strategy. the commission is also proposing to amend the white paper on ai so that our culture, our democratic dialogue of the future, can also take place with an ethical, transparent and non-discriminatory ai. our group will certainly support this approach.
mr president, one year ago i read weapons of math destruction by cathy o’neil. she noticed that companies started ai for good reasons but forgot those reasons in due process. a month ago, the commission proposed legislation for ethical ai and today the report adds what is missing to the commission proposal, especially in paragraphs 18 and 45. the first concern is the use of ai in advertising. the advertising business harms privacy, harms competition and above all, harms our democracy. that’s why this calls for strictly limiting personalised ads and tracking of uses. the second concern is biometric recognition. as the reclaim your face movement makes clear, it endangers our society and our children are the first ones to suffer. this calls for a ban on facial recognition in educational use: no more online proctoring, no more cameras on school premises. let’s use ai only for good reasons.
mr president, the report on artificial intelligence in education, culture and the audiovisual sector is a good one, and i’d like to congratulate all the colleagues involved. the rapid and exponential development of artificial intelligence in a growing number of areas poses many challenges. in this regard, the report is the first one to take a socio—political approach to an artificial-intelligence strategy, to democracy, inclusion, securing freedom of speech and data security by looking at education, culture and media in the development and obligations of ai. nevertheless, i would like to raise a couple of issues: first, the importance of stressing non—discrimination, eliminating gender stereotypes, and developing inclusivity, also in data collection and its development; and, second, a gain for linguistic diversity and language learning. in this regard, we advocate for ai as a tool offering a specific potential for innovation, specifically for lesser—used languages in europe.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr executive vice-president of the commission, mankind has done something historic: in an unprecedented public-private effort, we have succeeded in designing, in record time, highly effective vaccines against a disease that has already claimed millions of lives, but this achievement may be overshadowed by our management. it is hard to understand that while in some countries we are beginning to wonder whether to vaccinate our children, the 29 poorest countries have received only 0.3% of the available doses. the european union must support a temporary suspension of patents, and if they don't do it for the common good, do it for their own interest, because until we vaccinate everyone, no one will be safe: supply chains will continue to be affected, the economic crisis will become chronic, mobility restrictions will persist and new variants of the virus will continue to arrive, here too. europe must be part of the solution: let us assume this historic responsibility and act with global awareness and commitment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have already discussed in this house last year how we can make the vaccine available worldwide. and we debated that the european commission and the european union have an obligation to help south africa and india agree to the patent abolition in the wto. nothing has happened since then! after joe biden's announcement, i, along with 150 colleagues, wrote a letter to the commission, urging them to really get involved in the patent abolition now. nothing happened! but nothing really happened? i'm not going to. since may 6, another 200,000 people have died from corona worldwide. and we have to stop just watching. and, mr simon, this is not about economic value, it is about protecting and saving human lives all over the world, and we have a responsibility as europeans. we must act now whatever it takes now!
(introduction of speech with microphone off) ...no vaccine doses in sight today. over 100 emerging and developing countries are asking us in europe to agree to a knowledge transfer to build vaccine production capacity globally as quickly as possible and to start innovation with all market participants. the objection is that this would be an interference with patent protection and thus with the right to property, and would thus undermine the incentive for future innovation. but the international community of states agreed in 1996 on a global fundamental right to life-saving medicines, and that now obliges us to take the most effective path to make vaccines available. and let's give generously to the developers so that they can then tell the rest of the world how to make vaccines cheaply. it's not just about the patent, it's about the production technology. because only then will these vaccines be available worldwide, and at the same time the incentive for innovation - and the material incentive - will not be taken away. paying for patents and releasing patents go together, and then we can stop this pandemic -- even in the poorest countries of the world.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the issue here is very simple. between saving lives and protecting business, the european union prefers to protect business, even if it is in an increasingly isolated position. the excuse that has been used is that other countries do not have the capacity to produce. you don't have any? what is this arrogance of the european union? the european union has gone from being a small and insignificant place to the top of the world's vaccine production in less than a year. yes, if the conditions are right, other countries have the possibility of producing vaccines. if human lives are at risk, why protect big pharma? pfizer, astrazeneca and the like are in very good health and have increased their profits brutally in the last year. the money for research into these vaccines was mostly public. that's why the vaccine has to be a commons. the european union is increasingly isolated: germany to defend biontech, france to defend sanofi and portugal, mr minister, to defend what? the portuguese presidency has put cooperation with african countries on the agenda, but when the moment of truth comes it always ends up defending germany, which is strange!
madam president, the european people's party has been dismantling the most populist leftist topics with facts for decades throughout europe. i can think of several: massive tax increases, which do not increase revenue and end up burdening the economy and destroying jobs. now we have to unpack one more new topic: patent liberalisation will not increase vaccine production or save more lives. that promise is a swindle of the citizens, because those who propose it know perfectly well that the liberalization of patents will bring research to a standstill. and the one who will really suffer is the whole of humanity. covid will be defeated, but other pandemics will come. and if we take away any reward for effort in research, no one will want to spend time and money saving lives in the years to come. let us not preach or engage in populist policies that could compromise the world's health and pharmaceutical research and development. the european people's party proposes real and effective solutions to support countries in emergency situations. we must continue to lead the export of vaccines, because one of our great european values is solidarity. we must rely on technology transfer and investment to increase production. we must support more licensing agreements and get the united states to lift export restrictions. and let's not kid ourselves: china and russia would be the only third-world countries that would produce vaccines using open patents and would leverage that power to exert geopolitical influence globally and reduce our global leadership in health care.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president dombrovskis, we are here 'to be clear' because of a political maneuver by the president of the united states to conceal a bloody fact. the reality is that the united states has been operating under a ban on the export of vaccines and components until now. that's the reality. they haven't exported anything. europe has exported 200 million doses. the solution proposed by the american president is not a solution to our problem. we have an urgent problem, which is vaccination, now, in the midst of a humanitarian crisis. making proposals that no one on the left side of the house has suggested that they go create more doses during the year 2021 is useless and creates a very serious problem for the future. the problem is who's going to be doing vaccine research in the future if they think intellectual property is going to be eliminated. i support, mr vice-president, the proposals made by the european commission, both to increase exports - that is the key, to remove those bans - and to allow licences as widely as possible and to support the covax mechanism. thank you very much for those proposals.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, commissioner reynders, the report we are debating and voting on today has a broad consensus among the political forces and a clear message to the council: the revision of the fra regulation cannot wait any longer. the work of the fundamental rights agency is indispensable for the protection and promotion of human rights in the union, but its mandate, as well as its resources, have been short-lived in the face of all the new challenges and threats. it is therefore necessary to revise its regulation and to exploit its full potential. the commission proposal is a good starting point. we agree with her that the agency should cover all the competences of the european union, in line with the treaties, and that the current five-year programme creates unnecessary thematic constraints and deprives it of ambition. the commission's proposal is not a simple one, but it is a very important one. i would like to highlight three of them. firstly, we must strengthen the mandate of the agency in the fight against anti-gypsyism, anti-semitism and islamophobia. and also against racism against black people and people of color. secondly, the future review should include a requirement on gender balance in the bodies of the agency and ensure that at least one member of the scientific committee has experience in gender equality. and finally, the fra must be able to evaluate, on its own initiative, european union legislation and play an active role in the future mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. parliament and the commission are ready and we insist: the reform of the fra cannot wait any longer.
madam president, i believe that the proposal for a regulation can improve the protection of fundamental rights in europe, but it has some shortcomings. the first is that the gender perspective is not incorporated in all the reports produced by the agency. the second is that the lack of data on violence and discrimination on the grounds of sex and gender in the european union should be addressed by further analysis and reporting. the third is that we should know to what extent european women are accessing means and services to guarantee their sexual and reproductive rights. there are places where abortion is prohibited and others where it is permitted but not guaranteed. in spain there are provinces where abortion has never been legally performed because health centers abuse conscientious objection. finally, it would be important to strengthen coordination and joint work with other bodies specialising in equality, such as the eige, for example, in the european union, or other state and intra-state bodies. i think the agency should be more porous and have more ramifications.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, i too am the son of immigrants: i know what you are talking about. some words in french to congratulate our rapporteur, sylvie guillaume, and thank her for her excellent work. ladies and gentlemen, despite the need for a holistic approach to common migration, legal migration has hardly been part of the design of the union's migration policy in recent years. and it was a mistake. because whether the european far right likes it or not, legal migration is still the best instrument to ensure an effective and orderly management of immigration that avoids, among other things, tragedies such as those we are experiencing these days in ceuta. but it also allows us to fight the mafia that smuggles migrants, to respect their human rights, to guarantee equal treatment and to combat labour exploitation and, finally, to promote the integration and inclusion of migrants in our societies. the contribution of migrants - the vice-president said - is undeniable and we will continue to need them in the years ahead to address the shortcomings of our labour market. however, as our rapporteur sylvie points out, we have so far only made timid and fragmented progress on labour migration and a global approach is needed to correct the existing inconsistencies, addressing local, regional and national needs, with a special emphasis on gender equality. finally, i would like to point out - and the commissioner has said this - that we did indeed close the review of the blue card with the portuguese presidency and the commission on monday. i will not go into details - i will do so at another time - but what is important is to link this directive with the other legal migration instruments in a harmonised framework, which should be a priority, and i encourage the commission and the council to continue to move in this direction and to explore new ways of promoting circular migration.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report and all the members who have made it possible, because we have achieved an ambitious and comprehensive report in the field of legal labour migration: in addition to recognising the role of migrants and their positive impact on society, we have not only achieved recognition of labour exploitation and the unequal treatment suffered by many migrants, but we are also calling for action on this reality. many of the migrants work in precarious sectors, as temporary workers in the construction sector or as domestic workers - a sector where the majority are women - and we now need to seize the moment to make real what we have achieved in the report: we need a european legislative framework for migration where all these issues are addressed from a progressive perspective. although this work is going in the right direction, i also want to stress that we need progressive policies on migration in general to avoid rights violations and discrimination like the ones we are seeing these days in ceuta, where there are hot returns of minors and the deployment of the army at the border. this humanitarian disaster is, once again, the result of the european union's disastrous migration and asylum policy, and the commission has a double responsibility in this respect, because it cannot at the same time allow states that violate human rights to blackmail the union as they are doing.
madam president, please. the report is also completely flawed in its assumptions and assumptions. it assumes that migration is the only solution when a member state is facing demographic or labour market problems, for example. that's a mistake, because there are other solutions. for example, hungary has a very successful family support system and a tax system. this could be an example for the whole of europe. large and rich european countries are also unable to cope with the social, cultural and public security challenges posed by mass migration. the attitude that multiculturalism is necessarily better than a homogenous, traditional european culture is false. if a country wishes to sacrifice its own identity and culture, let it do so, but let each nation decide for itself. there is no need for european-level rules on labour migration. this is strictly a member state competence and should remain so. this is especially true when the pandemic has caused unemployment to rise across europe. i think we europeans should help people get jobs, not flood the continent with unskilled immigrants.
i have to say, madam president, it is certainly necessary for citizens to understand that in times of high unemployment and in the midst of an economic crisis caused by the pandemic, we are talking about how to bring skilled workers from other parts of the world to europe. it is therefore very important to say that we are not talking about skilled workers in areas where we have skilled workers in europe, but about areas where there is a shortage of skilled workers. the point is that the global competition in which europe is increasingly losing ground - also due to the strengthening of china and other parts of the world - includes competition for the best minds. and australia, the united states, canada are leading the way today. and that is why it is so important that on the one hand there continue to be national programmes, such as the red, white and red card in austria, but that there also be european programmes to attract skilled workers. of course, it is particularly important for people coming to europe to stay that our values - democracy and the rule of law, human dignity and freedom, equality between men and women - are really respected and taken into account by the people who come. in this sense, it is also part of europe's strategic autonomy, its resilience to crises and the conditions for future prosperity and european strength in a global context that we become stronger in this competition.
madam president, the question is: do we want to grow as a continent, as an economy, or do we prefer the status quo? i consider the fact that our union is attractive to third country nationals as a positive thing. i’d rather address the challenge of having many wanting to be part of us, rather than no one wanting to have anything to do with us. wanting to grow means that we must find systems that attract talent. as sylvie’s report excellently highlights, the eu is lagging behind in the global competition for talent. europe will also see the biggest drop in natural population in the coming years, while evidence shows how essential it is to attract the skills that are lagging. the blue card directive, for instance, strengthened this week, still falls short of offering a robust system with a safe pathway to legal migration in a circular manner which fights exploitation. permit me to thank the thousands of third country workers across the union and in my country, from professional nurses and doctors fighting the pandemic, some of whom arrived on our shores in flimsy dinghies, to the most humble street sweepers. together, we are strengthening our union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's failure to combat settlement immigration is clear. each passing month brings further proof. in may, the spanish enclave of ceuta was hit by an unprecedented influx of migrants: 6,000 in a single day. instead of reacting, the european parliament has no better choice than to vote for the strik report, which is 100% concerned with the rights of migrants and 0% concerned with the defence of our civilization. in this context, i very much welcome the guillaume report on the creation of new european pathways for legal economic migration. it is true that this time we are talking about labour immigration, not settlement immigration, and i recognise that europe needs immigrant workers in certain sectors of activity. but it is up to the states, not the european union, to organise themselves to bring the workers they need home. it would be a grave mistake to leave this competence to the union, which is incapable of exercising it realistically. the william report proves that. he says the migration is normal; no, it is an anomaly when it is not agreed by the host state. he says that europe is not an attractive enough destination for migration; no, she's already too old. he says that the creation of european economic migration routes will reduce settlement immigration; no, it will simply be an additional suction pump. he says that a pool of talent for europe must be built abroad; no, emptying africa of its elites would be the best way to further destabilize the african continent and increase our migration flood. please let the states handle their economic immigration. they'll do it a lot better than you.
mr president, labour migration is not a matter for the eu. it is up to the member states themselves to decide whether they wish to admit additional workers from third countries. yet the eu now wants to intervene. the commission has put forward a proposal for a common labour migration policy, using labour market bottlenecks in member states and regions which are very different from each other as an argument. all political groups in the european parliament are served by: the social democrats with the prospect of a common labour policy, the conservatives with the prospect of cheap labour and the liberals and greens with more powers for the eu. but where does that leave the voter? i would therefore like to emphasize that this proposal is completely unnecessary, since the policy on labour migration can also be extended by the member states themselves. the fact that this is not happening shows that there is simply no support for this enlargement in certain national parliaments. this is precisely why the advocates of enlargement are now trying to settle the matter at european level. how democratic is that?
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, i have said this on many occasions and i will continue to do so. legal migration is a value which we must protect and which, far from being negative, is necessary and can be tremendously positive. unfortunately, so many times we use and relate the term "migration" to irregular immigration. the one we are living in ceuta and melilla these days. the one we have experienced in the canary islands, without anyone in europe being the least bit concerned, not even to provide any solution in view of the spanish government's disastrous management of this crisis situation. illegal immigration must be prosecuted, as must the mafia and those who use human beings to achieve ends or punish actions they do not share. but legal migration must be protected, because it serves to attract talent. the blue card directive can be an important element in this regard, in order to boost economies, to meet labour market needs and to help generate growth, innovation and prosperity. it can also be an element of cooperation with third countries and, without a doubt, a tool for reducing illegal immigration. i am fully aware of the competence of the member states, especially in the field of employment. but i am also concerned about the need for the european union, within its responsibilities in the field of a common immigration policy, to be able to bring together, harmonize and simplify a regulation which is today scattered and fragmented.
mr president, commissioner, who determines what is economically necessary, why are there shortages in the labour market and why is the widespread exploitation of migrant workers by employers in logistics, agriculture, the meat industry and the temporary employment sector not being tackled? as long as workers are being exploited, we must ensure that labour migration from third countries is allowed on the basis of skills rather than qualifications. we cannot just give in to the lobby of the employment agencies. we do not want people to burn out in our labour markets and be left behind. people deserve good working conditions, a fair wage and decent housing. we must ensure this first of all if we are to achieve a europe that works.
madam president, in the midst of the immigration invasion, a report on how to encourage immigration, the arrival of low-skilled immigrants, the intra-european mobility of non-community residents is being brought to the table. - thank you. the globalist elites thank you on behalf of cheap labor, unemployment, low wages and the davos forum. while this is being debated, eight thousand people have illegally stormed spain's borders in ceuta and melilla, and in spain 37% of young people are unemployed. resolutions like these are what promote the so-called effect: they promise jobs to millions of people who want to storm our borders, while they drown our european workers and businesses with absurd taxes and rules. the labour law is a matter for the states, and it is for the states to decide which immigration can be absorbed according to their interests and needs. what we need to do is to create stable jobs, re-industrialize europe, improve workers' wages by reducing the burden on businesses, apply the principle of community preference and, above all, not spend europeans' money on promoting population replacement.
madam president, now it is time to demonize european companies: they are so bad that they generate wealth, economic growth and employment and contribute to the true sovereignty of nations. they like to sanction, ban and take away the power of the states. we should be talking about measures to tackle the relocation of european industry, to reduce the political expenditure that stifles our productive sectors with taxes, to support their competitiveness, to combat illegal competition from third countries, but they prefer to talk about ecocide, new sanctions, agenda 2030 or more powers for a european public prosecutor's office that has not yet started to walk. we must say no: no to more obligations and burdens on our companies and workers, no to our companies and workers being prohibited from producing what we then import from china or morocco without meeting the same environmental requirements as we demand of our producers, but yes to preserving our natural heritage of invasive species, yes to protecting the wealth of our rivers and seas by allowing our fishermen to do what they have done for centuries, yes to boosting farming and livestock farming to achieve food sovereignty, yes to the traditional way of life of the rural communities of europe. but this is not mentioned: they just want to punish.
madam president, thank you to all the colleagues who have worked on this ambitious and necessary report. environmental crime should be one of the priorities of the union, as it is a transnational phenomenon with very long-term effects, affecting all citizens. the fundamental rights of present and future generations are being violated. it is clear that the existing legislation on environmental crime is too lax and its enforcement is even more lax. and that is why it is important to tackle this problem as soon as possible, to renew the legislation in force and make it more demanding. and also to ensure, through effective and transparent monitoring, that companies comply with the regulations to prevent further cases like, for example, the one at the zaldibar landfill in the basque country, where, in addition to the environmental crime, two people lost their lives. or the case of lindane pollution, also in the basque country, and in many other places in the union; a persistent problem, despite being banned in 2008. two examples from the local area highlight the urgent need for action in this area.
mr president, the report we are discussing substantially improves the shortcomings we have found in the commission's proposal. i therefore welcome the fact that parliament's report has extended the scope of application to non-binding acts, so that important measures such as the state aid guidelines themselves are also covered. as regards the personal sphere, i strongly support granting access to information and environmental justice to other members of the public, i.e. citizens, as required by the aarhus convention, and not just environmental ngos, as the commission proposal provided. in addition - and this is a very important point - i particularly support the inclusion of the guarantee that legal proceedings initiated under this regulation will not be prohibitively expensive. the costs of proceedings cannot be a barrier to access to justice. the report by parliament reflects the recommendations of the committee on the implementation of the aarhus convention, which the commission has paradoxically ignored in its proposal. i therefore thank the rapporteurs for their work and ask the rapporteur and the alternative rapporteurs to be firm in their negotiations with the commission and the council, because this convention is the best, if not the only, almost formula we have for citizens to have the strength and the conditions to defend the environment.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, first of all, i would like to congratulate you on the agreement, which contains relevant points for improving and strengthening the technological and industrial capacities for cybersecurity in the european union, maintaining and promoting excellence in research and advancing the building of a safer digital world funded by horizon europe and digital europe, two key programmes within the european union. the constant development of the internet and its exponential use in so many areas of our lives, both in education and the professional and social, make digital security a very necessary issue and on which we depend more and more. given that 42% of the citizens of the european union lack basic digital skills and that we have low digital literacy, it is essential to ensure cybersecurity training and education and to close the digital skills gap that mainly affects women and girls. the report's references to addressing the existing gap and ensuring that the ict community and workers are more balanced and diverse are therefore very much needed. in this regard, digital security skills - which will also be among the most in demand in the labour market - will help to promote an active digital citizenship that can use reliable digital services and tools and know how to protect themselves from cyber risks.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. of course, we are also talking about the network of national competence centres, but also about this european competence centre for cybersecurity. i want to welcome the fact that the first trilogy - there are five trilogies, the last one ended last year, the first trilogy was during the romanian presidency and i congratulate the government at that time - and behold, the end is that this center was nominated to be in romania! commissioner, i am glad that you mentioned in your speech that smes will not be forgotten through this competence centre. i hope they will be supported, because, yes, in the european union we have a lot of smes. unfortunately, not everyone has access to research and innovation, and i really believe that by establishing this center, we can support smes, we can bring research and innovation together, we can have tools that really have a better cyber defense against cyber attacks, because, after all, the development of technology goes hand in hand with cyber attacks. i hope that this centre will be a success, together, if the member states will contribute.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank the house for this exchange and for the consensus i heard on this proposal. the centre will support our efforts to develop the necessary technological capacities to mitigate the risks of cyberattacks. we all know these risks are high and increasing. the centre will also work on an alignment of public investment at national and european level, as well as private investment, by combining forces and avoiding, if possible, duplication and overlaps. i understand that several years were necessary to reach this conclusion, but it is particularly timely to have it now in the context of the recovery and resilience facility, where no less than 20% of our investment is going to digital investments, including cybersecurity. on the basis of policies such as the nis directive, the cybersecurity certification framework and the 5g security toolbox, the commission will continue to work with all the relevant stakeholders to achieve that collective cybersecurity resilience at a time when cybersecurity is more needed than ever.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are basically two ways of tackling tax inequalities, both of which are important: reform of tax rules, as is now being decided or proposed by the commission for example in the area of corporate taxation, but also the uniform application of existing tax law, because unequal application of tax law is unfair. unfortunately, we still have many cases of aggressive tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud in the single market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the taxation of capital. this is why it is so important that tax authorities in europe can work closely together to effectively combat tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. since 1983, there has been a specific eu programme to promote cooperation between tax authorities. the new fiscalis programme will ensure the continuation and deepening of these existing cooperation opportunities until 2027 under the next medium-term financial framework. and we have 269 million euros for the next seven years, mainly for investment in common it systems, in training, cross-border cooperation between tax investigators, exchange of best practices in this field. over the last seven years, €223.2 million has been allocated from the budget to the 'fiscalis' programme. so, if you consider that we had brexit, unfortunately, that's a significant increase in funding. on the other hand, thanks to the 'fiscalis' programme, additional revenue was generated, for example, according to the commission, in 2015 alone, an additional revenue of eur 591 million in recoveries made possible by this programme. so this shows that in one year we're getting the money out, more than double what the whole program actually costs. and this shows how sensible it is to invest in common it systems in particular. it is simply cheaper for the international exchange of tax data to actually develop common it solutions rather than each member country developing different systems for bilateral relations. and it is also good for companies, if they can check, for example, in the vat information exchange system, whether companies in other countries are actually properly registered for vat. this helps in the fight against the very expensive vat fraud - even if for twenty years there has been no real legislative reform. it is therefore important to go further here, and this is particularly important for the area of automatic exchange of information between tax authorities, as provided for in the eu directive on administrative cooperation in tax matters. parliament has worked hard on this in another report and has unfortunately found that there are still many gaps. so we're gonna have to stick with that. in these negotiations - even with a good programme - there are always places where you can do even better. we have made some changes in a good discussion with the commission and the council. firstly, there are now clear priorities on which this cooperation should be directed, namely precisely the fight against aggressive tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud and also the importance of common tax audits, which take place across countries and are much more effective than if information is simply exchanged. we have also made arrangements for representatives of tax authorities from developing countries to participate in this programme. what was particularly important to me, and what we have now in the joint result, is that there are annual progress reports, which also include what shortcomings have been revealed by the cooperation. because that can help us to move forward with the legislation. finally, in the final stage of the legislation, it was still important that we ensure that there is an annual meeting between the members of the european parliament and the council - the council has expressly recognised this, and i thank you for it - namely, an annual meeting to discuss cooperation between the tax authorities and to remedy the shortcomings here. finally, in future, the external experts involved in the programme must not have any conflicts of interest, just as is the case with other expert groups and involvement of experts by european programmes. i am grateful to all my colleagues, to the council, to the commission, for their cooperation and for the progress we have made. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in fact, in our work so far, we have also found that in the area of tax cooperation, eu law is not being respected in a number of places in the area of the directive on administrative cooperation in tax matters. i would ask you again, mr gentiloni, will you now bring infringement proceedings in this area in the future? there is not one, despite the many violations! i think we can no longer afford to ignore european law in times of corona.
member of the commission. – madam president, the new fiscalis programme will build on fiscalis 2020 and its predecessor, which have already proved that they could contribute successfully to enhancing cooperation between tax authorities in europe. the challenges are well known. in the context of the pandemic, the package adopted in july 2020 seeks to boost tax fairness by intensifying the fight against tax abuse, curbing unfair tax competition and increasing tax transparency. yesterday, in this very plenary, we had the opportunity to discuss the new communication on business taxation for the 21st century. however, even the best rules will not unleash their full potential if they are not enabled through fast and constructive cooperation between tax authorities, and here comes the importance of the fiscalis programme. tax authorities still have insufficient capacity and cooperation, both within the eu and with third countries, to carry out their missions effectively and efficiently. there is a need to provide quick and joint responses to problems such as tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, as well as to encompass the challenges related to digitisation and new business models, while reducing unnecessary administrative burden for citizens and businesses in cross—border transactions. the fiscalis programme offers member states a framework within which to develop cooperation activities to increase tax transparency and enhance cooperation. more than 70% of the fiscalis programme budget is used for financing it systems linking national tax administration. the continued operation of these it systems is essential for the exchange of tax information to fight tax fraud, evasion and avoidance. the programme also pursues a less visible but nevertheless very important objective to facilitate and modernise the work of the tax administration, which ultimately should result in a better service and less administrative burden for taxpayers. the commission welcomes the fact that the programme presents a valuable instrument to support and design and implement eu tax policy for the benefit of member states and citizens and business. i take this opportunity to thank parliament for its constructive approach and the outcome of the negotiations and i look forward to continuing on fruitful cooperation with the econ committee. we welcome the fact that as part of the negotiation, the council agreed to make a statement on increased transparency concerning the implementation of eu legislation in the field of fighting against tax fraud, evasion and avoidance. it recognises the added value of annual exchanges of views with the european parliament and the commission on the lesson learned from the fiscalis programme. in conclusion, we welcome the outcome, including the confirmed budget of eur 269 million agreed for the programme and i would like to thank, in particular, rapporteur sven giegold for his strong support and measured contribution to the successful compromise that we have on the table today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a staggering €825 billion of potential tax revenue is lost in the eu every year through tax evasion, tax fraud and tax avoidance. that's 2,000 euros per eu citizen, and that's more than the money we have for the nextgenerationeu construction plan. this shows the enormous need for action in the european union, and effective information exchange is an important element in this. the eu's fiscalis programme is hopefully putting an end to dubious tax practices once and for all by increasing the exchange of information, developing it tools and establishing a common european tax audit. the european parliament has done a lot with our chief negotiators: widening the scope of the directive through priority measures to draw lessons from luxleaks and the panama papers, a better assessment and reporting system and stronger tax controls on multinational companies. in the next financial period we have 50 million euros more than in the last long-term eu budget for this fight against tax fraud a total of 270 million euros. however, information exchange alone is not enough. the implementation of the laws in all member states, the elimination of unanimity by majority, so that we finally have a fair taxation of digital companies, a common tax base, is urgently needed. there's a lot to do. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
madam president, commissioner, we are having an important debate today, following a relevant agreement also, to improve tax cooperation between the states. the fiscalis programme has worked well in the last budget period, and the evidence of this is the improvement in the budgetary allocation for the seven years ahead, which should help to improve the trust, the relationship and, finally, the joint work of the european tax agencies. but this cooperation is not enough, and yesterday we were discussing here the commission's communication on a common corporate tax, a common digital tax, the distribution of tax revenues between the various member states and - a not insignificant issue - improving the treatment of debt and equity to reduce the indebtedness of european companies. i think the mood is changing. i believe that the debate in europe is changing; that we are playing the european social model. and i want to send a message of optimism to the citizens of europe, and that is that, clearly, things are changing and they are changing in the right direction.
madam president, commissioner, the fiscalis programme is a good programme, as has been said by the various members who have spoken in this debate. it is a good programme because it pursues a very necessary purpose, which is cooperation between the various tax agencies of the member states to work on the fight against tax evasion. but not only that, it's already something very important. it also works with the objective of modernizing the tax administrations, to digitize them and make it easier for entrepreneurs, smes, and the self-employed to meet their tax obligations. it also works to promote the exchange of information necessary to avoid, for example, double taxation, which is something that must also be fought against. so it's a very good program that works to get that cooperation. on the other hand, it is a very good programme to strengthen the single market. if there is one essential thing, it is that we can operate in the various member states with the greatest possible ease. so it's a very good program in that sense. finally, as it stands, it is a programme which seeks to promote competitiveness between the member states. and this is something i support and which i consider essential, because good taxation is essential to attract investment and it is essential to make our companies as competitive as possible and to enable them to create as many jobs as possible. what i would like to mention is that when we talk about this kind of tax cooperation, we are talking about trying to avoid aggressive taxation. i would like to understand that when the commission speaks of aggressive taxation, it means when there are very high rates or when there is too much tax burden on businesses, the selfemployed and citizens. i understand that this is also what the fiscalis programme is aiming at - and i hope it is what it is aiming at - namely to promote tax competition between the member states and to enable taxes to be lowered and the tax burden to be reduced. i would therefore like to thank the commissioner and, in agreement with the socialist member, to convey a message of optimism: good taxation can be achieved in the european union and, i would add, low taxation can be achieved in the european union.
madam president, in the face of the growth of anti-gypsy policies and the racism of the far right, political will and democratic commitment are essential. the far right doesn't just hate foreigners, it hates the different, even if it's not foreign. they want to impose a homogeneous europe in their own image and likeness: they pretend to be the perfect european model and are nothing but a monstrosity that no one wants to look like. in europe there is structural anti-gypsyism and there is another kind of anti-gypsyism, instigated by the supremacism of certain political groups and their tentacles. the result is that for centuries we have had european gypsies who are still condemned to poverty, lack of resources and criminalization. in the face of this psychopathic discourse, we must defend the universality of rights and put an end to the apartheid of the roma population: public policies must be articulated with the active participation of their recipients, avoiding paternalism and clientelism, more transversal and intersectional policies to be funded. we call for a serious commitment to end white supremacy and racism in europe, led by the far right.
author. – madam president, the main aim of this urgency is to strongly demand an immediate and unconditional release of all armenian prisoners – military and civilian – detained during and after the most recent war from last year between azerbaijan and armenia. baku has to refrain from any arbitrary detentions in the future and to fully implement the tripartite ceasefire statement, which foresees an exchange of prisoners of war, hostages and all other detainees, as well as the remains of fatalities. despite the various definitions azerbaijan uses for these people – calling them criminals or terrorists – they are all protected by the geneva conventions and international humanitarian law and should be returned to their families. azerbaijan should assist the european court of human rights by providing it with reliable information on the detainees and their well—being. it should refrain from any mistreatment or humiliation of these people. independent and effective investigations have to be carried out of all credible allegations of grave breaches of the geneva conventions and other violations of international law and war crimes. baku should also close down the so-called ‘trophy park’, which exhibits degrading and dehumanising wax figures of armenian soldiers, and which further intensifies long—lasting hostilities and undermines the trust between the two countries. i would like to make reminder that the european parliament has always tried to be as objective as possible. if we had reliable information that there were currently any azerbaijani citizens in armenian custody, we would be demanding the same things from yerevan: immediate and unconditional release. every human life is precious and has to be preserved. very soon this house will discuss the country reports on armenia and azerbaijan. we are going to evaluate if our demands of today have been fulfilled and then, accordingly, the texts of the future reports will be adopted.
author. – madam president, regrettably, conflicts and war in the south caucasus are leading the way against dialogue, cooperation and peace. the most recent autumn war between armenia and azerbaijan is a tragedy resulting in grave suffering for both nations. everything possible must be done to move from conflict to peaceful coexistence. release of prisoners of war, hostages and other detainees is a way forward. no matter how many prisoners of war remain, human life is sacred. international commitments to the safety, health and dignity of prisoners must be upheld. one of the consequences of the conflict is the deployment of the so-called russian peacekeepers to nagorno-karabakh, which raises another equally worrisome security concern. russia’s presence might turn into a long-term process. the european union was a passive observer of the conflict and did not use its influence to prevent it. the european union must initiate and actively participate in the peace process and help its highly valued eastern partners, armenia and azerbaijan, to meet the needs of their people, which include: confidence building, cooperation and a lasting peace.
author. – madam president, the attack against nagorno—karabakh by the azeri government ended up on an agreement between the parties that has not been respected by azerbaijan. around 200 armenians are still held in captivity by azerbaijan and these prisoners of war are being mistreated by the azeri military and there are allegations that prisoners have been subjected to extra—judicial killings or enforced disappearances that constitute war crimes. it’s time for this parliament to demand from azerbaijan the immediate and unconditional release of all armenian prisoners detained during and after the conflict, full implementation of the ceasefire agreement and to refrain from further military intrusion in armenian territory. as the joint motion for a resolution states, a long—standing political negotiated solution based on the principles of non—use of force, territorial integrity and the equal rights and self—determination of peoples, is crucial to determine the future status of artsakh. a comprehensive political solution will be needed. but meanwhile, we have to expose the turkish—azeri aggression against armenia and nagorno—karabakh.
mr president, commissioner, for more than a year now, our european farmers have been facing a series of obstacles: the trade war with the united states, a pandemic and now terrible frosts. in france, many regions were affected by this exceptional cold wave, causing significant damage to our fruit and wine crops, and resulting in a severe loss of income for producers. national support is insufficient to overcome these agricultural calamities. the current situation shows once again the importance of strong risk management tools that can help our farmers to cope with these large losses. the reform of the common agricultural policy will make progress on these issues, giving more flexibility to member states, but also consolidating the progress made under the omnibus regulation and the transitional regulation. however, progress is too slow and the cap risk management toolbox will remain optional for member states. i regret that the resistance of some of us in this house is preventing us from going further, especially as global warming will unfortunately be conducive to the repetition of this type of event. i also regret that the member states are not more ambitious in setting up a genuine crisis reserve. we need to equip ourselves with the means to support our producers in these worst times, but also to give them the means to move their production towards greater resilience when necessary.
mr president, commissioner, in addition to the 15 months of pandemic that the sector has been suffering, the tariffs imposed by the united states on certain spanish and european products, such as wine, all this must be added to the frosts this spring which, especially in my country, have had an impact on such important sectors as wine, with important designations of origin, or bone fruit and almonds. in my country, the main wine-growing areas have suffered from these frosts in april, and so they have been affected. i am talking about areas such as navarre, la rioja or the province of álava; also castilla y león and castilla-la mancha, with important designations of origin, such as ribera del duero, toro, or other types of designations also of great relevance. this affectation is added to everything else. add to this the bone fruit and the almond. this results in more than 63 500 hectares affected in spain. we have agricultural insurance there, it's true. we have a strong system of resource management, but it is insufficient, commissioner. it is insufficient because, to these frosts on 63 500 hectares, we must add what they are assuming these last fifteen months. and i want to end with a new thank you to the spanish and european agricultural sector for all the great work they are doing despite the pandemic, despite the tariffs and despite the climate situation.
president, commissioner, snow on the 6th of april! in flanders, such a thing is unthinkable. but last month i was able to witness it in person in my beautiful city of st. truiden. suddenly, our beautiful flowers, which were at their most vulnerable at that moment, were covered in snow. it was beautiful to see, but together with the growers, i held my heart to the effects of the freezing weather and the snow on the cherry, pear and apple harvest. for many nights, our farmers were on deck, setting up the fire pots and waiting in fear. because such a heavy winter sting in the middle of spring, i've never experienced it, commissioner. i have noticed that in recent years i have had to begin my interventions more and more often with the words: i've never been through this before. this year with the snow and the late frost in april, in 2019 remember with the sunburn, in 2016 with the heavy june storm. the droughts have also become more extreme over the past summer. commissioner, as a ships of agriculture i go to the field every time after such a disaster. there are farms that i have had to go in and out of year after year with the verdict of 80 percent damage, 100 percent damage. farmers, the canaries of men who stand crying in their yards, where really where all the reserves are gone, year after year so much damage ... commissioner, you know that! at your hearing in the committee on agriculture you mentioned that in europe 1 000 farms are disappearing every day. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the extreme weather conditions, but also the low prices, the unequal competition and, above all, of course, political decisions for which farmers pay the price, which they cannot control. think of brexit, think of the boycott of russia. of course, that puts pressure on those farm families. we need to stop this trend, be more proud of our farmers and their delicious, fresh products, which they produce every day. we need our farmers. without them, there's no food on our plate. the negotiations on the new cap are still not completed. so, commissioner, i would like to emphasize once again that we need an agricultural policy tailored to the farmer, that innovates and invests, that supports young farmers and that really supports them in the fight against climate change. commissioner, you know me. i am ready to fight with you to make the european farming system viable again.
mr president, i would like to thank mr wallace for his interesting analysis, and i couldn’t agree with him more. that’s the problem: bureaucracy. but, that said, i am very concerned about everybody looking to brussels when something goes wrong. this is not sustainable. it could even cause the collapse of the eu. risk management is something everyone should do. this goes for individuals, families, businesses, farmers, states, and the eu as well. the wine sector in france is going through difficult times. the corona crisis, the decrease of tourism and the trade war with the us have cost billions of euros. it looks as if the cold is the next disaster. vintners have to take a closer look at their strategy to overcome these crises. insurance, refinance and state support have to be considered. but, as this is a strictly national issue, i wonder why are we having a debate about it here in brussels. is it because of the french national elections? and, if so, who will benefit most from european support? macron or le pen?
mr president, commissioner wojciechowski, in recent months frost and extreme weather events have devastated crops and caused millions of dollars in losses for farmers all over europe. we have seen many pictures of farmers setting candles beside their vineyards, setting fires in front of their crops, leaving their skin to grow on their orchards, but the stubbornness of nature has sometimes been more powerful than the efforts of farmers and its effects have been devastating. if we look at the figures from the insurance companies, we see that in spain compensation for weather events has increased by 37% after events such as the storm filomena: in the first quarter of this year alone, payments reached 255 million euros, but there are many farmers who have not been covered by these compensations and are going through a severe crisis. in spain, the situation of many winegrowers is especially serious, as the covid-19 crisis, the closure of the hotel industry or the impact of tariffs, now adds to the weather damage. we therefore ask the european commission to provide exceptional aid for the fruit and wine sectors. farmers are the first to help curb climate change, but they are also the first to suffer its most serious consequences. that is why it is our responsibility to protect them with financial support to enable them to get back on their feet and continue to produce.
mr president, the recent frosts have caused european farmers further losses, which add to all the serious obstacles already known from the last two years of sanctions, covid-19 and surpluses of production. these extreme events, like the one we're dealing with today, are going to be less isolated and more frequent as a result of climate change. i am here to express my solidarity with the primary sector and to acknowledge the fundamental work it is doing. the european commission must take concrete and extraordinary measures to mitigate the adverse effects of climate change. i also recall the request made a couple of months ago by 14 member states - spain among them - and i ask for exceptional funds to be provided for wine growers: the wine sector is one of the most affected by the restrictions that have followed the outbreak of the pandemic and demands the adoption of concrete actions to help rebalance the market, as well as funds to finance them. i would also like to ask the european commission to create a specific fund for climate aid.
mr president, commissioner, smes are essential to both society and the european economy. they employ 100 million people, from the most traditional to the most cutting-edge sectors. furthermore, we know that they have suffered particularly during the pandemic and therefore we call on the eu to update the sme strategy in line with the new circumstances, as has already been done with the industrial strategy, and to adopt an action plan for smes to accompany them in the transition to a digital and sustainable future, strengthening capacity building and reducing the administrative burden as much as possible, without affecting workers' rights, health standards or environmental protection. we also ask the commission to take into account the particular and disproportionate impact that covid-19 has had on women as managers, workers, entrepreneurs, and the barriers that these women encounter in accessing information, tools, financial and technological services, which limit their ability to expand their activities.
chairman of the court, good colleagues! the health crisis, which has lasted for more than a year, and the implementation of various restrictions have put many european companies in a very difficult situation. small and medium-sized enterprises have suffered particularly badly, as has been mentioned here today on several occasions. legislation should be constantly monitored to ensure that the administrative burden does not overburden the administrative capacity of small enterprises and does not impose a disproportionate administrative burden on them. each draft legislative act shall be preceded by an impact assessment, which shall also take into account the potential impact of the proposed act on small enterprises. the existing bureaucracy must be reduced and the existing administrative burden must be reduced accordingly when each new rule is introduced. the european people's party has for years called for the creation of a sme contact and support officer in the european commission. the mandate of this post shall be horizontal and the contact person shall report directly to the president of the commission. more than a year after the crisis began, the commission has been able to create a place by dragging its feet, but unfortunately there are still more questions than answers about the mandate and credibility of the post. the involvement of smes must not be superficial. thank you!
madam president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great thrill for me to be back in strasbourg, the city where our seat is a symbol of europe and its values. we have returned and together economic activity is returning to our countries, gradually and safely. in my country, greece, you know, small businesses are not businesses that employ 250 people. they are small and very small enterprises, and therefore need much less burden in terms of legislative obstacles and much more support, specialised programmes, tailor-made financial instruments, which will be able to boost their digital and energy development, the creation of clusters of similar smes for joint efforts, for joint administrative and accounting support. they need immediate, accessible and understandable technical assistance so that the transformation does not remain on paper, but flourishes and helps the resilience of enterprises and smes in the new era. the time taken for payment from community and national funds needs to be reduced to a minimum, and in particular for delays to have an impact. commissioner schmit, the european union's initiatives are not really reaching the last company in the empire state, in the church, in the artisanal workers' union, in chios, in greece, everywhere. the policy for smes needs to be upgraded and simplified immediately. the appointment of the special envoy for smes can help by suggesting solutions to their daily problems. it is now our opportunity to develop small and mediumsized enterprises into the real heart of the new economy we are supporting in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, the european union has more than 25 million smes, which represents 99% of all the enterprises in the union. they are responsible for the employment of around 100 million people and 56% of the union's gross domestic product. they are, without a doubt, our economic lungs. the coronavirus pandemic has caused the european economy to contract by 6.3% in 2020 and the job creation to plummet. i therefore welcome the emergency fiscal and monetary policies put in place during the crisis. however, it is not enough. and it is not only because of the impact of covid-19 on the solvency and capacity of european companies, but because europe needs a much more ambitious strategy for attracting capital and supporting the creation and development of smes. it is essential to adapt policies to the evolution of the crisis. the commission's 2020 sme strategy and the update of the industrial strategy in may this year are not enough. the regulatory burden must be reduced and the financing options for smes must be increased so that they are not so dependent on bank debt. i therefore call for greater efforts and for greater emphasis to be placed on the importance of working to ensure that there are more smes in the european union and that they are more competitive.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a long journey we are finally debating the report on the commission's biodiversity strategy. i would like to thank the scientists, because they have given us the evidence and the signals that we must act in a clear and decisive way. i also thank the activists, especially the ngos and the young people, especially the young people, to whom i say from here, from the european parliament, do not stop, keep pushing and pushing. to all the speakers on the other side of the table - alexander, soraya, marco, ville, alexandr and nikolaj - thank you very much for your work. the committee on agriculture and rural development, the committee on international trade, the committee on foreign affairs/human rights and the committee on fisheries also gave their opinions. the commission, of course, has always been very supportive of us in this long year of debate. and to all the technical teams in the groups and the secretariat of the committee on the environment, and to comrades mary and sonia, who have done a spectacular job. i wanted the thanks to be recorded and, therefore, this minute for them. what's the report? this report, ladies and gentlemen, is a fairly balanced text, fairly negotiated, fairly agreed, and i therefore ask that we support this text as it stands, as it has come out, with a very large majority in favour, from the committee on the environment. it is a report which supports many of the statements and proposals made by the european commission and which is logically demanding, which also pushes and pushes in some parts which i will now detail. but i say to you: it is worth it and i think that is what those activists i was talking about, the young people, the ngos, want too. i think it is worth supporting the balanced, agreed report as it has come out of the committee. look, seven ideas that we've incorporated: the creation of a law on biodiversity. if we have a european climate law (we will pass it at the next plenary session, in brussels this time), why can't we have a law on biodiversity? a law that makes the objectives binding, that they are mandatory and that also sets us deadlines for the year 2050, but with intermediate steps, for example, in the year 2030. so, a law on biodiversity. the nature recovery plan which the commission will present at the end of the year. we want these objectives of restoration, protection and conservation of nature, of at least 30% of our ecosystems, to be also binding. that, gentlemen, is ambition. and, by the way, also with a specific goal of restoration for pollinators. the floor. for those who are following this debate, and i am sure there are many of you, in addition to all the members, there is no common legislative framework for soil. how is that possible? and we are advocating that the strategy and future legislation of the european union should take this into account. and, in addition, also a strategy on desertification in the european union. we believe it's a priority and it needs to be addressed. there is a planetary crisis, not just a climate crisis, and the planetary crisis is a climate crisis and a biodiversity crisis. that is why we are calling for a long-term eu action plan on climate and biodiversity. it really does not make sense any longer to deal with these issues and to approach them politically, also here in this parliament, separately. inspector, this is pointless. a joint action plan is needed. right to a healthy environment. i do not know if you have noticed this, but there is no fundamental right to a healthy environment. it is a principle, ladies and gentlemen, a principle, but it is not a right, and what we are asking for in this report, and the committee has supported it with a very large number of votes, is that it should be a fundamental right, that it should be in the charter of fundamental rights. the green erasmus. we believe it is very important that we can promote education through conservation and restoration projects of ecosystems and that we involve students from the educational systems, from the university systems, in these exchanges to protect and preserve nature. i would like to conclude this seventh point, and before i close my speech, with the forests, which are somewhat the subject of the controversy and the division of geographical and ideological opinions we have in this house. i think the report is, as i said, balanced and moderate. and i think it's appropriate to prioritize the protectionist, conservationist, sustainable vision over more forestry, more industrial management. and i think that is the right view in a biodiversity strategy, in a report from this house, the european parliament, which is a world pioneer institution in environmental preservation. and so i think that vision, which tells us to protect the primary forests, the old forests, is the one that has to prevail. and so i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to look at this debate, to study the amendments carefully and to vote against and to support the report that has come out of the committee on the environment. i think we are asking for a lot of commitments, especially from the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. i think that we must also offer them understanding and time, because we must also defend, dear comrade isabel, social cohesion. i believe in it, we believe in it, and therefore when we talk about ambition, we talk about realistic ambition and possible ambition. and that is why we say to all these sectors, from the european parliament, that we understand them and that we will support them, that a transition must be made, but that the transition must be sustainable and also social. i would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that i believe we have had a year to do a balanced, moderate job, representing a very large number of groups in this house, and i think it is important that this house endorses what has come out of the committee.
mr president, we are all united in the quest to preserve and increase biodiversity in the european union, but i do not think that the best way to achieve this is through unrealistic objectives, unjustified attacks on the cap or a total lack of recognition and empathy for farmers, herders or hunters, who, with their respective activities, are guardians of biodiversity. to build a credible strategy, we must not attack the agricultural or fisheries sectors, as vice-president timmermans is accustomed to doing, but we must value the efforts being made by those sectors. the biggest threat to biodiversity is the abandonment of farmland and depopulation of the countryside because agriculture is not profitable. and it's not because there are more and more unscientific green obligations, more costs and more imbalances in the value chain. there is room for improvement, but changes to our agri-food model will only succeed if we give the sector reasonable timeframes and adequate funding to deal with the transition, such as in the area of plant protection products, where viable alternatives must be provided so that farmers can continue to produce.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the customs union of the european union has become one of the cornerstones of our single market by maintaining the security of the european union's borders and also protecting our european citizens from prohibited and dangerous goods such as weapons, drugs or counterfeit products. but also in the face of setbacks like environmental issues, health issues, and so on. in 2019, european union customs intercepted €760 billion worth of counterfeit and potentially dangerous goods. if we look at what kind of counterfeit goods were coming across our borders, we mainly find cigarettes, counterfeit watches, toys or clothes. and, by far, the country that had the most seizures was china. i therefore think it is important that this financial instrument is budgeted at over eur 1 billion in the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework and we also think it should be retroactive, because it is essential that it takes account of two important issues mentioned in the report. first, to ensure an equivalent level of control at all the borders of the european union. it is no use having totally different customs or different standards which lead companies to try to enter through one port or another. and secondly, to enable the customs authorities of the member states to finance the purchase, maintenance and upgrading of customs control equipment. it is important, and the report stresses this, that we commit ourselves to the digitisation of all our customs. it is also important that throughout the customs union we avoid any weaknesses in the european union and have safer products on our internal market which comply with european rules. because the lives and daily lives of many european citizens also depend on it. i simply want to highlight the important value of customs in the single market and in the daily lives of all european citizens. what this report does is to advocate safer customs, more digitalised customs and customs that look to the future of european citizens.
mr president, the urgent adoption and implementation of the eu digital covid certificate proves that the european union can react quickly and reflexively for the benefit of european citizens when there is political will and coordination. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. my country, greece, is leading the way and is proud of two things: the eu digital covid certificate started as an idea and bears the stamp of the greek prime minister, kyriakos mitsotakis, but, besides, greece is among the first countries to implement it since june 1 with consistency and reliability. greece is restarting tourism for european citizens in a timely manner and ensuring high standards of safety as required by the health protocols in the post-pandemic era. my country is leading the way in all of europe and ensuring the safest tourist destination for millions of european citizens and beyond. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are protected from the risks of the virus and that the european union's citizens are protected from the risks of the virus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is only two months since the european commission introduced the covid certificate to make it easier for european citizens to travel within the union. today in record time, with the final approval by parliament, the covid certificate becomes a reality and will be available before the summer as we promised. the certificate is another step towards a return to normal. it is not a requirement to get vaccinated, although we continue to believe that the vaccine is the only effective weapon we have to fight the virus, but a tool that allows us to travel safely without endangering the health of others. a simple instrument which, in order to guarantee one of the pillars of the union, the free movement of persons, lays down the same rules for all. today that is not the case and the babble about different procedures, measures and instruments between states has only created confusion and discouragement among citizens. we want to overcome all this, to show that europe is emerging from this emergency not as it entered it, that is, with a diversified approach to implementing the measures to contain the contagion, but with a common and coordinated instrument. member states will therefore have to comply with the provisions of the regulation, refrain from imposing further unilateral travel restrictions on holders of a covid certificate and ensure the free movement of european citizens within the schengen area. we need to work together to send a message of clarity and at the same time of confidence to the citizens, to tell them that it is possible to start travelling again and that europe is starting again.
mr president, commissioner, the european union covid certificate is our union's answer to recovering travel and tourism throughout the european union in a safe way and on the basis of health criteria, and not never on the basis of political criteria. that is why, after a long and difficult journey, i am delighted that we can finally ratify an agreement between this house and the member states for its implementation at the very beginning of the summer season. but, nevertheless, our work does not end here today. if we really want to restore mobility and help transport and tourism to recover, we still have very important issues to deal with and resolve. mr commissioner, in view of the probable application and approval of the certificate this week and our determination to restore mobility on the continent, i would like to extend my hand to you to solve the enormous problem facing tourism at the moment, especially in countries like my own, spain. i am referring precisely to the continuing blockade of british tourists from travelling to europe by the uk government. ladies and gentlemen, the recent decision by the uk - the main source of tourists to europe - by the boris johnson government is based on an unnecessarily restrictive approach which excludes all eu states from the list of countries to travel to. and i fear that this decision is not based on strictly health criteria and that it is once again in the interests of politics. i therefore call on the european commission and the council to lead a common front with this parliament to urge the government of boris johnson to adopt measures based on purely health criteria and to restore british tourism in those european regions and territories which are in strict control of the pandemic.
mr president, i welcome this coordinated initiative, as it will help bring back normality to people’s lives, especially before the summer period that is crucial for tourism. it was disappointing to see that governments were opposing ensuring free testing, so i still call on them to rethink this. all citizens should get the digital certificate – also those who, for different reasons, do not get vaccinated. free testing would make this happen and would allow everyone to re-start going back to life, travelling and going to restaurants, regardless of their age or country. let’s not forget that this is in the interest of citizens but also of those services, such as the horeca sector, that had to stop their activities for over a year. so even after the approval of this certificate, we need to remain vigilant and avoid discrimination. authorities cannot discriminate between citizens who get the vaccine and those who get the test or the proof of recovery.
mr president, tomorrow we will vote on the covid certificate and we will once again be left at the door of having a good instrument that serves to help citizens regain their lives and their freedom, and to save the summer season of a punished tourist sector. europeans don't want this new normal fabricated in a laboratory of ideas, in the same way that the wuhan coronavirus was fabricated in a laboratory. we do not want a new normal where, in the heat of the disease, the powerful impose their conditions and foment a regime of sanitary terror to subjugate nations. we must get our lives back as soon as possible, and that is why we initially agreed to this instrument, which would use and unify national tests and certificates to guarantee freedom for europeans. but the negotiations have not been transparent and we are faced with a certificate that clearly favors the vaccinated, forcing their freedom, leaving out in practice those who have passed the disease and have a natural immunization. what scientific criteria have been used to limit the recovery certificate to 180 days? why is it mandatory to take a pcr test but not guaranteed free? why isn't it available to those who test positive? is this instrument to be used to force the vaccination of all europeans? did we not agree that freedom of movement and the right to be vaccinated or not to be vaccinated would be guaranteed?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the defence of life and health is compatible with the recovery of the economy. mass vaccination and issuance of new covid certificates are the tools for this. after a terrible year for all of us, with the severe consequences that this pandemic has had on our health, including our mental health, on our economy and our way of life, we finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. the vaccines are working, but we are facing obstacles: lack of harmonisation, lack of information from the member states. and freedom of movement will not be possible as long as pcr tests, sometimes unacceptable to many, hinder freedom of movement for families, self-employed people, students. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the results of the tests are available to the public. we also need to, as vaccination progresses, accept self-tests for travel. that would bring immediate relief to our economy, especially to the tourism sector, which has been so battered by this pandemic. the europeans are watching us. we can't let them down. we protect our health, we boost our economy, and we defend freedom.
mr president, i hope the technology will let us proceed! we have the opportunity, commissioner, to close two huge holes in our global governance systems right now. the first one is that companies that don’t want to pay taxes right now can move to a tax haven and avoid paying those taxes. the second one is that companies that want to continue polluting without paying can actually move their manufacturing plants outside of the european union, continue polluting and export their goods into the eu without paying what the european companies have to pay for polluting. but the solution is around the corner. commissioner, you used the words ‘unprecedented opportunity’. what we have in front of us is an unprecedented opportunity, first with the g7 proposal to introduce a global minimum corporate tax rate. this makes it possible to solve the first of those problems. all companies will have to pay 15% – if this agreement proceeds – on their revenues, regardless of their profits, regardless of where they locate. the second is the cbam, the carbon border adjustment mechanism, that is going to force companies that move their plants outside of the european union to have to pay when they export their goods into europe. these are two very important steps. this is a huge opportunity for europe and, commissioner, i would encourage you to be bold, i would encourage you to be decisive. i am happy to hear that you really want to lead on this and you have all the support that you may need from us. thanks very much, and good luck with it.
in writing. in the context of the negotiations on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework (mff), a roadmap for the introduction of new union own resources was agreed. for the first time the system was reformed. the three institutions, parliament, the commission and the council, also recognised that the introduction of a basket of new own resources would support the adequate financing of union expenditure and the costs of the next generation eu recovery plan. in this regard, the interinstitutional agreement reached at the end of 2020 established the own resources roadmap including which new own resources are introduced and their timetable: an own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste which entered into force on 1 january this year, a carbon border adjustment mechanism, a digital tax and a european emissions trading system which are expected to be presented by the commission this month and should be introduced by 1 january 2023. the purpose of the plenary debate at this part-session was to keep up the pressure on the commission to implement the agreed own resources roadmap.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam minister, vice-president dombrovskis, mrs von der leyen, when we approved the recovery fund almost a year ago, our aim was to create a fund to transform europe, not simply to fill a hole in the finances of governments. and some countries are seizing this opportunity for transformation: italy and greece are proposing deep-rooted reforms in their administration; france is proposing an ambitious plan for training young people. other countries, unfortunately, do not take advantage of this opportunity and we see serious shortcomings in these plans. i will tell you about these shortcomings, and i will illustrate them with the plan for spain. i see three serious problems. the first is the lack of reforms to which another member referred earlier. spain has a very high temporality - the highest in europe - a very high school drop-out rate - the highest in europe - and the highest youth unemployment rate. this is not going to be corrected, madam president, without deep labor and education reforms. second flaw: we should invest in people, not things. plans spend a lot of money on things and don't invest in our citizens. the spanish plan, for example, spends a lot of money on subsidizing the purchase of electric vehicles or rehabilitating housing, but only 320 million on education reinforcement. and third, digital green investment must be a transformative investment, not a subsidy of consumer durables. we must invest in our science, in our industry; we must invest in the future. if not, we'll be a continent where we drive teslas, but we'll still have the same problems. madam president, rule 26 of the rules of procedure obliges you to take account of the opinion of this parliament and we have asked you in the resolution we are debating today for transparency, for reforms and for investment in people. i hope, madam president, that the commission will do its job and that we will ensure that this opportunity is not a missed opportunity for europe.
madam president, i will not trade our freedom for a deal. these words were spoken by fawzia koofi, an afghan politician and activist, who is one of the four women at the doha negotiating table - four out of seventeen members. they show great courage. he had just survived an attack, and this shows how difficult it is to maintain hope for peace after so many years of conflict, seeing how, despite these negotiations, violence is increasing. the withdrawal of troops undoubtedly makes this moment critical. and in that sense, the european union has a role to play in ensuring that the withdrawal of troops does not return afghan women and girls to the conditions of the year 2000. much progress has been made, but progress is fragile: in cities women are in university, they are police, but in rural areas there has been no progress in their rights, and sometimes even backward. so let us stand our ground and not let women's rights be on the negotiating table.
madam president, mr. high representative, i will join you in starting by raising my pen in support of the raise your pen campaign for women's education in afghanistan. as the international coalition prepares to leave afghanistan, the taliban are organizing to take back power. this is the darkest hypothesis for these thousands of women who have seen their future, a freer world in the future, that may close at their expense. our support for the country and our commitment are necessary, as you said, but they are necessary on the condition that women are included in this process. we cannot talk about inclusion if 50% of the afghan population is excluded from this peace process inside afghanistan. we will be interviewing this future afghan in the subcommittee on human rights with afghan women and we will be sure, mr high representative, to report to you on the results of this work.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, once again, i agree with all of you, it is difficult to say a different thing. but let’s be realistic. it’s going to be hard and we will have to show political will. we want to continue engaging with afghanistan because once the western troops will be withdrawn, it is going to be a difficult situation for the afghan people. so we have to be engaging with them and to give support on the way that you have been asking in this debate today. let’s try to be able, let’s try to be committed with these people, because it’s true, 20 years of war, a lot of lives lost, a lot of money invested for nothing. we have to try to avoid that all the social progress that the afghan people have been getting will be lost. and once again i want to stress the importance and the interest of the situation of women. i see a lot of women in the parliament. i see a lot of women in government. i see a lot of women working, doing sport. i see three million girls in school. but there are still two million girls who don’t go to school. two million! can you imagine – half of the female children don’t go to school. let’s try to avoid that the other half who are now going to school will lose this. because in this case, afghanistan will go back to the medieval ages and it’s our responsibility to try to avoid it.
in writing. afghanistan is a borderline case, demonstrating the impasse of international aid. the country, which was the world's second largest recipient of official development assistance in 2018-2019, will have received €4 billion from the european union since 2002. if member states are included, this figure has risen to €16 billion since 2007. but no real progress has been made, either in the area of opium cultivation or the fate of women, as the few improvements risk being nullified by a possible return to power by the taliban. consider, for example, recent allegations of women's exclusion from certain humanitarian programmes in taliban-controlled areas. finally, two aspects of this question directly concern our fellow citizens: on the one hand, the fate of the european funds granted to afghanistan, and on the other, the migration situation. the first point will be to fully understand the management of the aid deployed for the needs of the covid-19 response. on the second, as the 2016 migration agreement has just been renewed, europeans are finally waiting for concrete results on the control and repatriation of migrants.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, from belarus and afghanistan to cuba, we are doing a tour of the world. let’s speak in spanish, because i am sure that most of the people who are interested in this issue speak spanish and, in any case, the ones who have been asking for this debate, most of them speak spanish. and from time to time it is good for me to speak spanish. nadie puede dudar de que los derechos humanos son un elemento central de nuestro acuerdo de diálogo político y de cooperación con cuba, y quiero aprovechar este momento para defender este acuerdo y su aplicación. son parte central de este acuerdo y continúan siendo una parte esencial de nuestra política con respecto a cuba, que podríamos describir como una política de compromiso crítico con este país. no hace falta decirles por qué. porque los europeos creemos que las libertades individuales y una sociedad civil dinámica, elementos en los que se basa nuestro sistema político, son fundamentales para el desarrollo social y económico de cualquier país. en ese sentido, hay casos concretos que sé que preocupan a algunos de los diputados que están en el origen de esta petición de debate y que también nos preocupan a nosotros, los responsables de las instituciones europeas, como el caso del artista y líder del movimiento san isidro luis manuel otero alcántara, caso que hemos tratado con las autoridades cubanas en repetidas ocasiones, tanto en bruselas como en la habana. conocemos este caso. nos hemos preocupado por él. sé que preocupa a sus señorías. y, por eso, celebro que el señor otero haya sido liberado el pasado 31 de mayo; nuestros servicios han estado en contacto con él desde su liberación. nos ha comunicado que continuará con su activismo político y ha expresado su agradecimiento por el apoyo que le ha prestado la unión europea. no tengan ninguna duda de que continuaremos haciendo un seguimiento de su situación personal y de las peticiones de libertad de expresión artística que ha formulado el movimiento san isidro. también, ciertamente, sé que les preocupa y nos preocupa al mismo nivel que a ustedes y por las mismas razones la situación de personas que protestaron pacíficamente en la calle obispo, la famosa y hermosa calle obispo de la habana vieja, para apoyarlo. cinco de ellas siguen todavía detenidas. lo mismo ocurre con otros miembros del movimiento san isidro. puedo citarlos: denis solís, o luis robles, detenido tras pedir la liberación del señor solís. hemos tratado estos y otros casos con cuba, con las autoridades cubanas. porque, como les digo, el diálogo sobre derechos humanos está en el centro de nuestra relación. es una de las razones de este acuerdo de diálogo político y de cooperación. y tratamos de desarrollar este acuerdo de una forma abierta y franca, tanto en cuestiones de derechos humanos como en otras muchas cuestiones de la relación que tenemos con cuba y con su gobierno. y seguiremos reforzando nuestro diálogo, porque esta agenda de compromiso crítico con cuba es precisamente lo que nos permite acompañar al país en la reforma política, económica y social siendo, como somos, conscientes de que la situación económica en cuba se ha agravado por la pandemia de covid—19 y también por otras importantes razones exógenas, como la vuelta, por parte de las autoridades de los estados unidos, a medidas restrictivas en el sentido económico y del intercambio material y de personas. en este contexto, el anuncio por parte de cuba de reformas económicas que incluyen la introducción de mecanismos más orientados al mercado y un mejor marco regulatorio para el sector privado es un paso importante. pero que la administración trump suprimiera la posibilidad, para muchos ciudadanos estadounidenses, de poder acudir como turistas a cuba fue un paso atrás para el mantenimiento de la actividad económica y, en consecuencia, también del bienestar de los ciudadanos cubanos. nosotros estamos dispuestos, por supuesto, a apoyar las reformas emprendidas, que todavía tienen que desarrollarse más. esto forma parte de nuestro compromiso con cuba en el marco del acuerdo al que antes me he referido. señoras y señores diputados, este acuerdo nos ha proporcionado un marco estable para un diálogo político regular que antes no existía y para una mayor cooperación en estos y en otros temas, y nos permite apoyar el proceso de modernización y reformas en cuba. tratamos cuestiones de derechos humanos, pero también trabajamos juntos para fomentar un desarrollo inclusivo y sostenible a través de una cooperación que es muy amplia. por ejemplo, en este momento estamos estudiando las posibilidades de aumentar la producción de vacunas contra la covid—19 sobre la base de algunos avances científicos realizados en la propia cuba. seguimos siendo el primer socio de cuba en cooperación, en comercio, en inversiones. seguimos apoyando las reformas, la inversión, como una forma de fortalecer las capacidades que son necesarias para una mayor integración de cuba en el comercio internacional. este acuerdo tiene solo tres años de vida y en esos tres años ha creado nuevos espacios para la participación de la sociedad civil. desde que se empezó a aplicar, el diálogo político ha ido regularmente precedido de encuentros con la sociedad civil, que reúnen a organizaciones europeas y cubanas. hasta ahora —es cierto—, estas reuniones formales han incluido solo a organizaciones cubanas registradas ante las autoridades, pero la unión europea está ahora recabando la opinión de todas las partes de la sociedad civil cubana en otros escenarios y a través de otros contactos. en conclusión, creo que puedo asegurarles que, como es costumbre en las relaciones diplomáticas de la unión europea, sea con cuba o con otros países, con otros muchos países con los que no compartimos el mismo sistema político, pero sí compartimos importantes objetivos de desarrollo humano, continuamos expresando nuestras preocupaciones y trabajando para que en cuba la ciudadanía pueda también disfrutar de los derechos que entendemos que forman parte del bienestar social de acuerdo con nuestro modelo político, que es el que creemos que debería ser aplicado en otros países. y para ello tenemos el acuerdo de diálogo político y de cooperación, que creo que es un instrumento para conseguirlo. no se me ocurre otro mejor y, por eso, aunque sé que algunas de sus señorías tienen serias reservas y reticencias sobre lo bien fundado de este acuerdo y de su aplicación, quisiera aprovechar esta ocasión para defenderlo.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr high representative, four years have passed since this house approved the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and cuba. almost four. agreement in which both parties reaffirmed their respect for fundamental rights as the absolute values on which cooperation is based. it is regrettable that in recent years there has been no progress on the part of the cuban regime to show any will to improve the conditions and rights of its citizens. on the contrary, repression has recently increased sharply, with over a thousand acts of repression against journalists and human rights activists and over 150 political prisoners currently being documented. the sakharov prize laureates continue to be persecuted and prevented from participating in international events, such as those organized by this chamber. artists from the san isidro movement and authors of patria y vida have been arbitrarily detained and attacked for exercising their freedom of expression. doctors on international missions are exploited for their work. the european union must stand up for the freedom of cuba and the cuban people. mr president, in view of the state policy of flagrant and constant violation of human rights by the cuban regime, do you not think it appropriate to review the political dialogue and cooperation agreement?
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the president-in-office of the council, mr delors, for his excellent report, and to thank the commission for its work in this area. conversations that include and should also include human rights issues and concerns such as individual freedoms or recent events such as the san isidro movement and related arrests. secondly, i want to reject outright any strategy of blockade and isolation of the island, which has proved to be totally counterproductive and which has caused suffering to the cuban people. because, if we are talking about progress, what progress has two decades of common position achieved on the island? not one. that's the reality. and thirdly, i want to acknowledge the work of the european external action service and the embassy in havana, which is never easy, because of the high degree of politicization of the debate on the island. we must continue to work, accompany reforms, and build with the cuban authorities and cuban civil society.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr high representative, the european union has supported the cuban people on their journey to freedom for a long time. almost four years ago, this house approved the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and cuba to bring about real improvements in the lives of the cuban people. but we had a lot of doubts. and now, what is the real situation in cuba? we cannot talk about improvements in cuba if there are more political prisoners today than there were four years ago. it cannot be denied that cuba is a dictatorship as our ambassador navarro said when the regime arrests and represses journalists, artists and human rights defenders. we cannot have a real human rights dialogue if the regime prevents european and cuban ngos from participating. mr. high representative, cuba is not fulfilling its obligations. he's mocking our agreement. in the meantime, the cuban people are suffering greatly and need our support. we have to defend our values and that means suspending the cuba agreement as a last resort.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, mr borrell, in relations with cuba, the european union is committed to the 2016 political dialogue and cooperation agreement, which has been provisionally applied since 2017. this is our framework for relations, which we must certainly develop, improve and deepen, but it is the framework which today allows us to maintain a high-level dialogue with the cuban authorities and allows us, among other things, to deal institutionally with the human rights situation on the island. it would be a mistake to deviate from this framework of relations, which was so difficult to establish and which is so young, since it is not even four years old. and it would be a mistake, especially now, at a time when certain changes are taking place in cuba, certain openness, certain modernization, which must be followed carefully. the new constitution adopted in 2019, for example, recognizes the role of the market in the economy and expands the range of human rights and protection guarantees in a way that to us, without a doubt, seems insufficient, because there is still a long way to go. and we are concerned about the human rights violations that have been mentioned, of course. but this is probably what marks these reforms: a change of trend, a positive change that we must encourage and we must accompany.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the terrible thing is not that we actually have more political prisoners in cuba at the moment, that we have a more brutal repression than four years ago, that they are now spreading terror with a proacity, with an obscene display of force as they have not done for a long time, and that they laugh at all the claims of human rights, both of dissidents inside and of exiles outside and of organizations really interested in human rights. the terrible thing is that we have a high representative in the european parliament who is defending cuba, defending the dictatorship, protecting the dictatorship as much of the parliamentary arc there defends it. it is terrible that the 27 european democracies are protecting a dictatorship which has relentlessly persecuted its people for 60 years, enslaved them, tortured them, executed them and murdered them. and we are paying them a lot of money illegally too, mr borrell, because they are giving money from civil society to organisations that are not civil society and it is their body that is generating this kind of serious irregularities, financing the dictatorship in parallel as well as it is doing. above all, the dictatorship, supported by you too, continues to expand across the continent, sowing violence, sowing pain and sowing all those riots that we are seeing in colombia, that we are seeing in chile and that we are seeing in other countries. how sad we have to see this, mr. borrell.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, mr borrell, in colombia, the army, the police and the paramilitaries have killed 75 people since the beginning of the national strike and the same people who bring us this point about cuba veto that the action of uribista narco-fascism is discussed here. i will make a concession, however: human rights are violated in cuba, but at the guantanamo base. that obviously doesn't matter to you. they do not care about the human rights violations of israel in palestine, saudi arabia in yemen or morocco in the sahara. be honest, you guys don't give a shit about human rights. cuba not only respects those of its own people, but is an example of international solidarity, as we could see a year ago, when at the height of the pandemic its medical brigades arrived in italy, and this despite a criminal blockade of more than 60 years. but you seek to blow up the spaces of agreement and cooperation. more wood. you are turning this parliament into a loudspeaker for your reactionary and pro-fascist policies, indecently supporting the coup d'état in latin america and plunging this institution into the deepest ignominy and discredit.
madam president, not a single significant change has taken place in cuba to date to improve respect for human rights, freedom, political pluralism, the dignity and well-being of its people. rights guaranteed in any democracy but denied by a regime that has been subjected to unlawful detention, repressive measures and forced labour. human rights are still being violated in cuba. moreover, none of the expectations following the agreement have been met. it's been no use. it is bad to live in a dictatorship which sends emissaries to europe to defend, whitewash and air the regime and insult those who denounce it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a double standard to which we are sadly accustomed. cuba cannot continue to be the victim of an unscrupulous tyranny, much less be an accomplice to its game.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of cuba has been subject to an economic blockade by the united states for more than 60 years, which has been rejected 23 times by the united nations, which reaffirmed, among other principles, the sovereign equality of states, non-intervention, non-interference in internal affairs and freedom of international trade and navigation. on 23 june, the united nations general assembly will vote on this matter again, and we must therefore raise our voices once again to demand that the united states end this unjust embargo on the republic of cuba, and more so at a time of global health crisis. we also want to urge the high representative of the union to continue and strengthen the historic relations between europe and cuba, to strengthen relations between companies and research centres on both sides and to maintain a policy of cooperation with cuba in all areas and with all its agents. and, in turn, we urge the government of cuba to strengthen the political dialogues implemented since 2017 with the european union: the dialogue on unilateral coercive measures, human rights, agenda 2030 and the remaining three, in addition to the control of conventional weapons.
author. madam president, madam secretary of state zacharias, commissioner schmit, i really thought that mr šefčovič was coming, but, well, you are also important to us. you're worth something to us, too. you have a number of responsibilities and i certainly greatly admire your work as employment commissioner and your commitment to the social pillar and its incorporation into the treaty, as well as the commitment of the portuguese presidency to the social summit. as regards the subject we are dealing with today - the right of inquiry of the european parliament - as we all know, the current framework is one which we might consider to be relatively outdated. it is an interinstitutional agreement of 1995, therefore, well before the treaty of lisbon, and it is certainly the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in article 226, which establishes a legal basis for the european parliament's committees of inquiry and gives parliament the initiative. the last paragraph states that the european parliament will determine the detailed rules for exercising the right of inquiry by means of regulations adopted on its own initiative, after approval by the council and the commission. after approval by the council and the commission. in 2014, the european parliament adopted a proposal for a regulation, known as the martin report, on the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry, which is a right that we consider very important in the context of a strengthened european democracy, as well as a right of legislative initiative also strengthened by the european parliament. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should have greater co-decision powers in taxation and debt issuance matters, possibly also in the light of the eu recovery plan. but this report set out what seems to be somewhat normal if we look at comparative law, how committees of inquiry work in most national parliaments: it set out the ability to make it compulsory for those called to appear to do so, the ability to make visits to the member states in the context of the investigation being conducted, the right also to access the relevant documentation, and also a framework of sanctions in the event that any of these obligations, namely that of natural persons to appear, were breached. unfortunately, since 2014 - many years have passed, seven years - we find that the council still refuses to open formal negotiations with the european parliament, because many of these elements, if not all of them, up to six or seven, are considered red lines by the council that must be lifted and removed from the report before opening a negotiation process. obviously, from our point of view, it does not seem to us that the principle of loyal and good faith cooperation with parliament is being followed in this case. it hurts to say it, but that's how we understand it. and in any case, i think we should also bear in mind that the european parliament cannot go backwards either, that is to say, maintain the framework of a general and indiscriminate 'suppression', 'amputation' and, moreover, outside the framework of negotiation of the report, which would lead to a situation where we would be the same as in 1995. i think it is important for the council to understand this. i think that too much time has passed and that we must find a way of bringing positions together, of at least opening a more substantive dialogue on the substance and seeing which of these objections can find some kind of articulation.
madam president, today, 8 june, world oceans day, we must remember the role of the oceans in the fight against climate change, as a buffer against global warming, and fisheries as a sustainable element that also helps to maintain the oceans. it is true that climate change has made fishermen victims of global warming, and it is also true that much of the pollution that our oceans suffer is produced on land, more than 80%. so we must pursue the sustainability of fisheries, as we do in europe, with that maximum sustainable yield and by applying tacs and quotas, the landing obligation, with the most regulated fisheries in the world, but taking into account that our fishermen also provide us with food. healthy food and also respectful of the planet if done in a sustainable way. fishing that is harmful to the planet and the oceans is illegal fishing; sustainable fishing respects our oceans.
in writing. in the run-up to the us president joe biden's trip to europe to attend the g7 summits, nato summits and the us-eu summits, the dse expressed its high expectations in this debate to advance the progressive agenda in favour of democracy, the rule of law and social justice. we need to build stronger ties and a more resilient alliance of democracies to revitalize the multilateral world order. we also need to join forces against the climate emergency and achieve robust sustainable growth and more inclusive societies. in addition, we have heard in recent days of the agreement on international taxation at the g7 summit, which will be followed up in the g20 and oecd negotiations and lead to further legislative proposals by the european commission. the establishment of a minimum corporate tax rate, together with the introduction of a control mechanism for taxation in the countries where profits are made, envisages a very different scenario from the current one 'marked by tax competition between states', which the esd fully supports.
in writing. in the run-up to the us president joe biden's trip to europe to attend the g7 summits, nato summits and the us-eu summits, the dse expressed its high expectations in this debate to advance the progressive agenda in favour of democracy, the rule of law and social justice. we need to build stronger ties and a more resilient alliance of democracies to revitalize the multilateral world order. we also need to join forces against the climate emergency and achieve robust sustainable growth and more inclusive societies. in addition, we have heard in recent days of the agreement on international taxation at the g7 summit, which will be followed up in the g20 and oecd negotiations and lead to further legislative proposals by the european commission. the establishment of a minimum corporate tax rate, together with the introduction of a control mechanism for taxation in the countries where profits are made, envisages a very different scenario from the current one 'marked by tax competition between states', which the esd fully supports.
in writing. ahead of the us president joe biden's trip to europe to attend the g7 summits, nato summits and the us-eu summits, the spanish socialist delegation expressed its great expectations in this debate to advance the progressive agenda in favour of democracy, the rule of law and social justice. we need to build stronger ties and a more resilient alliance of democracies to revitalize the multilateral world order. we also need to join forces against the climate emergency and achieve robust sustainable growth and more inclusive societies. in addition, we have heard in recent days of the agreement on international taxation at the g7 summit, which will be followed up in the g20 and oecd negotiations and lead to further legislative proposals by the european commission. the establishment of a minimum rate for companies, together with the introduction of a control mechanism for taxing in the countries where profits are made, foreshadows a very different scenario from the current one, marked by tax competition between states, which the spanish socialist delegation fully supports.
madam president, commissioner hahn, secretary of state zacarias, the european budget must be implemented in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, but this requires respect for the principles on which the union is founded, in particular the rule of law. the situation in some member states, where the rule of law is deteriorating very seriously, is alarming. if there are no guarantees that the authorities of a member state are acting in accordance with the law, that fraud and corruption are prosecuted and punished by an independent judiciary, or that free and pluralistic media can inform the public, they cannot receive european funds. commissioner, this parliament does not insist on the application of the conditionality mechanism on a whim. it is an unquestionable necessity and every day that passes makes it more urgent to act. we cannot put europe's recovery at risk because of mismanagement of funds. we have said it many times: the conditionality regulation is in force and directly applicable from 1 january. the commission has sought to adopt guidelines for its implementation in contravention of the co-legislators. but six months later, we're still waiting for them. we can understand caution and, of course, we all want things to be done right. but it has been a long time since we heard from the commission, which we consider to be inaction. i hope that you will respond to this call for attention and that we will see these guidelines very soon, but above all that which really matters: that serious violations of the rule of law affecting the union's budget are investigated and brought to an end. that's our goal. there's no time to lose. every attack on the rule of law is an attack on the freedoms and rights of european citizens.
mr president, the rights of women, the lgbtq community and migrants, among many others, are being violated in europe. freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the right to assemble are under attack right here in europe. and the exercise of these rights has even cost european citizens imprisonment. and the problem, ladies and gentlemen, goes beyond the two member states which are the usual suspects. the road to autocracy is shorter than we may think. and this path could be shortened even further if we do not act quickly and decisively. we are facing a crisis of the rule of law in europe and we must respond. i want to stress the importance of achieving a broad consensus around this joint resolution. it is important that we demand that the commission take action against those states which violate the rule of law and democratic values. we have created a tool for this purpose, a regulation which makes the arrival of european funds conditional on respect for the rule of law. it's time to get it going.
madam president, commissioner schmit, secretary of state, after a decade of austerity policies, the european union has a great opportunity ahead of it. the covid-19 crisis has challenged the strength of our welfare and social protection systems yes, but at the same time it has reaffirmed the importance of the state and public action, has underlined the importance of having quality public services and has highlighted the effects of insufficient funding. the social summit in porto therefore represents a turning point, a great opportunity, the starting point for a more social, more inclusive and more sustainable recovery, putting people before gdp and using the european semester to implement reforms to build a strong social network. because economic growth is worthless if it does not improve people's daily lives, if it does not create more and better jobs that guarantee good working conditions for all. and that "everyone" as i always say, includes younger people, who are called upon to play a key role in the green and digital transitions, in the economic recovery and in the very defense of democracy. i would like to end by thanking commissioner schmit for his commitment to young people and making his words in porto my own: do not doubt that we will look after you and work hard to build a social europe that will allow you to grow and prosper.
in writing. the debate focused on the recent porto summit and its importance for the implementation of the principles of the social pillar. the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition. after years of austerity, the pandemic has revealed a latent reality: only by pushing for strong social policies can we help to tackle this crisis. we therefore need a strong and robust social network, through initiatives (many of them legislative in nature) that will promote the reduction of poverty, the creation of quality employment, the reduction of inequalities and the gender gap. europe cannot afford to repeat past mistakes, and our group will continue to work to ensure strong welfare systems in the eu.
in writing. the debate focused on the recent porto summit and its importance for the implementation of the principles of the social pillar. the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition. after years of austerity, the pandemic has revealed a latent reality: only by pushing for strong social policies can we help to tackle this crisis. we therefore need a strong and robust social network, through initiatives (many of them legislative in nature) that will promote the reduction of poverty, the creation of quality employment, the reduction of inequalities and the gender gap. europe cannot afford to repeat past mistakes, and our group will continue to work to ensure strong welfare systems in the eu.
in writing. the debate focused on the recent porto summit and its importance for the implementation of the principles of the social pillar. the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition. after years of austerity, the pandemic has revealed a latent reality: only by pushing for strong social policies can we help to tackle this crisis. we therefore need a strong and robust social network, through initiatives (many of them legislative in nature) that will promote the reduction of poverty, the creation of quality employment, the reduction of inequalities and the gender gap. europe cannot afford to repeat past mistakes, and our group will continue to work to ensure strong welfare systems in the eu.
in writing. the debate focused on the recent porto summit and its importance for the implementation of the principles of the social pillar. the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition. after years of austerity, the pandemic has revealed a latent reality: only by pushing for strong social policies can we help to tackle this crisis. we therefore need a strong and robust social network, through initiatives (many of them legislative in nature) that will promote the reduction of poverty, the creation of quality employment, the reduction of inequalities and the gender gap. europe cannot afford to repeat past mistakes, and our group will continue to work to ensure strong welfare systems in the eu.
in writing. the debate focused on the recent porto summit and its importance for the implementation of the principles of the social pillar. the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition. after years of austerity, the pandemic has revealed a latent reality: only by pushing for strong social policies can we help to tackle this crisis. we therefore need a strong and robust social network, through initiatives (many of them legislative in nature) that will promote the reduction of poverty, the creation of quality employment, the reduction of inequalities and the gender gap. europe cannot afford to repeat past mistakes, and our group will continue to work to ensure strong welfare systems in the eu.
madam president, one of the repercussions of this pandemic is the absolutely crucial role of telecommunications networks. if we've been able to keep going, if we've been able to maintain a minimum of life, it's because of these networks that sustain connectivity. they are crucial now and will continue to be in the future with the development of 5g and the internet of things. so any hint of doubt is going to make it easier for cyberattacks to intrude into our lives, as we are seeing every day in telecommunications networks, in industrial networks, in energy distribution networks, even in the self-driving car, in our transportation. the union must therefore continue to move forward to protect itself against cyberattacks, and it must do so with its own capabilities - hence the european centre for industrial, technological competence and research in cybersecurity, which we approved during the last plenary session - and by extending the maximum level of requirements in vital areas, as proposed in the sri directive 2. it must also do so to shield our own democratic system from outside interference. we must not allow them.
in writing. – last year, as the world was brought to a halt by the covid-19 pandemic, we witnessed a global shift to remote and hybrid work, forcing organisations to re-invent the way they operate, and to go digital practically overnight, with little to no preparation whatsoever. this was an excellent opportunity for cyber-criminals to take advantage, and there is almost not a single day that goes by without hearing about a cyber-attack. in the recent months, the cases such as solar winds, colonial pipeline, axa in france, the irish health executive agency and the department of health, are clear proof that we are very vulnerable in the digital territory. organised cyber-crime groups and foreign states attack our digital infrastructure, our businesses and institutions on an unprecedented scale. normalising cyber incidents i believe is not the right path ahead of us. we must have a clear and robust answer: a strong european cyber security and defence, investments in technological know-how for countering such attacks and high-level of cyber resilience through skilled professionals. the nis2 and the cer have to be a priority, a constant instrument in our toolbox for a free, open and protected digital future of europe.
the next item is the debate on the report by paulo rangel, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on a draft regulation of the european parliament laying down the regulations and general conditions governing the performance of the ombudsman’s duties (statute of the european ombudsman) and repealing decision 94/262/ecsc, ec, euratom (2021/2053(inl)) (a9—0174/2021).
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam secretary of state, madam commissioner, madam ombudsman, there is no doubt that europeans, european citizens, expect their rights to be defended uncompromisingly, even when dealing with the european institutions. there is a lot of talk about national public administration and the rights and guarantees of those who are administered. but today, ever closer to the european citizens, there is a european public administration which is also capable not only of exercising their rights, freedoms and guarantees but also of encroaching on their sphere of fundamental rights. and that is why, from a very early date, the european union wanted to create this figure, which has historical roots in the scandinavian countries but has spread to almost all european countries, which is the figure of the ombudsman, the figure of the ombudsman. and the truth is that we have not been able, during these years leading up to 2021, to bring the statute of the ombudsman into line with the lisbon treaty. and this was a very important blockage, because this parliament fights every day for the rights of european citizens, but it also fights every day to be a parliament with full powers, including the right of legislative initiative. and if there is a matter in which the treaties give parliament legislative initiative, it is the matter of the ombudsman, as is that of the committees of inquiry, as is, to a certain extent, but differently, that of electoral laws. and on a crucial matter where we had legislative initiative and where we wanted to comply with the treaty of lisbon, we were in a stalemate and in a blockage. and i think that we have succeeded here, first in a frank dialogue with the finnish and croatian presidencies, but then in a very, very fruitful, very open dialogue, which is an example of interinstitutional work with the german and portuguese presidencies, in finding a solution, in which the parliament's broad legislative initiative is recognised, but the council's consent is a real step in the legislative procedure and therefore the council's position cannot be disregarded, even in those cases where the initiative is solely that of parliament. we have organized informal consultations, first with the german presidency and then with the portuguese presidency, and i would like to thank the portuguese government in particular for their contribution, but also the secretary of state here and my fellow shadow rapporteurs, because we were all able to make concessions and, in this case, also the member states, because i know that many of them had to give up positions that were important to them in order to set an example that european citizens come first and the institutions second. because the ombudsman - and here i am entering the substance of the matter - the european ombudsman does not just control the commission or the agencies, which seem to us to be executive bodies, he controls the council and he controls parliament. and so we are all saying that we want to be scrutinized, that we know that in some of our procedures, here or there, we are hurting and trampling on the rights of european citizens and we want an independent institution with the capacity to act, as i would say 'freedom of action', and that is why parliament was adamant that we could not define the concept of maladministration and maladministration, because the imagination of the corridors of power is always faster than the laws we can make, we gave the ombudsman the capacity to act in defence of the citizens. i am sure that this proposal is an ambitious proposal, that it opens up a new era and that, in particular, beyond all that it brings to the european citizens and to this unique figure of the european ombudsman, it has also started a procedure for collaboration between the institutions in cases where the legislative initiative is given to parliament. and here we can find an important precedent for matters of such decisive importance to the european citizens as, for example, parliamentary committees of inquiry or, for example, electoral laws, which have been permanently blocked because there has not been this spirit of collaboration and the opening of an institutional precedent that could create a kind of special procedure for matters in which the competence of parliament, in terms of legislative initiative, is exclusive. i believe we are taking a small step in history which can mean a great deal for the rights of citizens and for the powers of parliament as the only directly elected body in the european union.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for giving me the floor in this important debate. this is your debate and you will be voting on your report, but the portuguese presidency is glad to contribute to this exchange. the statute of the european ombudsman is a dossier that was identified as a priority for the portuguese presidency in the area of interinstitutional affairs. the european ombudsman plays an important part in our eu institutional framework, notably to ensure the trust of our citizens by promoting good administration by our institutions. we aimed at providing the eu ombudsman with a new statute that reflects the evolution of the institutional architecture of the european union since it was first created in 1994, and bringing it into line with the treaty of lisbon. as the rapporteur has just said, a lot has changed in the institutional framework of the union since the creation of the european ombudsman by the maastricht treaty and the adoption of its statute in 1994, and a lot of experience has also been accumulated during the mandates of the three holders of the office. the time is now ripe to provide the eu ombudsman with a new statute in accordance with the lisbon treaty, and it was indeed a great pleasure to do so during the portuguese presidency, following the work of previous presidencies. i would also like to commend and sincerely thank mr rangel and the shadow rapporteurs for their engagement and spirit of compromise, which made it possible to bring the positions of the council and of the parliament together, with the valuable contribution of the european commission. the file is under an unusual procedure in which the council gives its consent and the commission its opinion to the proposal by parliament prior to the final adoption by parliament. such a procedure requires good interinstitutional cooperation and indeed we found such a cooperation, which led to this result. therefore, should this house confirm the proposal under discussion, the council will be in a position to offer its consent swiftly – as soon as next week – in time for your final vote at the plenary session that will take place at the end of this month. i believe the member states will unanimously consider that this text allows the european ombudsman to exercise her duties under a strong and clear mandate. many of the provisions have indeed been clarified: access to information, eligibility criteria, own—initiative reports, to name but a few, allowing the european ombudsman to act in a renewed, reinvigorated manner. thank you again for the cooperation of parliament. we look forward to the new updated statute of the ombudsman coming into force shortly, for the benefit of the citizens of europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am able to confirm that the commission is ready to deliver its positive opinion on the proposal reviewing the statute of the european ombudsperson put for a vote today. i thank the rapporteur, mr paulo rangel, the coordinators of the committee on constitutional affairs and all its members that have been involved in this valuable work. the new statute, subject to a compromise reached by all three institutions, would ensure coherence with the legal framework of the european union as established by the lisbon treaty. it would consolidate existing good practices in several areas, such as compliance with the eu data protection rules, and explicitly mention strategic enquiries or the possibility for the ombudsperson to submit proposed solutions or suggestions for improvement. it would also put more emphasis on important issues such as harassment, whistle-blowing and conflicts of interest. finally, it would also clarify provisions on access to documents. constructive cooperation with the european ombudsperson is key for the commission, particularly as approximately two thirds of the inquiries launched by the european ombudsperson concern the european commission. based upon this new statute, the commission will continue developing this constructive relationship in the interests of european citizens, businesses and associations. i thank ms o’reilly again for this excellent cooperation and her personal commitment and dedication. honourable members, i look forward to hearing your views, and i thank you all for your attention.
ombudsman. – madam president, honourable members, i’d like first of all to thank the rapporteur, mr rangel, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their quite extraordinary efforts to reach agreement across political groups and with the council on this very important file for the office of the european ombudsman. a lot of credit is also due to the portuguese presidency for facilitating the agreement and to the commission for their support during the revision process. this is one area where the parliament has the right of legislative initiative, and so from a constitutional perspective, it is a victory for parliament to achieve such an important agreement. the revision is a well-balanced document. it retains and even strengthens the office’s powers of inquiry and codifies many current working practices. there are important improvements to protect the future integrity of the office, such as the cooling-off period for politicians as candidates for the office and the need for an appropriate budget. the parliament and the ombudsman have always enjoyed a very close and a very constructive relationship. this new statute strengthens that bond between our institutions. it shows the parliament’s continued determination to make the eu more citizen-friendly and to continue to hold the eu administration accountable to the highest standards. since i was elected by this house in 2013, together with our dedicated staff, i have restructured and reformed the office, making it more efficient and more effective to the benefit of european citizens and residents. thank you again for your support for our work, for a small office with a big mandate. i look forward to the vote and to the final adoption later this month in brussels. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european parliament has always had a particular connection to the european ombudsman. the reform of its statute is for us very important, given the ombudsman’s role as the independent guardian of accountability and transparency, ensuring that the eu institutions adhere to the principle of good administration, and respect eu citizens’ rights. beyond the role of mediator set out in the statute, the ombudsman’s task also includes the wider role of providing best practices. this role has facilitated broad adherence by the eu institutions to the ombudsman’s solutions and recommendations. we are here today with the aim to further strengthen and improve the ombudsman’s role and effectiveness. the european parliament has proposed changes to the statute of the european ombudsman in order to modernise it, bring it under the legal framework of the lisbon treaty, and into the 21st century. the portuguese presidency has made ombudsman’s statute one of its priorities. there were long negotiations, a lot of goodwill and pragmatism from all sides to reach a text that reflects the position of both the parliament and the council. the satisfaction with the outcome is shared by a large majority of this house: no amendments were tabled in the committee on constitutional affairs or in plenary. with the new statute, the ombudsman is definitely better equipped to act. a stronger ombudsman will benefit citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome our european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, who is always more than a pleasure to have with us, and to thank her sincerely for the daily work she does in the interests of the citizens of europe. it was a real honour and a significant commitment to work with rapporteur paulo rangel and his fellow shadow rapporteurs on the new statute of the european ombudsman in the committee on constitutional affairs. i believe that today's result shows the ability of this parliament to produce quality legislation, the best publicity to strengthen the european parliament's right of legislative initiative which we will be working on in this legislature. the status of the mediator is strengthened by the negotiations. we have increased the margin of initiative, while preserving independence from the other institutions; we have introduced a so-called cooling-off period of two years to avoid conflicts of interest. we have expanded our investigative and whistleblowing capabilities. we have clear rules about access to classified information. we shall be voting in full support of the text of the new regulation today to support greater protection of the rights of european citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the november eurobarometer survey showed that an overwhelming majority of europeans - 92 per cent is an overwhelming majority - believe that their voice should be given greater weight in decisions about the future of europe. and i'm not wrong about the debate. they want to be taken into account. they want respect. they want their voice to be heard also for complaints, so that they are taken care of when something does not work well. and the european institutions are obliged to respond effectively to the voice of the european people who are demanding answers from us. today we are discussing the proposal for reform of the statute of the european ombudsman, which has been so well led by mr rangel and which will extend powers so that we can be more effective in that response to the voices of europeans. the rapporteur has made a clear statement. i will highlight only two aspects: ensuring the ombudsman's neutrality and independence and having sufficient tools and powers to meet those demands. it has been achieved: two years must elapse before a member of a national government or a european institution can be nominated as an ombudsman and powers of initiative are granted to enable him to conduct inquiries of his own motion. thank you, mr. rangel, for your tenacity and your strength. another important aspect of the proposal is that it reflects the cooperation which should exist between the european ombudsman and the authorities of the member states. according to the last annual report, 1 300 complaints by european citizens were declared inadmissible, and from now on we will have to take into account that this cannot happen. that citizens should not feel helpless, that they should know where to take their complaints, that cooperation between institutions can prevent such situations and, above all, that we should avoid, as far as possible, the frustration of citizens and the deterioration of the image of our institutions and impunity. it is very necessary for the future of europe. congratulations to all of you.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, europe's borders are in danger, from the canary islands to greece; millions of europeans are unemployed; our industry is being destroyed; rights won by our elders, such as the right to life or freedom of opinion, are at risk... but this afternoon we are dealing with the updating of the statute of the european ombudsman to, of course, expand the scope of powers, to allow inquiries to be carried out ex officio, without complaint from a citizen, and, of course, to establish gender parity. more competence and more spending. last year this institution cost the europeans 12.5 million euros. all for 728 claims, of which only half turned into actual investigations. calculate: 34 000 euros for research, an example of efficient political spending. what added value does this institution provide? why are they so intent on creating institutions, empowering them and generating more spending? at a time when europeans are being told that they have to pay for tests, that they have to pay for masks, and taxes are being raised to cover an economic crisis, we are about to expand the powers of the institutions. i think the message is very clear that this house does not care about the future of europe. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in europe, 60% of women parliamentarians are the target of sexist attacks on the internet or through social networks and of psychological, sexual and physical violence, and victims of misogynistic insults and incitement to hatred, death threats, harassment, rape, beatings, photo montages and even pornographic videos. women under 40 suffer most often from all this, and if you fight against gender inequality and violence against women, violence doubles. it seems that some want to convince us that politics is a man's business and send us home - especially if we are feminists - and, in some cases, they have succeeded: more cautious female politicians, with less public projection, who end up closing their accounts on the networks or fleeing the media. and yet, despite all that violence, despite our lack of public presence, despite the invisibility, the banalization, the infantilization and the systematic discrediting, despite the titanic effort we have to make to reach places that man believes to occupy by natural right, despite all that, here we are and here we are going to stay. we will fight for a feminine and feminist politics, because we are tired of testosterone, of leaders and warlords obsessed with power, command and control, and even of masculinized iron ladies, it is no longer known whether out of obligation or devotion. in time, we will feminize politics and end the phallocentrism that fuels misogyny.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am very pleased to be presenting this report here in the european parliament. thirty years ago, i decided to study engineering, plus mechanics, and of course, we were a minority. i started working in the automotive industry, and we were also very few women, because at that time, in the technology industry, women were underrepresented. but i always said it was only a matter of time, and as women made more progress in equality, these numbers would change dramatically. but it hasn't. and i worry that now that science and technology are transforming our society in ways we can't imagine, women are still underrepresented in these fields. today, only 36 percent of those who graduate in science, engineering, mathematics or technology, the so-called stem, are women. but if you go to areas like digital or artificial intelligence, the figures go down to 12 percent, and these percentages vary from country to country, but the trend is the same, and what's worse, it moves very little, it barely moves. that's the problem. and in these days when many young people are deciding their future after taking the university entrance exams, i think it is important that we make visible the social impact of stem careers, also, in these crucial moments for europe, at a time when europe is defining its future, how it will get out of the crisis, the recovery plans - a recovery that we all know will be based on science and technology. that's why i think this report is more important now than ever. and that is why today we are asking the commission and the countries of the european union to put the focus on this challenge to turn the numbers around. because it's not just a matter of justice and fighting for equality. we also discussed the social and economic consequences of this imbalance. for example, it is estimated that jobs in the digital and scientific fields will grow by up to 20% in the coming years. if we do not get women into these jobs, which are also better paid, and increase our digital skills, the wage gap and the pension gap will only grow. but also, if women are absent from the technologies that are going to shape the future of our society and our world, then design biases will be perpetuated and algorithmic biases will increase. so we need to act, and to do that we need to tackle the problems at the root, from early childhood education. and i like to say that it is not about imposing anything on anyone, but about being able to choose freely and eliminate the barriers, prejudices and stereotypes that still exist. because boys and girls show the same predisposition and the same skills in stem at very early ages. it's later when the girls drop out. that's why we need to promote more female role models to inspire us, because you don't choose what you don't know. we need more women in the textbooks. girls need to see that their work is going to have a social impact, that it's going to be recognized, that it's going to be supported. and as the report says, the role of the media and the role of teachers are going to be key to breaking down stereotypes. but, moreover, it is not only necessary for women to arrive, but also for them not to leave and to be able to move up in their careers; and without conciliation and more inclusive conditions, many will be left behind. it's undeniable that women have children in the most prolific years of our careers. that's why the first thing we do is advance maternity and paternity leave. and if we don't include men, we'll never achieve real equality. the second is that today the wage gap is still a reality and that the european union cannot afford to block the directive on pay transparency, especially if we see how opaque the big tech companies are. and thirdly, if we want to create more inclusive work environments, where there are more women in top management and where there are more safety, we need to keep working. finally, i would also like to highlight the low representation of women in start-ups and the difficulties faced by women entrepreneurs in accessing finance. we therefore ask the commission to encourage joint teams, support specific mentoring programmes and increase the number of women on boards. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in the drafting and negotiation of this report. i am sure it will open the door to educational and employment policies that will improve the situation of women in the stem sectors. if we've learned anything from the covid-19 crisis, it's the importance of science and research to overcome global problems. without science, we will not find the answers, and without women, the future will once again be designed by men and for men. we'll all turn the numbers around together.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs susana solís. we have a lot of data and evidence on the presence of women in stem. for example, only 3% of women in higher education choose to study information and communication technology. or, in the professional field, for example, we know that there are three times more men than women in these fields and that they are also underrepresented in innovation and entrepreneurship. and yet, the digital revolution is here to stay and it's accelerated, in addition, with the pandemic. and it's likely to continue to accelerate in this new normal. that is why the best jobs will be created in this field and our future, that of all people, including women, will be shaped. and that's why we have to be in these camps. and we need to promote gender equality in education, in university careers, in the professions and in funding innovation and entrepreneurship in these fields. we need to remove the biases and discrimination in these environments that end up being very hostile to women. in this report there are initiatives to combat them and we in the european parliament will demand that they be implemented and we will assess their implementation. we need the talents of women and that is why we support the renewal of educational programmes that overcome gender stereotypes and shake up a deeply sexist socialization. the same one, by the way, that takes the kids away from the foster care environment. we need to advance digital literacy so that, also from other studies - also from humanities and social sciences - one can participate in this digital society. we're changing roles for a new and fairer social model. and we socialists are very clear about the social priorities and also the just and equal society we want. and the role that technology must play and that women must also play in this future of europe that we are building among all people, including women.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, in 119 years of nobel prizes in physics, chemistry or medicine, only 22 women have been awarded. according to a 2019 unesco report, only 28 percent of all researchers worldwide are women. the reality is that women are still undervalued in all sectors of science and technology. this report is a good opportunity to focus on the structural barriers that hinder the development of potential talent. gender stereotypes and hostile work and educational environments, where high levels of sexual harassment are reported, prevent girls and women from entering a field that remains predominantly male. in addition, there is intersectoral discrimination against women in socioeconomically disadvantaged situations, women with disabilities, women living in rural areas, migrants, lgbtqi women, and women who are racialized. we therefore urge the commission, the member states and educational institutions to take concrete preventive measures. because this absence of women and girls not only conditions the development of these individual potentials, but also the whole of society. the way we tackle, for example, climate change, improve health care or tackle digital transformation must also have a woman's voice. without women in science, there is no sustainable or inclusive future.
madam president, i would like to thank mr norbert lins for the great work he has done in favour of a reasonable resolution. "giving simple solutions to complex problems" is the definition of populism. unfortunately, this is a phenomenon we see more and more often in this parliament, and especially when we talk about environmental and animal welfare issues. the present initiative to end cages on farms is another example of such animal-populism. i understand that many citizens in good faith are calling for the end of animal cages, but i think that more information is needed on this reality. did you know that without cages, farm animal mortality increases in many species? did you know that without cages and with animals moving freely on farms, disease transmission is much higher? did you know that without cages there are numerous cases of cannibalism between animals that end up being eaten by other animals that are stronger? so before we try to impose anything on our farmers, we need information and a comprehensive impact assessment. we need a reasonable transition period to enable farmers to adapt to new requirements and we need, above all, additional funding to enable this adaptation to take place. we cannot forget that farmers are the ones who care most about the welfare of their animals and are their main advocates. that is why the group of the european people's party will always stand by him and we hope that the rest of this parliament will do the same.
madam president, madam commissioner, we started this week with a strategy on unbalanced and harmful biodiversity for sectors such as agriculture or fisheries, and it is quite possible that it will end with the adoption of a resolution taking over the discourse of animal welfare ngos by asking the commission to legislate on a potential ban on the cage-farming of animals. i deeply regret that we are going in that direction, taking on the rhetoric of those who put animal welfare before the welfare of farmers. the rhetoric of those who demand more and more welfare rules from european producers but who look the other way without any shame and without any shame when morocco uses the cages we discard in europe to increase exports and make unfair competition to our producers. and by the way, and this is very ironic: if anyone thinks that animal welfare is a concern for morocco, please let me know. we have a major problem of consistency and hypocrisy, but above all there is a deer fear of dissent from a green consensus that has decided that eliminating cages will increase animal welfare. science tells us the exact opposite. but that doesn't seem to matter anymore.
madam president, every year in the eu more than 300 million animals are caged for part or all of their lives as if they were furniture and not beings who feel pain. we could say, without being wrong, that we eat suffering, but, beyond that, we eat exploitation of labour, we devour ecosystems and we feed on a model that is responsible for a large part of co2 emissions. and that, paradoxically, this affects our health, because the loss of biodiversity and the use of hormones, pesticides and medicines makes us more vulnerable to the viruses that are generated by this same atrocious production system. we therefore hope that the commission will not put this effort at participatory democracy on hold by keeping the initiative in a drawer. i remind you: 1.4 million signatures and support from 160 social organizations in 18 member states. and to take this opportunity to change things, to end cage-breeding and to legislate so that our food model is based on animal welfare, not allowing for labor exploitation and, of course, respecting our ecosystems.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate, which shows the importance which we all put on supporting coverage of eu affairs via radio, and of course via other channels of communication, so that as many citizens as possible can compare multiple independent viewpoints. the debate raised important topics, including the independence of the media, media freedom and media pluralism. it is of course very important to balance all these issues carefully, and we must take into account the interests of all players in europe’s media landscape. as regards the support to coverage around eu affairs via radio, the commission agrees with you that the current beneficiary should get clarity as soon as possible so that it can make decisions for 2022 on this basis. i want to reassure you that the commission pays due attention to sustainability, and that we want to provide clarity to all those involved as soon as possible. this is why our services are ready to launch the call and provide clarity to applicants in september. while the commission understands the concerns raised by honourable members, our focus should be on compliance with the financial regulation, on transparency and on equal treatment, in order to give all interested media a fair chance to apply. the commission is doing all it can to increase support to the media sectors to make them more competitive, while preserving diversity and independence. we look forward to working together with the european parliament on all these important issues in the context of the multimedia actions, but also in the context of the media action plan and the european democracy action plan.
author. madam president, this joint resolution is a good resolution for the european union and it is a good resolution for spain too. ceuta and melilla have been an integral part of spain for centuries and are therefore part of the european union. the problems of ceuta and melilla are therefore european and their borders are the borders of the whole union. the european union was concerned about the migration and diplomatic crisis last may and was therefore obliged to intervene immediately. the rejection of the use of migration, especially of minors, as a means of political pressure against a member state must be clear and firm. i absolutely refuse. the hospitalisation of polisario front leader brahim gali should perhaps have been handled by the spanish authorities, taking into account all the circumstances of the case, including those alleged by the moroccan authorities. but that does not justify morocco's response outside the established diplomatic channels, allowing a migration crisis of the dimension that was experienced at that time in ceuta. the population of ceuta faced - and it should be noted - a critical situation to which they were able to react with exemplary civility, as did the security forces and the armed forces deployed in the autonomous city, which, with the collaboration of the red cross, managed to manage the crisis with the greatest professionalism and speed, making us spaniards once again feel enormously proud of them. let us not forget that governments may change, migration flows may change, but what will never change is our geography. morocco and europe will continue to share a land border and we are therefore obliged to understand each other and to overcome the differences that arise through dialogue and diplomacy. and good neighbourly relations must preside over the coexistence between moroccans and europeans. as minister of the interior, i experienced firsthand the close cooperation between spain and the european community and morocco. i therefore believe that it is essential that diplomatic relations be restored immediately and that good relations be the rule.
author. madam president, in any relationship between neighbours and partners, such as the european union and morocco, it is normal that friction, problems, differences of opinion and misunderstandings can arise. it is not surprising that we have different legitimate positions in brussels and rabat on different issues. the worrying thing is that, in the context of a disagreement, the channels of diplomatic dialogue are abandoned in favour of improper forms of pressure from friendly states, and in this case - and the resolution is based on this - thousands of people, many of them children, are put at risk. however, this resolution, which has the consensus of the main groups, contains constructive terms because it is in the union's interest to overcome this anomalous situation. there's an idea i want to highlight. it is useless to try to limit this to a bilateral situation between morocco and spain. that's not understanding the logic of the union. and the best example is what happened in march 2020 on the border of greece and turkey, because what was said from the european union at that time is valid for this similar situation and any future one. this is a european issue because it is a european border and because the young people who crossed it did not want to stay and live in ceuta, they wanted to go to paris and berlin and amsterdam. there has been no escalation on the part of the union, including spain. the union and all its members have maintained a firm but patient and restrained stance. the spanish government and the authorities of ceuta have handled the matter with extreme efficiency, given its scale, which represents in a single day to have a population increase of 10%. imagine 50 million people entering the european union in one day. and, in addition, by giving due protection to minors, whose return we all know requires many guarantees. i would like to end with a slight reference to a matter which is of even minor importance to us. the union, including spain, has not moved one millimeter from its traditional position on western sahara. this is a position which has been well known for decades and is in line with the united nations. a permanent european position which has not hindered a magnificent relationship with morocco, which is the relationship to which all in the european union, including spain, want to return as soon as possible.
author. madam president, on 17 and 18 march nearly 10 000 people, including some 1 500 unaccompanied children and minors, entered the spanish city of ceuta illegally, despite the passivity and complicity of the moroccan border police. but what struck the european citizens as a whole were the images of children and minors being rescued by members of the police, the army, spanish ngos, preventing them from drowning while trying to swim into the city risking their lives. this entry of immigrants was allowed and actively promoted by morocco, as confirmed by the images of moroccan police opening the border fence and the official recognition of its foreign affairs minister himself, who claimed that this crisis was the result, that is, the response to the supposed second hostile intentions of spain with respect to western sahara. 'there are acts that have consequences', said the moroccan ambassador to spain. as much as morocco insists, this is not a bilateral issue. this is an issue which affects all europeans, because we are talking about respect for human rights and, in particular, respect for the rights of children. children are not thrown into the sea to do politics. morocco is a strategic partner country of the european union. it is the largest recipient of european aid and funds. but the importance of our relations cannot be an alibi or an excuse to look the other way when human rights are violated in broad daylight. europe cannot and must not accept blackmail from morocco or any other country which uses border controls and the drama of irregular immigration. no one wants to de-escalate tensions more than those who are suffering from them, but de-escalation must not mean ignoring the violation of children's rights in the rehearsal of a kind of children's "green march". the best way to de-escalate is to discourage unacceptable behaviour and to demand respect for these fundamental rights. this resolution sends a clear, firm but constructive message: reject morocco's use of border controls and migration, especially of unaccompanied minors, as a means of political pressure on a member state of the european union and the whole european union with it. because children's lives are not to be played with. children's lives and rights are protected. and i am convinced that this parliament will do so.
author. madam president, the european union must stop hiding the real causes that have allowed morocco to throw children against the borders of spain. for years, european governments have welcomed illegal immigration on the pretext that they are coming to pay our pensions and we need cheap labour. they have deceived those who came, offering them a paradise, and they have abandoned the europeans, who are now suffering the consequences in the streets. morocco, like turkey, has been able to blackmail europe by crossing its borders because of the weakness of the member states in the fight against illegal immigration. that is why we cannot sign a resolution which conceals this reality and which accepts the narrative which has been sold by the governments of morocco and spain. a resolution calling on the commission to provide more money to separate children from their families, where they belong, and applauding a government which has been unable to defend children's rights and is complicit in this violation of rights, distributing them throughout the country and encouraging the effect called for. a government that has illegally banned the citizens of ceuta from demonstrating in defense of their right to live in safety. it is time to proclaim that the european nations want to guarantee the right of children not to emigrate, to grow up with their families and to contribute to the growth of their nations. just as our duty is to defend our borders, guarantee our freedom and our future. we demand that the european union impose sanctions on morocco, starting with tighter controls on every truck that arrives in spain with illegal products that are competing illegally. and, where appropriate, making the receipt of funds conditional on the fulfilment of its obligations in controlling illegal immigration, the persecution of mafias and, of course, the fight against jihadism. spain's borders have been attacked and if we are not directly tough on morocco, it will do so again with more immigrants and more children. the defence of europe's frontiers does not depend on resolutions, but on decisive and forceful action.
author. madam president, we have not had a debate on the human rights situation in morocco for 25 years, not because there are not many reasons for this, but because for the majority of this parliament the only thing that matters is that morocco is a good border guard. and little does it matter about rights in the occupied sahara, the rights of imprisoned journalists and activists or immigrants. and that is why they are silent about the violations by morocco or the thousands of illegal returns by the spanish government, which has bought the migration discourse of the extreme right. it is not the first time that morocco has used the lives of migrants to blackmail the european union and spain. but anything goes to cover up their human rights violations or justify their illegal occupation of the sahara. the humanitarian crisis in ceuta will not therefore be resolved by resuming cooperation with morocco on migration. only by changing the european union's migration policy can we tackle this humanitarian crisis: by changing that migration policy, by ensuring safe and legal passage, so that we no longer subcontract to unscrupulous regimes, like morocco, to do our dirty work for us. until this changes, we will continue to be accomplices in their crimes and at the mercy of their blackmail. we need to change our immigration policy. we must respect human rights and denounce the violations in morocco.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, this debate today has two main goals. firstly, to express our european solidarity with the people in spain, and especially the people of ceuta, with all migrants, also with all involved in the recent migration crisis. secondly, to decrease the tensions and to avoid such kinds of migration crises happening in the future. the border of ceuta is our common european border and we all have a joint responsibility to protect it. what we know for certain is that, on 7 may, around 9 000 people – mostly moroccan citizens, among which there were 1 200 minors – were able to cross illegally the european external border around ceuta. this happened in the context of the decision of the spanish authorities to secretly let the leader of the polisario front into spain for humanitarian reasons, in a hospital under a fake name. we cannot hide that bad management by the left—wing spanish government around this humanitarian visit also contributed to the worsening of the situation, but this cannot be a reason to start a migration crisis. it is in our common interest that we learn from this and not let it happen again in the future. morocco is historically, and especially in the last decades, a strong eu partner in many important fields like migration – in the last years, morocco prevented around half a million people coming into the european union – human trafficking, security, exchange of relevant information with member states, counter—terrorism, trade, economy, energy, etc. i believe that our parliament today must give a clear sign to ease the tensions and to return to a constructive and reliable eu—morocco partnership. this is to ensure the swift and safe return of all minors in ceuta to their families, while safeguarding their interests and rights. i would like to make a protest, because the tabling desk rejected our split vote on the title under rule 158(2), which we don’t understand. i expect from the president – please, madam president – an explanation as to why it was not admissible. this is not according to the rules, and the interpretation which was done is based on a voluntary evaluation by somebody in the tabling desk. this is an official protest by the epp. thank you very much. because the title does not correspond with the reality, on the un charter.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the cooperation between the eu and morocco should be based on trust and mutual respect. the use of migration as a tool for foreign policy purposes will strongly be rejected by this parliament. the images of desperate children trying to reach the shores of ceuta, and of desperate mothers trying to take them back home, is a deplorable episode that this parliament cannot tolerate. the international convention on the rights of the child imposes obligations that cannot be ignored. border management should be organised in full compliance with international legislation on human rights. i would like to welcome the efforts of the spanish administration to urgently relocate more than 200 unaccompanied minors. the underlying conflict of what happened in ceuta is the future of western sahara, after the decisions taken during the last days of the trump administration. today, the parliament will reaffirm the eu’s long-standing position about the need to find a solution under international law, and in full compliance with the resolutions of the united nations.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent migration crisis in ceuta and melilla and the over-reaction of morocco in the hospitalisation in la rioja of the president of the sahrawi arab democratic republic, brahim gali, have shown that the alawite regime is an anocracy which manages its international relations by means of threats and blackmail and which, moreover, takes advantage of the weakness of the union's external action and its disastrous migration policy. how can we describe a regime which uses its children as cannon fodder, which encourages the canary islands or ceuta to jump, which criminalizes its most vulnerable citizens, or which ignores the repatriation of its minors? do you think that under these conditions morocco can continue to be a preferred partner for the european union? the union's attitude cannot be to look the other way. it is time to activate the human rights clauses of the eu-morocco trade agreement. it is time to demand respect for the civil and political rights of the rif citizenry. and it is time for the european union and its member states to recognize the sahrawi arab democratic republic. only then can we put an end to the constant threat and blackmail of morocco against the union.
madam president, more than 1 500 children breached the african enclave of ceuta during our last session in may. spanish law and un rules prohibit the expulsion of minors before studying each case individually. but ngos and the press have documented that many of these children were illegally ushered back to morocco by the spanish authorities. they also report that the spanish police used violence, beating migrants, pushing them into the sea, and firing teargas into the buffer zone between spain and morocco. the agreement between spain and morocco to regulate immigration is very similar to the agreement of the eu with turkey. morocco takes care of spain’s dirty work just like turkey does for the eu. leaving the eu’s borders in the care of autocratic regimes, like morocco and turkey, gives them the power to use migrants as a tool of their political agendas, which is used without any regard of human rights. migration policies based on gambling with human rights are inefficient, discriminatory, and humiliating for the eu. they are plain wrong, and they must end right now.
madam president, the images of ceuta that we all saw on television spoke for themselves. many children, and also adults, are crossing a european border in the face of the unacceptable passivity of the moroccan guards. the first reaction was puzzlement. the moroccan attitude does not correspond to the level of our bilateral relations. the european union and spain maintain close political, economic and commercial cooperation with morocco, in the fields of migration, security, the fight against terrorism, culture and so on. the spanish government, with its mistakes, must not squander the heritage of mutual understanding, and even of complicity, built up with morocco over many years. but morocco, with its irresponsible and unacceptable response, has endangered these deep ties and also the relationship with the european union. the spanish and moroccan governments must return to the path of frank dialogue and cooperation as soon as possible, and must abandon paralysis. the european union must actively contribute to this. it is time for diplomacy, not silence or megaphone.
madam president, commissioner dalli, ladies and gentlemen, today this parliament must send a clear message that respect for the borders of a member state is the respect for all europeans. the president of the council, the president of the commission and commissioner schinas sent this strong message to the moroccan authorities. another message that this parliament should send is that a humanitarian tragedy may have occurred in ceuta and that children, separated from their families, were used in an unacceptable way, and that everything is wrong. i think that this parliament should send another message: it is certainly time, and it must always be time, for a good neighbourhood policy. the union has respected and respects the kingdom of morocco and that respect must be mutual, as has been demonstrated for decades. it is time to look forward, to work to give a dignified solution to all those unaccompanied minors who have been trapped outside their homes, so that they can return to their families. it is time for the union to adopt a common migration and asylum policy, and it is time to regulate legal migration.
madam president, there is no conflict of sovereignty that justifies playing with families, with minors, with their aspirations for a better life, and putting their physical integrity at risk. population and immigration cannot be the bargaining chips in diplomatic conflicts. the moroccan authorities have recklessly turned a bilateral diplomatic conflict into a humanitarian conflict between the european union and morocco, and the response of the spanish authorities, with alleged illegal mass expulsions and allegations of police abuses, once again highlights the serious shortcomings of european immigration management. we must reduce tension, yes, but we must remember that entrenched conflicts such as that in western sahara always end up generating instability and tensions, and therefore it is urgent to work towards finding a solution in the terms of the united nations and applying the right of self-determination. the european union should be more proactive in resolving this conflict.
madam president, morocco is blackmailing us again, this time in the dirtiest way: using the hunger and misery of its own people in this infamous attempt to force the european union to recognize the sovereignty of rabat over western sahara. the moroccan tyrant is doing this because he knows it is working and because he knows that we usually respond to his blackmail by giving him huge sums of money or by reaching agreements whereby he is allowed to illegally dispose of the natural resources of western sahara. we also facilitate this extortion by giving you control of the southern border of spain, which is a border of the european union. we must say enough is enough, end the illegal trade agreements which are exploiting the resources of western sahara and oblige the 27 member states to accept in a spirit of solidarity the migrants and refugees who arrive at our external borders. we send resources from the european union to the host populations. let us not allow the people of ceuta, melilla, the canary islands or algeciras to bear the burden of the lack of solidarity within the european union.
madam president, nobody knows better than spain the importance of morocco as a trading partner, as a political partner and as a strategic ally. no one has such a close relationship with morocco as spain, to the point of sharing a border in two spanish cities like ceuta and melilla. and therefore, no one wants the best relationship with the kingdom of morocco as spain does. it is therefore simply unacceptable that a diplomatic crisis should become a deliberate strategy to destabilise a spanish city. and it is unacceptable that morocco's complaint or its demands are expressed through a massive violation of a spanish border, which is also the external border of the european union. morocco has made a serious mistake and this resolution describes it well. we ask that at least for the time being, it not be aggravated. because we don't want to be stuck in the crisis, we want to get out of it. and this resolution is committed to a full and fruitful relationship with morocco, which develops its full potential. but a relationship which will not prosper if it is tainted by pressure strategies which have no place in the framework of cooperation and mutual interest in which we all have to move. morocco too.
mr president, commissioner, we in the disability intergroup of this parliament are clear on this. we need to unblock the equal treatment and non-discrimination directive, also to go beyond employment and also for people with autism spectrum disorders. the integration of people with autism into employment is a challenge for society, but especially for europeans. just as we are about to stand before the united nations ten years after ratifying the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, we must arrive at 2022 with our duties fulfilled. the intergroup is calling for a focal point in parliament to inform and raise awareness. this group is in the back of the line for job inclusion, with almost 90% of people unemployed. access to employment is not just about improving their quality of life, but about making the right to equal opportunities a reality. we must therefore be able, with european funds, to break down the barriers faced by people with asd, such as the absence or inadequacy of employment regulations, the lack of job opportunities, the prejudices existing in the business community and the absence of specific support programmes. we need to move from intentions to deeds. we need concrete measures to facilitate access to employment with support for the worker, but also for enterprises and social organizations. we have already defined in particular the reasonable adjustments, the personalised itineraries and the positive discrimination measures with social clauses. if we want to achieve agenda 2030, let's leave no one behind and let's not leave people with autism behind. i would like to congratulate the entire network of associations that deals with these people.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, few policies have as much impact on the lives of citizens as cohesion policy and erdf funds. and in this regulation we are adopting today, europe is putting the spotlight on regions and cities as the protagonists of economic recovery. i think we have done a very good job - thank you, commissioner, thank you, mr president - and we now have a good regulation. and today i wanted to ask you for three things. the first is that erdf funds are invested well, in transformative projects that create jobs, in innovation, in green projects, that we invest in people. secondly, not a single euro should be left unspent, because the reality is that many countries have problems spending these funds. and now that, as in the case of spain, all the funds from the recovery plan have been received, we cannot leave the erdf funds in the dust. we must now start working on the operational plans and, above all, on removing administrative obstacles and ensuring that smes can access the funds. there's no way they can't get in because of the red tape. and third, that they reach the entire territory. i think we have been clear in these rules. from now on, the focus should also be on depopulated areas and implement integrated plans to ensure that these areas have internet access, quality social services and employment opportunities. in short, these erdf funds must ensure that no citizen or territory is left behind in this recovery.
the commission has already done so. the eu's pillar of solidarity is cohesion policy. this has already been demonstrated in the crises of the last few decades. the eu's efforts to bring living standards closer to those of its citizens are neither a bonus nor a gift, but a guarantee of the eu treaty. solidarity and redistribution are the subject of much talk, but when it comes to money, there is a lot of debate. and now we're facing the next major structural change: the phase-out of coal and digitization. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the new regulations do not contain everything that my group would have wished. but at least with these rules, a social-ecological, inclusive transformation of our economy and way of life is more feasible than ever before. so in future, when the new rules are applied, we will make it a priority to ensure that the regions and local authorities are strongly involved from the outset.
we are here today to talk about what many call the old policy of the european union, which is the traditional policy of regional development, which is really the policy that european citizens know: if you walk through a member state, citizens will easily be able to tell you about the erdf funds or the impact that this investment from european funds has had on their region or on their locality. a package of 330 billion euros has been approved, as has been said, which is the new allocation of these regional development funds, these cohesion funds, and now we have the challenge, at this time of serious social and economic crisis following the pandemic, to make good use of them. and i am particularly pleased that smes are the protagonists of these funds, because smes are really the ones who are going to be able to create that much needed employment, that employment which is going to make the less populated areas able to attract population, and they are the ones who are going to enable that progress which we need to reduce those inequalities between regions. so i welcome these funds, i hope they are well spent and i hope they bring about that much-needed progress and growth.
in writing. the new cohesion policy for 2021-2027 has an allocation of €372.5 billion, of which romania will be able to access up to €30 billion, the highest allocation since accession. at the same time, the european co-financing rate is 85% for the less developed regions, as is the case for most romanian regions. the rules for accessing funds have been simplified to eliminate unnecessary red tape, but the verification system will remain vigilant to ensure that money gets where it is needed. the financial allocation thus comes with a number of conditions regarding respect for the rule of law, the environment and the principles of inclusiveness and equality. it is essential that this money can be used for projects with added value for communities and that access to it is conditional on respect for the rule of law by member state governments. in addition to money from national recovery and resilience plans, the cohesion funds will help member states to overcome the crisis generated by the pandemic and invest in the development of infrastructure, public services, as well as in the green and digital transition.
in writing. cohesion policy is a central element for reducing disparities between member states and for the sustainable development of european countries. in this respect, the european union must speed up the implementation of cohesion policy and funds dedicated to regional development so that the benefits of european action are felt adequately and quickly in less developed areas. the crisis generated by the covid-19 pandemic has unfortunately accentuated many of these gaps leading to a vicious cycle of poverty in many european regions. in this context, the clear setting of new funding instruments and their correlation with the other european support mechanisms is a priority. unfortunately, there are eu member states, such as romania, which, due to lack of administrative capacity and governmental inconsistency, are unable to access the available funds and thus do not close the existing gaps quickly enough. the european parliament remains a strong supporter of cohesion policy and supports the need for regulations that reduce bureaucracy and the role of politics and strengthen the impact of cohesion funds at the societal level.
in writing. today we are talking about the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund for the next six years, which are very important for the member states and for our citizens. for both funds to be effective, they must be used in the context of national, regional and local programmes and they must serve to promote economic and social cohesion and solidarity between the different regions of the eu. this task has been made more difficult by the negative impact of the financial crises, which, despite the reduction in inequalities between member states, has unfortunately exacerbated territorial inequalities, especially in smaller countries such as lithuania. the union's overarching objective of cohesion should therefore not be undermined by eu or national budgetary commitments or by the negative consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. in addition to infrastructure investments, lithuania and the other so-called new member states need erdf assistance to support productive investments and investments to safeguard existing jobs and create new jobs, especially in less populated and rural regions. i was therefore concerned to learn that the erdf intends to support more projects in urban areas. that's not a very good idea. i therefore support the inclusion of an additional point to focus on disadvantaged regions and areas, especially rural areas. this decision will benefit lithuania.
in writing. support for cohesion projects across europe can help to ensure smoother and more effective cooperation between different regions and member states. for example, in health, economics and transport. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction and operation of the railway network, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction and operation of the railway network. one of the european union's identified priority projects rail baltica project will receive support through the cohesion fund. together with the support of the member states, the results of these projects will contribute to the objectives of both the cohesion fund and the erdf, so that together with the support of the member states, the results of these projects will contribute to the objectives of both the cohesion fund and the erdf to make european communities and regions more cohesive and resilient.
the next item is the debate on the report by domènec ruiz devesa, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the commission’s 2020 rule of law report (2021/2025(ini)) (a9—0199/2021).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner didier reynders, thank you for being here and for your cooperation in the preparation of our report. i also thank my colleagues on the negotiating team, lukas mandl, michal šimečka, tineke strik, kostas arvanitis and angel dzhambazki, and also the colleagues from the other committees who have delivered opinions or participated, as well as my colleague garcía muñoz, who is present here. i think we all agree that this has been a report which has been produced in a way which i think is very cooperative - perhaps the fact that there are no amendments in the plenary shows this - and we have largely agreed that europe is in a state of emergency with regard to the rule of law. to deal with this emergency, we need more and better tools. the new commission report, the first in the series on the rule of law in 2020, is therefore very welcome. and so we say in our own report. the commission's report aims to monitor and promote the culture of the rule of law through 27 chapters, covering all member states and analysing the judicial system, media freedom, anti-corruption mechanisms and democratic checks and balances. it is also positive that the commission has chosen to visit the member states to hear from governments and organised civil society. as in all previous years, we believe that there is room for improvement in the report and we modestly hope that our contribution will be useful in preparing this year's report, which we will be hearing shortly. firstly, perhaps some clearer, more concrete recommendations at the end of the report could help. we also believe that dialogue is a fundamental tool for the commission in its relations with the member states, but in our view it is not and will not be sufficient, particularly, as we know, with certain member states. secondly, the report rightly examines the states with the same indicators and methodology, as it could not be otherwise. at the same time, we believe that we cannot use the methodology to establish false equivalence, otherwise we risk trivializing the most serious breaches of the rule of law. we therefore believe that future reports should clearly distinguish between isolated failures and systematic, i would even say systematic, breaches of the rule of law and use these results to prioritise union action. thirdly, we believe that we must strengthen and give priority to the analysis of threats to the legal architecture of the union and its values, which we see as a growing and worrying trend. we see challenges to the primacy of union law - although i am, of course, pleased that the commission has opened the first phase of the infringement procedure against the judgment of the court of karlsruhe - and we also see decisions which prevent, which seek to prevent, national courts from initiating preliminary ruling proceedings before the court of justice, or the increasing and deliberate failure to comply with the judgments of the court of justice. on the other hand, we would like, although there is already treatment, more attention to the increasing attacks on freedom of expression, attacks on journalists, also attacks on members of organised civil society, and we believe that academic freedom and artistic freedom should also be covered under the umbrella of freedom of expression. the position of this parliament is well known, and we would like the report to go beyond the rule of law and to include democracy and fundamental rights. perhaps the latest act coming from hungary, this new attack on the lgbti community in hungary, shows that it is precisely not so easy to disconnect these three dimensions and that a comprehensive and systematic treatment would be particularly relevant. the rule of law is also being violated, and perhaps attention could also be drawn to this, when asylum procedures are not being followed, when asylum seekers are denied access to these procedures or access to the public administration, and so on. we know that the commission, in response to this proposal from parliament, is carrying out or intends to carry out an analysis of the charter of fundamental rights with annual reports, but intends to focus on one right or one aspect of the charter each year. we understand why this would be the approach, but of course we would lose the ability to see in a cross-sectional way what the status of all the rights in the charter are. in any case, we also believe that it is very important that this report should fit well into the overall architecture of the rule of law. that is to say, it is just one more piece of the machinery where we have the rule of law conditionality, where we also have article 7. in short, this report opens up a series of reports which can be very useful in this constant challenge to the rule of law in the union. i would like to say a few words in english to end, specifically to mr orbán. you're not fooling anyone. we will never stop calling you out on your blatant disregard for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, congratulations to mr domènec on this comprehensive, balanced and consensual report. the 2020 report is a first step towards strengthening the rule of law in europe, but from the committee on budgetary control we see room for improvement. for example, country-specific assessments and recommendations are needed and their enforcement monitored; the severity of violations must also be distinguished, and whether they are systematic or isolated; the existence and effectiveness of national anti-corruption frameworks must be assessed and progress made in harmonisation and cooperation in this area. we cannot stop at a mere information report, but it must directly contribute to the conditionality mechanism and make it active as soon as a violation is detected, not only to protect the european budget but also to defend the values on which the union is founded. respect for the rule of law is an indispensable condition for the protection and proper management of the union's budget, and european funds cannot be granted to those states which do not respect it. i ask the commission to act now and to put a stop to the violations of the rule of law which it has found in its report before it is too late for some member states, in the hands of autocratic governments, and above all for their citizens.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. madam president, mr commissioner, in response to the first report of the rule of law committee, the focus of my work as rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs was to highlight the essential role of this report in terms of effective methods for its implementation going forward. it places a strong emphasis on the role of independent judicial systems capable of exercising their functions in full autonomy, in accordance with the principles of the separation of powers. we therefore welcomed the attention the commission has paid to justice systems and their periodic review, but also noted the importance and need for clear recommendations on the challenges identified and follow-up to them. we will continue to insist and stress that there is a backsliding from basic and democratic principles. in addition, we called for a meaningful and clear comparison between national justice systems to highlight good practices and address related shortcomings. we also noted the need for digitization, training for judges and lawyers. last but not least, we called on the commission to broaden the scope of its next report to cover all the pillars of the rule of law. and here i am referring to equality before the law, monitoring to protect fundamental rights, the rights of minorities and the tools used to combat discrimination and hate speech, increasingly important tools which can be covered in the next report. indeed, this report has made a huge contribution and i thank commissioner reynders once again for all his efforts to take a horizontal view of democracy and the rule of law, because this is of vital importance for the whole union.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be back before you, this time to discuss your report on the first annual report on the rule of law, published by the commission on 30 september last. let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr ruiz devesa, for his commitment to the defence of the rule of law, for this comprehensive report and for the constructive contacts we have had in this regard. the commission shares the parliament's objectives as regards the promotion and protection of the rule of law in the union. the rule of law, as a fundamental value of the union, is essential for the functioning of the union and for the maintenance and development of an area of freedom, security and justice, as well as for ensuring mutual trust within the union. we cannot tolerate non-respect of the rule of law and the commission is committed to defending the rule of law, including through the use of the various tools at its disposal. as i said, a new tool has been added to this toolbox last year with the annual rule of law report. this report is conceived as an annual process during which we aim to prevent problems from emerging or deepening. it also allows member states to learn from each other through an exchange of best practices. the annual report does not replace, but further complements other instruments of our rule of law toolbox, such as infringement proceedings or article 7 proceedings, which will continue to be used to provide responses to challenges to the rule of law, where necessary. as you know, yesterday the general affairs council held article 7 hearings on the situation of the rule of law in poland and hungary respectively. we welcome the fact that these hearings took place and remain at the disposal of the council and parliament in the context of these proceedings. the commission does not hesitate to have recourse to infringement proceedings to protect european values. for example in october last year we launched infringements against malta and cyprus about the so-called golden passport. recently, a reasoned opinion was sent to cyprus and an additional letter of formal notice to malta as part of these proceedings. i would also like to refer to the letter i sent on 9 june to the polish minister for foreign affairs concerning the motion which the prime minister submitted to the polish constitutional tribunal. this motion challenges fundamental principles of eu law, in particular that eu law has primacy over national law and that all judgments of the european court of justice are binding on all national courts. the polish authorities have one month to respond. finally, i'm sure you will have noticed the strong statement of president von der leyen this morning regarding the new hungarian bill that discriminates against people based on their sexual orientation. today, together with my colleague thierry breton, i sent a letter to the hungarian minister of justice underlining the commission's legal concerns about this bill as regards fundamental rights and eu law. the hungarian authorities have until the end of this month to reply, and the commission will not hesitate to take action if their reaction is not satisfactory. let me now turn back to the report itself. the first report published in september last year provides a synthesis of significant rule of law developments in the european union, as well as country-specific assessments for all the 27 member states. it is based on a variety of sources, including written inputs from the member states, from civil society, and reports from international organisations with special attention to the council of europe bodies. we looked at four key areas: the independence, quality and efficiency of justice systems; the anti-corruption framework; media pluralism and media freedom; and other institutional checks and balances. through this first report, including its 27 country chapters, the commission aimed to set out key elements of the situation in the member states on which a new cycle and future reports will be able to build. the report presents an assessment of developments across the eu, both positive and negative, drawing attention to emerging or deepening challenges and highlighting good practices. i take note that parliament has particularly welcomed the fact that the report contains country-specific chapters. ultimately the report does not formally contain country-specific recommendations, which i am aware is one of the points raised in the draft report we are discussing today. it contains clear assessments establishing a robust basis for the commission to pursue its analysis in the coming editions. i also take note of parliament's calls on the commission to assess in successive reports how the challenges identified have evolved. let me therefore say a few words about the follow-up we have carried out on the first report. as i stressed when presenting the first report to your parliament last year, our aim was to kick-start an inclusive debate both at european and at national level, and i am pleased to say that such debates have indeed started. just after the publication the then german presidency launched a rule of law dialogue in the council based on our report. the general affairs council held a further discussion on general trends in october last year and then a country-specific discussion on the situation of the rule of law in the member states in november. a first series of five member states was discussed following the council alphabetical protocol order. the portuguese presidency continued this approach with a second country-specific discussion which took place in april this year where the situation inside all the member states was addressed. the commission also had the opportunity to pursue the debate before national parliaments, which play a key role in upholding the rule of law. since the publication of the report, i have had the opportunity to present the methodology and country-specific findings of the first report to 20 national parliaments, most of them virtually. i intend to relaunch the exchanges on the second report, hopefully with more physical exchanges of views. it is our intention to continue this approach of close dialogue. the commission has also conducted bilateral follow-up with member states on the findings of the 2020 report. this happened at both political and service level and i am happy to underline that several member states indeed took initiatives to follow up. as you are aware, the commission is currently preparing its second annual rule of law report set to be adopted in july. this year's report will follow up on the issues identified in the first report and also develop on the impact and challenges brought by the covid-19 pandemic, as well as other new developments, if any. to prepare this new edition of the report we conducted once again virtual country visits in all the member states during which we had over 400 meetings with national authorities, independent bodies and stakeholders. we have also collected written input from a wide range of stakeholders, including civil society. through a targeted stakeholder consultation we received over 200 written contributions referring to developments both in specific member states and at eu level. this exercise allowed us to obtain comprehensive information about the developments that occurred over the past year. this is crucial for deepening our country-specific knowledge. the commission remains committed to further deepen this country-specific expertise, and i take due note that it is also an explicit request of parliament. deepening our countryspecific assessment is indeed a crucial step for being able to support member states in better identifying and addressing challenges and seeing real impact on the ground. promoting and upholding the rule of law is a common responsibility. all eu institutions, member state legislative, executive and judicial authorities, as well as civil society, do have a role to play. looking ahead, it is essential that the european institutions continue to work together to uphold the rule of law. the rule of law report is an important tool in this respect. we need to continue to discuss the developments on the ground. this has the potential to improve the rule of law situation and confirmed by all experience with the first report. the commission looks forward to deepening its dialogue with the european parliament in this regard and i'm looking forward to discussing with your parliament, if it's possible, the 27 chapters of the forthcoming 2021 report. i made the proposal last year to engage not only in a general debate, but maybe a debate on all the country chapters. if it's possible for the next report, the report 2021, it will be a pleasure to come to discuss with you. in that respect we also follow with interest the work of the democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights monitoring group that was set up by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). the commission will carefully reflect on the recommendation of the parliament with a view to further improving its annual rule of law report. of course i welcome your valuable input and look forward to your remarks and suggestions maybe for the next report next july, maybe also for the next report in the next year, because it is now becoming a cycle with the real intention of installing a culture of the rule of law in the entire european union, not only with a debate with you, but also with a debate at the national level.
the committee on petitions has also adopted a number of amendments. madam president, in the committee on petitions, which is parliament's citizens' committee, we often encounter citizens' frustrations that countries like hungary and poland can grossly violate the eu's values without the eu doing anything serious to get them back on track. we have other weapons than the useless article 7. the commission's answer is too weak, so thank you for the libes report. but we must also reach out to the other member states. many governments have been far too passive in their national self-sufficiency. the citizens need to know that so they can shake up their own elected representatives. the commission's responsibility is of course still crucial - and it can if it wants to. we already have a well-established and well-used version of the eu's values, the copenhagen criteria, which can be used to correct violations in poland, hungary and other countries and to impose the appropriate sanctions.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work, which my group supports, and to take this opportunity to congratulate ourselves - as we did at the time - on the fact that the commission launched this rule of law assessment tool in all the member states last year. a general, uniform, non-discriminatory and, moreover, periodic evaluation of the content of the programme. we do not see this as a sanction mechanism but, as commissioner reynders has said, as a guide to correcting shortcomings and modifying the elements affecting the institutional architecture of our states. we understand that the methodology for drawing up the report can be improved, but we welcome this. the report we are adopting today contains proposals which i am sure the commissioner will take very seriously. in any case, it is necessary to emphasize the follow-up. that these reports are not isolated evaluations but that each year the report has to assess to what extent the identified deficiencies have been resolved. and this is an important part of what we expect from the second report, which is about to be adopted. because the challenges to the rule of law have not diminished. we must maintain our firm commitment to judicial independence and we continue to have reason to be concerned about information pluralism, access to information and transparency. and we are deeply concerned about the impact on the functioning of democratic institutions of the restrictive measures that have been adopted in response to the pandemic. we are concerned about the marginalisation of parliaments, the exceptional legislation, the abuse of decree-law and the lack of accountability procedures. here too, de-escalation and normalisation must take place.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the european union needs to lead the digital economy and for that we need data, a proper regulatory framework and invest in infrastructure and computing capacity. supercomputers are crucial to our competitiveness and leadership in key areas like health or climate change. we've seen that clearly during the pandemic. thanks to them, scientists have been able to do research in weeks that used to take months or even years, and thanks to them, we have the vaccine or technology to fight the virus. however, as of today, the european union does not have any supercomputer in the top ten in the world. and what is more, the existing ones depend on non-european technology. that is why the step taken by europe in 2018 to create the european high performance computing joint undertaking, whose rules we are adopting today, is so important. this project is one of the most ambitious in europe and the countries we have joined efforts and resources to have a network of eight supercomputers that will make us the world's first power. this is a giant step for our technological and digital sovereignty. and what we are approving here today is an improved regulation where we allow more synergies with other funds, where there is more transparency and we ensure that services and data are accessible to our small and medium-sized enterprises, to startups, to universities, to technology centres and to public administrations in all member states. in short, that all europeans should have access to them. because, when we know that europe's future is shaped by mastering new technologies such as artificial intelligence, data analysis or quantum computing, europe cannot afford to miss the train. let's use the talent and political will we have to play the technological leadership role that we deserve. this is a big step for europe.
mr president, the proposal on the european high performance computing joint undertaking will facilitate the development of the next generation of digital technologies, which will help us in the transition to a european digital economy. supercomputers, with their extremely high computing capacity, enable technologies such as artificial intelligence, data analysis and cybersecurity to harness the enormous potential of the big data economy and lead to innovations in important areas such as health or climate change. in order to fully benefit from supercomputers, we need to strengthen capacities and competences, with a particular focus on reducing inequalities and the gender gap, and ensure that these services are at the service of research institutions, administrations and european citizens. these infrastructures will thus help to advance europe's leadership in supercomputing and to build a more innovative, digital and green future.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating all those who have made this law possible: the portuguese presidency, vice-president frans timmermans and, of course, my colleague jytte guteland for the courage and tenacity with which he has made this law a success. because it is a success, and an example of success in the european union, the law that we are going to ratify today. this is a milestone which sets the tone for the rest of european policy and also a wake-up call to the international community. the union is delivering on its commitments and this is the way forward for the next cop26 in glasgow. let's be clear: there is no future option by doing the same thing we've been doing. the past, the old fossil fuel-based models are outdated, polluting and inefficient models. this climate neutrality we seek implies an industrial revolution. it involves a lot of changes in our lives, in our diet, in the way we move, in the way we relate to the planet. and it's not going to be easy, it's not going to be easy. less than nine years to go for the first target. it's going to be very difficult to do, but it can be done. i also call for the construction of new indicators. we cannot move on gdp or emissions reductions alone. things are going to happen that will make us reflect on the fact that we need new measures. climate ambition, moreover, is not at odds with economic progress. decarbonisation will have benefits for society as a whole. now there are new packages coming. we need to work on renewables, advance energy efficiency, develop taxonomy. that's why i don't understand the opposition of some groups who won't get on the bandwagon of this law that we're going to pass today. the reforms pending, in addition to seizing new opportunities, should help to close the gaps with the losers, because we can meet with losers. and the social side of this law must also be considered. the union is on track; we have a clear legislative framework. i call on everyone to act together against the climate emergency in a robust way to save our planet.
madam president, this european climate law is insufficient in form and content. good, because you can't move forward in ecological transition and give a forceful response to climate change if you allow twenty-seven different speeds. some states start the way by adopting laws against climate change, like spain, but other states can postpone it for another thirty years. in substance, because the 53% emission reduction for 2030 is a long way from the 70% needed indicated by the scientific community and the 60% already agreed by this parliament. nor is there an end date for fossil fuel financing. climate change is the greatest threat to our lives today, to the lives of future generations, to biodiversity and also to our production systems. i hope that this commission and the member states will devote half the effort they are now spending to cleaning up the face of the big polluting companies to an ambitious and fair environmental policy.
madam president, i think that today's debate is one of congratulations and celebration. it is a victory for science, for activists, for young people - young people! - but also for this parliament, over the deniers and reactionaries. it consolidates this parliament as the global institution of reference in the fight against climate change. so i congratulate all the players, especially jytte guteland, nicolás gonzález casares, the commission - mr vice-president - and also the portuguese presidency. it is true, it is being said: it is a historic day. because it's a great change that has been taking place in humanity since the end of the 18th century. goodbye to oil. bye the gas. bye to coal. welcome to clean energy and renewable energy. but we have a lot of work to do. and look, mr vice-president, several colleagues have already said this to you: there is the 'fit for 55%' package, the plan for the restoration of nature; i would like the commission to present binding and ambitious targets for carbon sinks in that restoration plan. i also wanted to talk about the effect, the impact and the example, because today we are setting a path internationally. i believe there is no other way to avoid catastrophic global warming, and this is an obligation that until now was moral and political, but it is also legal. and finally, fifth, today we finally passed the climate bill. but, mr timmermans, there has to be another law, the european law for the protection of biodiversity. it's the law we're hoping for soon. thank you and congratulations to the portuguese presidency!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are today examining a very important report. the european investment bank, as we know, is of particular importance in financing, especially now, after the pandemic crisis. i must however express my dissatisfaction and i am surprised that the president of the eib, in his speech, has indicated that he is satisfied with the amount of funding he has given to smes, or that the report makes it very clear that only 40% of the total funding has been allocated to smes, whereas in the european union we have 98% of smes. so, mr president, i support capital increase to have adequate capital at the eib, but please kindly orientate more towards smes, towards those with the least resistance to the crisis and we also need to see how we can increase the pace with the guarantee fund because the pace is very slow. we have more than a year of days in which smes, horeca, tourism are suffering and only the first funds were approved at the end of 2020. i would also like to stress that i believe that the eib needs to review its lending policy in the field of transport. we all know how important transportation is as a component in the cost of products, as important for tourism, as important in the green deal. so i hope that in 2021 we have adequate funding for this transport sector. i cannot help but say that what we have been hoping for with investment has not been achieved, namely the elimination of major imbalances. we still have regions and states where social cohesion has not been achieved, and i hope, commissioner, that you will explain to us how you think the response has been coordinated, when we know very well that each country, in this year of the pandemic, has acted differently in terms of access to the internal market.
mr president, mr dombrovskis, mr hoyer, the european investment bank which you are running is essential for the european economy, and it has proved this once again during the pandemic. and it's essential because it's credible and it's effective. and that credibility, mr. hoyer, must be protected like gold in a cloth. the commission has not yet received any information on the amount of the aid granted to iberdrola. the conflict of interest, ladies and gentlemen, is obvious: the vice-president was in charge of loans to spain and, in particular, loans to iberdrola, which is one of the bank's main clients. one billion four hundred million euros had been lent since 2019 to this company. at the press conferences announcing these loans, mrs navarro appears shoulder to shoulder with the president of iberdrola, for whom she is currently working. mr. hoyer, institutions have to be clean and look clean. that is why, in this parliament's assessment of its activities, we ask you to explain the permissiveness of your ethics committee to these revolving door scandals and also to review the rules that allow these scandals to occur. finally, we remind you that the european ombudsman called a similar decision by the european banking authority maladministration, and we therefore ask you, mr hoyer, to ensure that the european investment bank takes the necessary steps to avoid such situations in the future.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president hoyer, i too want to mention the case of vice-president emma navarro, who, as everyone knows, was vice-president of the eib for two years and then, after four months of leaving office, went directly to a company, iberdrola, which had received projects and financing worth up to eur 1.4 billion under her direct mandate. what's surprising is that the bank's ethics committee authorized that, gave that waiver. it is incomprehensible, something is not working right: either the ethics committee is not doing its job properly or the rules of procedure are not clear enough on the matter. and i think that something must therefore be reviewed, and i welcome the fact that the european ombudsman, following a complaint from the green group, has launched an inquiry to see what has gone wrong. and i very much fear that he will probably conclude in the same way as he did in the case of mr adam farkas, that such a waiver should never have been granted. finally, we ask for transparency: we want the resolution of the entire ethics committee. we have just received a reply from the eib inviting us to go to a reading room in luxembourg to read it. i think that an institution as important as the eib deserves to be much more transparent towards its citizens.
president, president hoyer, vice-president dombrovskis, the covid-19 pandemic has partially put our lives on hold, but has also sharpened the challenges we face. we need to invest more in our people, our businesses and our future. everyone agrees on this and the necessary resources have been made available. however, the quality of the implementation is just as important. we are counting on the european investment bank to do this, both for the actual investments and for the advice it gives in the design of projects. for this reason, we support the strengthening and continuous improvement of the eib's professional structure. we set the following three absolute conditions for a high-quality service: the capacity and expertise to build sustainable partnerships, the coordination between the different national and regional players, and a corporate culture driven by the search for innovative investments that support growth. the eib is crucial if we are to emerge stronger from the current covid-19 crisis.
mr president, the financial crisis more than a decade ago caused a tsunami of regulations – 15% more regulations in the banking sector every year. it wrecked the banking system. the recent crisis, the covid crisis, led to panic within the eu. governments feared bankruptcies and recession. in reaction to covid, the eu decided to introduce a huge stimulus programme, the next generation eu. billions of euros are flooding directly towards eu member states. the extra billions of euros create political tension in and between member states. the stakes are high. what would you do if suddenly you got your hands on a couple of billion euros? while politicians in member states fight, the eu is drowning in euros. the european investment bank will have to cope with this situation. my question is, will it lower its standards, which will lead to more risk, or give up its market share?
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr hoyer, yes, we want the money from the european investment bank to work efficiently, that's why it's called an investment bank. we have to invest in projects that go into the future and that are effective. it doesn't matter whether the project is green, blue or purple, but what is important is that the project really works as an effect in the european union that will trigger more and more projects. we should not create further barriers between member states by supporting one sector and not another. and i think we should focus all our efforts on efficiency. now, some of you may not like this, but not everything that may seem green at first glance may actually be effective and lead to the goals that we set.
mr president, the eib is the essential entity to sustain eu policy on investment and to facilitate financial support for major projects. its newly acquired role as the eu’s climate bank makes sense. its work in the eu’s partner countries is commendable. still, major concerns about the bank’s operational outcomes persist. geographical imbalances in the eib’s lending remain a vital structural handicap. how can it be acceptable that in 2019 just four member states between them received almost 50% of loans granted? new criteria assuring a broader geographical allocation of investments are needed. there should be a higher prioritisation for regions traditionally burdened with an investment deficit, in particular those having geographical disadvantages such as the eu’s peripheral and insular regions. any shortfall in the general investment requirements for covid—19 recovery and for the green deal will weigh most heavily on these regions. so funding strategies must be adapted to fit the geography, not least for projects related to transport and energy. another major issue is transparency, including the sharing with meps of information on the eib’s financing activities. one fails to understand the reasoning behind the eib’s sudden decision to terminate the dissemination of its european fund for strategic investments (efsi) monthly state-of-play reports back in june 2018. a permanent mechanism of info-sharing must be in place, and the funding of approved lending per sector and per country. i look forward to continued dialogue between the european parliament and the eib. together we can succeed and achieve a holistic and fair green transition of the european economy on a give-and-take basis.
mr president, may i welcome president hoyer back to the european parliament. without any doubt the european investment bank (eib) played a crucial role in helping us overcome the pandemic in europe and reduce the impacts of the pandemic on people, businesses and regions; in particular, the support given to help small and medium—sized enterprises cope with liquidity shortages was very welcome on the ground. i believe that the eib can play an even greater role in the medium and longer term now that all of the pieces of legislation are in place when it comes to strengthening our economy. when we negotiated the recovery and resilience facility we allowed member states to allocate up to 4% of their national envelopes into national compartments of investeu. unfortunately, not many member states have made use of this prerogative so far because they lack technical assistance. please provide national and local levels with the best technical assistance as needed. and my last point, transparency: we are going to spend more money than ever in the next few years at european level, and the more we spend, the more we need to make sure that money reaches the beneficiaries that it is intended for. please, also as a bank, help us in this endeavour and allocate enough resources for fraud prevention and detection. (applause)
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, president hoyer, honourable members, i would like to thank you for today’s productive debate. the committees’ reports testify that, overall, the eib is on a very good path, in particular as a front-runner on climate action and as a role model for other international financial institutions in their quest to become paris-aligned. i also thank parliament for its support in the discussions on the eib’s role as the eu’s major partner in implementing eu funding. i very much look forward to continuing these discussions and for our close cooperation.
president eib. – mr president, members of the european parliament, you have bombarded me with 40 points, which i have written down, which i should refer to now, and i’ve been given five minutes... so that is going to be difficult. but i promise each and every point that has been raised by you will be responded to directly or indirectly, and we will ask our colleagues in the brussels office to contact you if necessary and possible. first of all, let me thank the european parliament for the support that we have always enjoyed for the work of the eib. it is about the preservation of the role of and the standing of the bank to deliver its mandate. sometimes you might want to talk about a new legal basis for this bank, but then you need to change the treaty. to be honest, the bank is owned by the member states of the european union, and that’s it. one can change that, i have nothing against the idea, but then please go to the european council and the other formations and try to find treaty change on that. i’d like to start with a more general point, which is really on my mind and a heavy burden on it. we know exactly that we will overcome the big challenges and we will meet the big challenges only via innovative means. we need to be more innovative. the fact is that the member states of the european union and the union itself, for the last 16 years, have on average invested 1.6% of gdp less into research, development and innovation than our competitors in north america and asia. and nobody should believe that this goes without an impact on our competitiveness and our productivity growth. so we need to address that issue first. and this is why i insist, violently, that we need not, that we must not take innovation, climate and development apart, it all belongs together. and nobody should hide behind the virus when it comes to these necessary activities in the field of innovation, climate and development. i have heard with great joy that, for instance, mr silva pereira expressed the wish for an institutional agreement between the ep and the eib. i would appreciate a discussion on this and i also heard that some of you want to visit luxembourg – you are always welcome. we should organise this indeed. i do not see too many meps in luxembourg, but too few. so let’s change that. we can get into good dialogue there. you also referred to the european guarantee fund (egf). i think we have had your great support, and the call for the continuation of the egf – which is currently gaining a good implementation speed – is highly appreciated. some of your remarks were music to my ears, but it’s not up to me to change this. on transparency, mr eickhout referred to transparency and also to intermediated lending, you will know that we not only review our transparency policy but we also look at the review of our environmental and social standards. both processes are ongoing: we should keep the discussion going on on these issues. i take that extremely seriously. when it comes to the governance issues, we have updated the codes of conduct in 2019, and further adaptations are taking place right now – this covers the code of conduct of the board, the management committee and the audit committee. in this context, let me say that i take the sentences that i heard about a former colleague of the management committee very, very seriously. but it’s a very individual case, and it has been referred to the european ombudsman, which i respect, and i think it is in the very best hands there. we have delivered all information, we operate with full transparency there, but i need to protect a colleague who, in my view, is not being attacked in a fair way. we have played it by the rules and by the book, and she has, and therefore i insist that we don’t come to premature conclusions before the european ombudsman has taken a position. i trust that we have done the right thing there. there were a couple of allegations concerning the personnel situation in the bank and i must say that some of the allegations that i’ve read in newspapers i simply cannot understand. and some of these were vicious. the eib staff is highly motivated and proud to work for the bank. the eib staff show a high degree of loyalty, otherwise we would have a little bit more rotation and mobility, but once we are in luxembourg, they don’t go away anymore. the covid-19 pandemic, of course, put additional stress on every institution and we tried to help people who are suffering from it. but the most important thing is that we are seriously trying to improve the culture of the institution, and one issue that has helped us in getting closer to where we want to be is through considerable progress on gender equality. and one last word, in this context: we have zero tolerance for harassment at the eib. and that is something that needs to be said, particularly today when luxembourg celebrates pride week. so we are reviewing our environmental and social sustainability framework, and following the calls from the european parliament, as part of the review, the eib group will propose a new standard for intermediate finance to ensure the highest level of integrity and compliance of the financial intermediaries and their projects. i have heard a word on the european financial architecture for development (efad), which i loved. i think it comes through now more or less clearly that it is important to have one development finance institution that is run by the european union and its member states only. in the case of conflict, no russian, no chinese, no american, no egyptian can intervene and block things. and we need to live up to this responsibility. this is why, to be quite clear, i believe that we should not reduce but expand our development business, particularly in the context of climate, innovation and development, and therefore we should organise ourselves better – in what form we can discuss. i believe as a subsidiary of eib to which we might invite others like the european commission or the national promotional banks or development agencies, is the best solution. but we have seen that according to the council conclusions of june, we will now have in the third quarter of 2021 to deliver a report and a set of ideas to the eu institutions in this context. so things will pick up speed now quickly. i am sorry, mr president, i still have 25 pages here, but i promise you that i will really respond to each and every one in writing or in a personal approach. thank you very much, it was a pleasure to be here. (applause)
i think that the final sentence has opened the door for you to answer the other questions. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 6 july 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by birgit sippel, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a temporary derogation from certain provisions of directive 2002/58/ec of the european parliament and of the council as regards the use of technology by providers of number-independent interpersonal communications services for the processing of personal and other data for the purpose of combating the sexual abuse of children online (com ((2020) 0568 c9-0288/2020 2020/0259 ((cod)) (a9-0258/2020).
the rapporteur. the commission is not sexual abuse is a terrible crime, a massive violation of the fundamental and human rights of our children. this is true in the real world, but it's also true when images of abuse are being shared online over and over again. and in both worlds, we need to do better -- in prevention, in prosecuting perpetrators, but also in supporting survivors. online measures are complementary, for example to covert investigations or the fundamentally better equipping of law enforcement and counselling services. but we also need to address the debate about how much online surveillance is compatible with our basic democratic freedoms and where we run the risk of installing a comprehensive surveillance system that knows the most intimate details of every person's communications, including our children, whom we especially want to protect. already today, various providers voluntarily scan private messages to detect child abuse. this was threatened to be made impossible by a change in the electronic communications code. and so the commission put forward that law in september last year, which we are voting on tomorrow. an exception to the existing eprivacy rules that still allows for the scanning of private messages for child abuse without consent. the law allows for a variety of technologies. the so-called hashing has been used for many years. it allows for the identification of abuse by comparing videos and images with a predefined set of digital fingerprints, called hashes. and as rapporteur, i emphasized early on that i did not want to stop this practice, but i did push for additional safeguards. clearly more controversial was and is the use of artificial intelligence to read messages for the detection of unknown material and possible cyber-growing. the commission has long failed to address the impact of the scanning already under way on child abuse. there would have been plenty of time to find a good, sustainable solution to the legal challenges around scanning private communications on the internet. but when the commission finally realised its failure, it did not even bother to submit an impact assessment on the fundamental rights implications, although it should have done so. instead, massive pressure was put on the negotiators to reach some kind of agreement quickly. but as legislators, we always have a duty to examine all the facts and to act in accordance with fundamental rights and the rule of law. i have said this many times before and i will say it again today. we can of course disagree on political decisions and especially on such sensitive issues, but that never absolves us of the responsibility of a critical, comprehensive debate. the agreement reached between the council and parliament is a compromise between the detection of child sexual abuse on the internet and the protection of the privacy of users. it may not be perfect, but it is a viable transitional solution for the next three years. the compromise allows for the temporary continuation of certain voluntary measures to detect sexual abuse, images and possible cyber-growing. as a parliament we have fought hard to improve the proposal and bring it into line with existing data protection standards. we have added safeguards, such as better information for users or the introduction of a 12-month data retention period. we want more direct information to european authorities and have achieved that service providers must work closely with national data protection authorities. these can ban technologies that are hostile to fundamental rights. data protection and the protection of confidentiality are not a protection for the perpetrator, but the basis of democracy. we must protect the confidentiality of communications in the interests of our children as well. this is especially true for sensitive communications such as between victims of abuse and their doctors and lawyers. this law is a transitional solution for three years. the commission had promised to propose a new, permanent framework for the detection of child abuse before the summer break. now it's not until september or october. i expect a much better proposal. the long-term solution must be at least aligned with the data protection safeguards of the temporary solution. it must find solutions to more targeted scanning of private communications, or it will have little chance of standing up in national and european courts. and yes, we're expecting a full impact assessment this time. and that is why you, dear ylva johansson, and you too, commission president von der leyen - because i know of your interest in this bill - are back on the train.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear birgit sippel, let me start with the voices of the victims. ‘it’s going to destroy my life.’ ‘i want to die.’ ‘i’ve already tried to commit suicide, please don’t start again.’ these are the voices of teenage girls aged 14 to 17, tricked into sharing naked pictures and then blackmailed by a predator. he forced the girls to produce and send additional content, otherwise – he texted in the chat – he would publish the videos and pictures he had already received widely on the internet. the predator requested that the children record themselves engaging in sexual acts which might have been physically painful. ‘you’re going to be sore after’, he texted in the chat. the report we are discussing here today is very important because thanks to the agreement that parliament and the council reached in april, this kind of grooming can continue to be detected and stopped. companies can continue to act against so-called known child sexual abuse material – almost four million images and videos were reported in the european union last year – but also towards material that is not yet known about, so-called ‘newly produced’ material. last year, there were more than half a million new images and videos of children being raped. action can also be taken against grooming around – 1 500 reports last year. the negotiations were difficult, but with the agreement you reached, co—legislators have shown that it’s possible to find the right balance, a balance that responds to european citizens’ concerns. i very much welcome the agreement, which ends uncertainty for companies and say it loud and clear: yes, you can continue to report child sexual abuse online. reports are used by police to rescue children all over europe. only last friday, the ninth victim identification taskforce organised by europol’s european cybercrime centre identified six victims of child sexual abuse, children that can now be rescued from harm to safety. saving these children was possible thanks to europol’s repository of 59 million images and videos of child sexual abuse material. europol specialists selected footage of victims whose location and identity had not yet been established, and 41 victim identification specialists from across the world joined forces to identify as many victims of child sexual abuse as possible. i congratulate europol on their work and the excellent police cooperation with member states and international partners. worried about privacy rules, some internet companies stopped voluntarily reporting on child sexual abuse material last december. in a few short months, reports dropped by 53%. hundreds of cases go unnoticed every day, leaving children in the dark at the mercy of predators. it was vital to act quickly and with this interim regulation we have turned the light back on. companies that provide email, chat or messaging services can continue lawful practice to voluntarily detect, remove and report online child sexual abuse. we also agreed on important safeguards, safeguards that guarantee privacy and the protection of personal data. all practices are subject to the general data protection regulation (gdpr) and the charter of fundamental rights. data processed to detect child sexual abuse online is limited to what is necessary and is stored no longer than strictly necessary. processing must be subject to human oversight and, if necessary, also to human review. these safeguards answer important concerns of parliament. on top of these, companies will need to consult national data protection authorities if they use anti-grooming technologies or new technologies to detect material. this interim regulation ends uncertainty for companies. it does not end the danger to children. this is only a temporary solution to fix an acute emergency. we need a permanent answer to counter a persistent threat against children. still this year i will propose new permanent eu rules, rules that will include detecting and reporting obligations for companies and will provide a solid legal basis for the providers’ activities. because voluntary reporting is not enough. right now 95% of all reports come from one single service provider. it’s time for all providers to live up to their responsibilities, to make sure that no one can use their services to spread videos or pictures of children being raped or worse, facilitate the rape of children. i also want to fulfil a request by the european parliament to set up a european centre to prevent and counter child sexual abuse, a european centre to help companies and law enforcement to detect and report online child sexual abuse, to help police to rescue children, to provide oversight and transparency and accountability. the centre should also help prevent child sexual abuse and support victims who suffer for many years, even after the abuse is over. the vote tomorrow will be an important step to protect our children. i would like to thank birgit sippel and her shadows for working intensively with the portuguese presidency and for making this possible. today we can look each other in the eye and say we have done well, but from tomorrow we must be determined to do better. this agreement inspires me with the confidence that we can. i look forward to continue working with you to keep our children safe. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, it has not been easy to get here: long hours of work, a very complex legal and technical debate and a lot of pressure on the rapporteurs. but this report shows that parliament has lived up to its responsibilities. the numbers of sexual abuse of minors are terrible. the massive use of the internet during the lockdown has highlighted the vulnerability of minors to predators and sex traffickers. so my group insisted on expanding technologies to those that can detect not only known sexual abuse material, but also new production and grooming. we are aware that legislation of this nature needs additional safeguards and guarantees and have introduced them in the new regulation to minimise the risks to privacy that may arise from the processing of this data. we have reached agreement from different positions, and, to repeat the words of the rapporteur, mrs sippel, it is possible and necessary. i sincerely believe that this regulation does a good job of reconciling the need to protect privacy with the need to protect minors. because if we were to conclude that we have to choose between privacy and child protection, then we would have a serious problem. we would have a serious problem as legislators, as fathers and mothers, and as responsible citizens.
madam president, to tackle ageing in europe we need a care pact and strong public investment in social services, without losing sight of the gender perspective. thinking of women, but not to undermine their reproductive autonomy and turn them into childbearing machines in the service of the fatherland, but to give them a better old age than they have. because our grandmothers, the great caregivers, live worse than their male counterparts. they suffer from precariousness, unemployment and the wage gap when they are young and the pension gap when they are old. many live alone and have more difficulty accessing health services, long-term care or decent housing. when we look at population ageing, we have to think about the unequal distribution of care work and the labour penalisation of motherhood, rather than the prohibition of the right to abortion or those family-friendly policies that use the bodies of women of reproductive age to abandon them to their fate later. the key is to take care of them, of those who take care of us, but at all times of their lives.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, the energy transition is necessary, so we must switch to clean energy from wind turbines, among other things. however, more and more people on the european continent do not want windmills in their homes. "not in my backyard!" they shout. and then soon there's the sea view. then put the windmills there. the committee on fisheries of this parliament is almost unanimous in its view that the construction of offshore wind farms should be discussed with the fishermen. they are the oldest users of the sea, and that is why the theme of my report is 'windmills at sea, then fishermen decide'. i am not talking about a vague comment, but about the real, full participation of fishermen in the question of where these windmills should be placed in the sea. efficient and permanent consultation with fishermen and aquaculture producers will reduce or possibly even prevent conflicts in the construction of offshore wind turbines. and in this way, fishermen are on a level playing field with the powerful multinationals that build offshore wind turbines. i think that the fisheries committee has made a very wise choice. fishermen know best where the best fishing grounds are and want to preserve them and also fish sustainably. that is why i am also proposing in my report to examine the possibility of placing windmills in marine protected areas. that is why we are voting against the report. i also point out in my report, mr president, the risks involved in the construction of offshore wind farms. for example, when the poles are heated, a very loud sound of over 130 decibels is produced. you might compare it to the sound of a plane taking off very close to you. the question is what does this do to the fish? will they become temporarily or permanently deaf? and what effect does electromagnetic radiation from the cables have on electrically sensitive fish such as rays and sharks? to what extent is marine biodiversity affected by the construction, operation and demolition of wind turbines? more research is needed because these questions have not yet been adequately answered. the report stresses that offshore wind farms should only be built if negative environmental and ecological, as well as economic, socioeconomic and socio-cultural effects on fishermen and aquaculture producers, are excluded. that is what we call the precautionary principle. that must be applied, and we find that in article 191 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european commission is assessing the maritime spatial plans of the member states which are now being submitted in these months. in doing so, the commission must take account of the interests of fisheries and their effects on fisheries. that is my message to the commission today and i would like to hear the commission's response to that.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the commission welcomes the report by the committee on fisheries (pech) on the impact on fisheries of offshore windfarms and other renewable energy systems. on behalf of my colleague, virginijus sinkevičius, i want to thank in particular the rapporteur, peter van dalen, for all his work and strong commitment to this important issue. this report puts a much—needed emphasis on environmental considerations, the rational use of space and the involvement of all sea users. this is very much in the spirit of our new approach to a sustainable blue economy. under the european green deal, the european union is committed to becoming climate neutral by 2050 in order to mitigate the effects of climate change and related biodiversity loss. sustainably-sourced and circular renewable energy is essential to reaching this target. offshore wind energy needs to be developed in line with the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy 2030 and the circular economy action plan. the maritime spatial planning directive clearly stipulates having, in the early stages, both a dialogue and cooperation with the fishing community and all relevant stakeholders. the main goal of maritime special planning is to ensure access to maritime space for the different sea users and to facilitate the coexistence and synergies between those users, while safeguarding the marine environment. therefore, one of the actions under the new sustainable blue economy approach will be the creation of a blue forum for all users of the sea. in the blue forum, a dialogue will be coordinated between stakeholders from the fisheries, aquaculture, shipping, tourism and energy sectors, as well as scientists. the aim is to develop synergies and reconcile competing uses of the sea. the commission has carried out and financed several projects looking at a combination of fisheries or aquaculture on the one side, wind farms on the other side, and the relevant impacts. work in this area must continue. the commission is encouraging this, notably via the blue forum and the horizon europe mission on ocean waters, coastal and inland waters. in addition, best practices in terms of minimising disruption and mitigating damage to ecosystems will be shared and showcased by a new community of practices that will be launched by the end of this year. by march 2022, the commission will also submit the report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of maritime special planning interactions between sectors and stakeholders. consultation processes will be looked at carefully during the analysis of all available national maritime special plans. through the european maritime and fisheries fund, we are supporting cooperation projects for maritime special planning in all european union sea basins. by the end of 2020, we had already funded 13 such projects on maritime special planning for a total amount of more than eur 25 million. this cooperation will be continued and increased in the coming year to tackle new challenges. it is important to note that the maritime special planning process takes place in subsequent stages. plans will be regularly updated to fit new realities and policy developments at a minimum of every ten years. all offshore renewable energy developments must fully comply with european union environmental legislation, notably going through the environmental impact assessment before any project can begin. together with your eu strategy on offshore renewable energy, in november 2020, the commission adopted updated guidance on wind energy developments and european union natural legislation. this guidance notably looks at the combination and integration of offshore wind farms within marine protected areas. clearly, one does not exclude the other. the end of life of wind turbines and decommissioning also need to be looked at in terms of environmental impact at sea and in terms of recycling. therefore, the commission will, in the coming year, carry out further studies on technology development in offshore energy. these studies will also look at how the related infrastructure can be embedded sustainably in the marine environment and socio—economic ecosystems. the european union strategy on offshore renewable energy will boost emerging technologies that reduce the impact on fisheries, notably floating offshore wind, wave and tidal devices. to achieve this, we need to set clear, short and long—term targets for the ocean energy sector. finally, i would like to underline that easy access to renewable energy produced at sea in the form of electricity and hydrogen will create opportunities for decarbonising other blue sectors, notably shipping, fisheries and aquaculture. to end, offshore wind energy plays a key role in achieving the objectives of the european green deal. this commission is fully committed to ensuring that environmental, economic and social sustainability is achieved. we will therefore make sure that the fisheries and aquaculture sectors will be appropriately involved in all decision making in this context. before any offshore wind farms see the light, all projects will undergo – as i have already said – the necessary impact assessment. i’m convinced that ultimately we will achieve a win-win situation for all stakeholders, including the fishing community.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in time for the start of the citizens' forum, this important second central pillar of the conference on the future of europe which has just started, our report on democratic participation of people from all 27 member states will be put to the vote here in the plenary. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in this report and for the opinions of the associated and consultative committees peti, cult and libe. the great interest shown by civil society structures in the preparation of the report was very important to us - and we thank them for it. i specifically wanted this intensive involvement of ngos, committed scientists and volunteers, and those who, as subject- and subject-specific actors, ultimately help to shape citizens' views decisively. civil society is about commitment. the correctness of the planning approaches in the committee on constitutional affairs has rarely been more evident than in these days, when we are all called upon in our daily lives in our societies to combat the challenges of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic - not only with regard to the immediate consequences for health and immunization, but in general, with regard to the question of the solidarity of people living together in our european union, the question of state responsibility as well as the resilience of economic and social actors and the shaping of political structures in the interest of the general public. the democratization of democracy was a central point in many sociological and legal debates a few years ago, especially when it came to transparency and encouraging participation in political decision-making at european level. the united kingdom's decision to leave the european union by a vote of the people raises questions. what were the reasons? why was this decided? and what was expected of the citizens in terms of policy at both national and european level? the development of the european citizens' initiative was a right and important step in opening up concrete opportunities for people to have a say on a specific issue. but if we are honest, participation has too often remained in the consultation mechanism. the democratic formation of our societies depends on communication between people, on conscious participation in elections in a representative democracy, but much more on the daily involvement of each individual in social, political and economic conflicts, in order to develop the community in which he wants and can live and work. the journalist arno widmann put it in an essay: "the media is not the public, neither are we, nor are the others. publicity is the moment when a society knows itself. the aim of our report is therefore to give women a stronger voice in eu decision-making. to do this, we need to improve the existing participation mechanisms and set up new ones at eu level. it is therefore crucial to involve women citizens in european debates, to involve them actively in eu decision-making. only in this way can we also strengthen the sense of responsibility of citizens for an eu that reflects their needs and visions, develops a genuine european public and strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the eu. this includes strengthening education, both in its political and technical dimensions, as well as in its cultural dimension. we have developed a whole series of new instruments in the report. i hope that the proposals i have drawn up with my colleagues for better citizen participation in eu decision-making will be welcomed by the commission and will inspire many people to become actively involved in decision-making processes. i'm curious to hear your opinion, madam vice president.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of my colleague vice-president věra jourová, i thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on this important matter. the commission is fully committed to engaging with citizens in shaping european union policy. we have been using various methods and tools for some time. since 2012, the commission has promoted a format of citizens’ dialogues. these are open and direct dialogues between citizens and the european commission. sometimes senior commission officials participate on specific issues. more than 2 000 dialogues have been organised across all member states. i personally have participated in them and find them to be a valuable source of inspiration and exchange. in the last year, due to the pandemic, citizens’ dialogues have moved entirely online. i’m looking forward to meeting and discussing with citizens in person again too. dialogues allow the european commission to open the debate about europe to more and more people throughout the union. they have uncovered an increasing demand for events that enable people to be heard. many different participatory formats of dialogues have taken place over the years. workshops and other methods are frequently used to ensure the participation of all those attending the events. however, citizens’ dialogues are primarily a listening exercise. this is where the conference on the future of europe deepens citizens’ engagement. this unprecedented exercise in deliberative democracy at the european level has a built-in feedback mechanism. in the joint declaration the three presidents committed to following up on citizens’ input. crucially, citizens will be able to see the outcome of their inputs. the conference pan-european citizens panels as a key feature. a representative sample of 800 citizens will deliberate and come up with policy recommendations on the main topics addressed on the conference digital platform. these recommendations will feed into the overall conference discussions for follow up. but we want to go a step further. we are therefore doing our utmost to mainstream citizens’ participation in various policy domains. the conference is not a panacea for all ills. it will not replace representative democracy but will reinforce it. and i want to highlight this today here in this hemicycle. one of the tangible tools engaging europeans in the european union policy-making for the last nine years is the european citizens’ initiative. it gives all european citizens the power to directly ask the european commission to take action on matters they care about. on 30 june we have given a positive reply to the sixth successful initiative ‘end the cage age’ calling for prohibiting caging of various farm animals. this year legislative acts adopted in the follow up of two other european citizens’ initiatives – right to water and ban glyphosate – entered into application. this is evidence of the substantive legal and political impact of successful citizens’ initiatives. but the real impact of the european citizens’ initiative goes further. even initiatives that do not reach the final formal steps of the process can generate multiple impacts because the citizens’ initiative is first and foremost an agenda-setting tool. from the moment citizens start an initiative, they bring the issue they care about into the public space and to the attention of the commission. this year, we already registered six new citizens’ initiatives. we hope to receive many more in the future as we are further extending our information campaign – eu take the initiative – and the legal and practical advice offered by the forum on the european citizens’ initiative. honourable members, dear mr scholz, the commission will study your resolution and look at how to better involve citizens right from the early stages of policy-making. structurally embedding citizen engagement in the european union helps to address some of the frustrations and concerns of our citizens and contributes to bringing the european union closer to them.
rapporteur. – madam president, when the world recovered in the last century from two world wars it became clear that international trade policy would become the centre of recovery and it brought us a full century of prosperity. today, we are recovering from a pandemic and are heading towards the same direction, putting trade at the centre of recovery. but we have to take care that we do it in a different way, that we make sure that the 21st century recovery and stability put sustainability at the centre, and that is why european trade policy should change. with this pandemic, we saw the face of biodiversity degradation and what will increasingly happen if we do not make sure that our economy becomes climate neutral. our global actions cannot be limited to statements and non-binding commitments on big conferences. international trade policy in europe needs to walk the talk of the green deal. this means for instance that we need to bring an end to fossil fuels, that green goods need to receive preferential treatment over brown goods and it means that the trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapters become really sanction-based. during the crisis we also saw the decline of multilateralism. while our healthcare workers around the world had to combat a dangerous virus, governments struggled to buy personal protective equipment and basic medicines. prices surged and there was no transparency on available stocks and production capacity. weakened already by the trump presidency, the world trade organization and the world health organization struggled to come up with real answers and instead national responses took over, with dramatic export bans and disrupted supply chains. next time when the world faces a new pandemic, cooperation should be the first answer, not the last one, with strong international bodies to take on leadership. in this report, the european parliament asks for strong support for an international pandemic treaty with a real and very robust trade pillar. we ask to establish a trade and health committee in the twelfth ministerial conference (mc12). more than ever, we also faced global inequalities. while the west was in lockdown, workers in the east were working around the clock to make our face masks – unprotected and with hunger wages for their services to the world. and while the economic figures are arriving in europe, we see that women in africa are struggling to make a living in their micro-businesses, with debt and inflation just around the corner. that’s why we need mandatory due diligence across the supply chain, and fair and ethical trade schemes. while the eu is a producer of the most vaccines in the world and an exporter, we see that the bulk of these productions go to g20 countries. europe’s global vaccination strategy is not guided by political leadership, but by companies. at a time of crisis the rest of the world needs to know that they can count on europe. this is a staunch warning not to isolate ourselves in the current discussion on intellectual property rights. go and set yourselves at the right side of history. of course at the same time we need to be assertive towards countries which undermine human rights and rule-based trade and democracy. a ban on products made with forced labour, an upgraded trade defence toolbox, effective sanction mechanisms on human rights need to be in place before the european parliament even can think of starting the ratification of the investment agreement with china. dear colleagues, trade policy is the most powerful and the most important tool the eu has on the international stage. it is the lever which can unlock the green deal and europe’s industrial strategy for a climate-neutral continent. it is the key to unlocking the economic potential of developing partners and bringing stability to our neighbourhoods. it is the vehicle with which europe can forge alliances and use its economic power to tackle global changes and global challenges such as pandemics. we need to do that together.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of vice—president valdis dombrovskis, i want to thank parliament and the committee on international trade (inta committee) and our rapporteur, kathleen van brempt, for the attention, work and time invested in this report. i also want to thank you for your involvement in the trade policy review process, which led to the adoption by the commission of the communication on an open, sustainable and assertive trade policy on 18 february. i fully share your analysis about the special context in which the trade policy review is taking place. as you rightly pointed out, trade policy finds itself at a crossroads. this is why there is a need for a new eu trade and investment strategy. this must take into account the difficult current geopolitical reality, including the challenges of the covid—19 crisis, and also those stemming from our ambitions linked to the green and digital transitions. the new trade policy strategy is built on three pillars: openness, sustainability and assertiveness. the key challenge we face is to find the right balance between these three elements. on openness: reaffirming our commitment to open, fair and rules—based trade is not just eu idealism. it is an economic and political necessity. the competitiveness of our economy depends on it. this is particularly evident in the multilateral space. again, i thank you for supporting our plans to lead an in—depth reform of the world trade organization. it is in this spirit of openness that european union has proposed that wto members agree as soon as possible on a global trade initiative for equitable access to covid—19 vaccines and medicines. the european union also stands ready to support close cooperation between international bodies, especially the recently—announced intensified collaboration of the wto, the world health organization and the world intellectual property organization in fighting the pandemic. in your report, you underlined the need for the european union to enhance its strategic autonomy, notably to secure access to critical raw materials, goods and services, especially medical and pharmaceutical goods. this is a legitimate request that is supported by the openness of our economy. this is why the overarching concept guiding the strategy is the model of open strategic autonomy. to address today’s most pressing challenges, such as climate change and biodiversity loss or the covid—19 crisis, we need more rather than less global cooperation. a policy of open strategic autonomy will therefore allow the european union to continue reaping the benefits of international opportunities, while at the same time assertively defending our interests, protecting our economy from unfair trade practices and ensuring a level playing field. i welcome that sustainability is very much at the forefront of the european parliament’s priorities in your resolution. this is in line with the new strategy, which represents a clear choice for a green and progressive trade policy. it puts the green transition and protection of labour rights at the very heart of european union trade policy. more concretely, i also agree with the view expressed by the european parliament that we need to work further on issues such as fair, resilient and sustainable value chains, the enforceability of trade and sustainable development chapters, and the importance of delivering an efficient carbon border adjustment mechanism. we shall also continue our efforts in promoting resource—efficient and circular economy models around the world through the trade levers. the dialogues on these issues will continue in particular during the review of the 15—point action plan on trade and sustainable development, which will be launched very soon. on assertiveness, i certainly agree with many of the points made in this resolution. in particular, i agree with the idea that our openness should go hand—in—hand with effective rules, ensuring fair competition and a level playing field for european businesses. i also agree with you that where cooperation is not possible, the european union should pursue its interests through autonomous measures to protect its values and fight against unfair trading practices in accordance with international law. so this is very much in line with our clear shift towards stronger implementation and enforcement and with the new instruments that we are proposing, such as the foreign subsidies instrument and the future anti—coercion instrument. finally, i would like to emphasise that the commission intends to build on the very positive trade policy review process and continue the dialogue and engagement on trade policy with all key stakeholders. i want to thank you, honourable members.
the rapporteur. madam president, i am glad that this important report is voted on this week. i would like to thank all the members who contributed to the final text; i would especially like to thank the alternative rapporteurs for their work. we were very ambitious from the beginning. we wanted a text that would send a strong and clear political signal on the role of the european union in defence matters. we also wanted this report to be voted on in committee before the nato summit and the eu-us summit. i am glad that the conclusions of both summits are very much in line with our report, showing that the european union can really be an added value to the current transatlantic defence structure. ladies and gentlemen, the report naturally stresses the importance of our transatlantic partnership. it also highlights our common history, our common values and our common successes. the report clearly states that we are faced with a unique opportunity to strengthen cooperation between the european union and nato. member states are currently establishing the strategic compass for european security and defence based on joint threat analysis. at the same time, nato is updating its strategic concept, highlighting the alliance's vision for its security environment and objectives for the next decade. both projects will provide a clear window of opportunity to establish coherent priorities and identify additional synergies. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. we have consistently demonstrated in the text that the instruments and powers of the european union can contribute to the nato mandate. some people have always been skeptical about the idea of the european union as an active actor with its own defence capabilities. but i think that after a few years in which europe felt alone in the world, initiatives like the eec or the edf are now seen as a necessity rather than a luxury. the european union is not an obstacle to the main defence interests of nato or the united states. the european union can be a complementary actor in helping to avoid redundancy and duplication. the us participation in the military mobility project of the cep is further proof. the report highlights that member states and nato allies face a common reality of systematic competition, alongside new common threats, which have a significant impact on the security of our citizens. our adversaries and authoritarian rivals not only employ military force, but also a wide range of tools aimed at weakening our democracies. it's only recently that we've realized just how powerful these tools can be, such as hybrid threats, cyberattacks, foreign interference or election manipulation and disinformation campaigns. although the european union and nato are not the same, their competences and expertise can complement each other in addressing these challenges. we need to strike the right balance between ambition and realism; serious steps are being taken to tackle the fragmentation of european defence industries, invest in interoperability, conduct common threat analyses and expand civilian and military missions. let me conclude by saying that it is of the utmost importance that this parliament shows that we take european and transatlantic defence seriously. those who oppose this cooperation and the european union's efforts to strengthen its defence capability are playing the game of russia and china: to have a weak and divided europe. strengthening the strategic alliance between the european union and the atlantic alliance is essential to confront common threats and to make the european union a stronger global actor and partner.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of my colleague, high representative and vice president, josep borrell, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, antonio lópez—istúriz white, for the comprehensive report on eu—nato cooperation in the context of transatlantic relations. let me welcome that it incorporates a number of elements of key importance and relevance for eu—nato cooperation, such as emphasising the european union’s ambition to be a global actor for peace and security, highlighting that the european union’s strategic autonomy strengthens transatlantic security, reaffirming the importance of key principles guiding eu—nato cooperation and calling for coherence between the two reflection processes, notably the strategic compass on the european union side and nato 2030 on nato’s side. in the current strategic environment and in light of the common challenges, joining and closely coordinating our efforts is the most obvious choice. enhanced eu—nato cooperation remains instrumental in bringing europe and north america closer. we seek to deepen the fostering of the transatlantic bond. cooperation with nato remains a key priority for the european union, as confirmed by the council on several occasions. last month, the nato summit communiqué reaffirmed that the european union is a unique and essential partner for nato. the two joint declarations of 2016 and 2018, together with the 74 common actions for implementation, provide a well-established, solid and comprehensive framework for cooperation. it is based on a strong political mandate received from both eu member states and nato allies. the nato summit invited the secretary-general to develop the next strategic concept to be endorsed at the next summit. at the same time, on our side, we are taking forward our reflection process, which will lead to the adoption of the strategic compass in march next year. rest assured that we see a clear need for coherence between these two reflection processes. we are working in this direction in full respect of the decision—making autonomy of both organisations. in the wake of a very successful eu—us summit and as we approach the fifth anniversary of the warsaw joint declaration, we see clear political momentum for further strengthening our strategic partnership and taking our cooperation to the next level. we are exploring ways regarding the common way forward, a renewed political commitment to take the form of a new joint declaration. i count on the continued support of the european parliament in further strengthening our mutually reinforcing and beneficial strategic partnership with nato.
in writing. – the report on the eu-nato cooperation in the context of transatlantic relations could not be timely. europe and north america face multiple common threats – threats to our democracies, climate change, pandemics, terrorism as well as challenges linked to cyber and hybrid threats. i would like to underline also information manipulation and coordinated disinformation campaigns, on which am preparing the report for the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union. all these challenges require a united and cooperative transatlantic approach bringing together our institutions and members. a truly strategic eu-nato partnership is essential to pool our strengths and foster our shared resilience. it is particularly important for latvia and other baltic states, which are facing the hybrid warfare, directed by revisionist russia. therefore, i fully welcome the call of the report for much more enhanced and strategic cooperation across euro-atlantic space. however, the transatlantic community can only protect its citizens if we live up to commitments and ensure adequate resources to deal with the known challenges. i also believe that the military competencies of nato and the eu and expertise are complementary to address common challenges.
in writing. the conclusions and proposals of the eu-nato cooperation report are broadly sound and convey a clear message of the need to deepen cooperation. but i believe that the main problem is the eu's unwillingness and inability to move beyond declarations and rhetoric to make cooperation more practical and more useful for european security. eu-nato cooperation has been held hostage to the turkish-greek dispute for historical reasons. at the same time, both organisations have sought to find opportunities for strategic cooperation in the light of the security threats and developments of the last decade, because common sense and experience make it very clear that only close cooperation between them can ensure european security. i am convinced that, in addition to the nato summit agendas, where cooperation with the european union is very important, the heads of state or government of the european union should also regularly discuss cooperation with nato in the general council, because only in this way can it be made more practical and better in line with european interests. unfortunately, the recent decisions and actions taken by the eu do not provide the optimism that the european parliament's report seeks to convey. it is clear that when the eu had to decide on the military mobility package, the most substantial and practical cooperation project, in the 2021-2027 budgetary framework, the eu funding ended up being significantly less than originally planned. the eu has, in my view, a very good potential to be an active partner for nato. but to do that, words and deeds must coincide!
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members and the rapporteur, ms gabriele bischoff, in particular for consulting the commission on these amendments of its rules of procedure. this is foreseen in paragraph 21 of the framework agreement on the relations between the two institutions. the commission gave due consideration to the amendments adopted in december last year to ensure the functioning of parliament under extraordinary circumstances, in particular those linked to the covid-19 pandemic. the commission takes note of the current amendments which mainly concern internal arrangements of the european parliament. these amendments mostly aim at ensuring legal certainty by updating a number of references in order to take account of recently adopted legal texts. in particular, the commission notes the amendment to rule 99 on discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget amended to include a reference to the new financial regulation, that is regulation (eu, euratom) 2018/1046. the commission knows that the rule 235 on powers and responsibilities relating to european political parties and european political foundations was amended to include a reference to the same regulation, and the commission notes the reference of the regulation (eu) 2019/1673 on the european citizens’ initiative in rule 222 on public hearings and debates on citizens’ initiatives, and rule 230 on the citizens’ initiative. the commission does not have any comments related to these amendments. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s commitment to ensure gender balance within its internal bodies as reflected in the amendment to rule 213 on the bureau of parliamentary committees. we understand that the revision of the rules of procedure is a work in progress. additional amendments might be considered in the future to take into account further developments. this is relevant in the context of the reflection process launched by president sassoli on how to improve the democratic work of parliament and draw lessons from the recent pandemic. the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission is the written translation of the spirit of sincere and mutual cooperation that should govern the relations between our two institutions. it is therefore of the utmost importance that parliament and the commission duly implement its provisions, both when it comes to claiming rights and to respect obligations. in this context, the commission expects to continue to be informed on and stands ready to respond to any consultation on future amendments to the parliament’s rules of procedure that would affect the mutual cooperation. i want to thank you very much for your work and am looking forward to our cooperation.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the presentation of the slovenian presidency's work programme (2021/2728 ((rsp)).
the chairman of the council. mr president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! almost exactly thirty years ago, the slovenes created their own state. a year earlier, we had our first multiparty elections. during that period, as many as 90 percent of voters in a referendum supported the dream of an independent state. only once in history has so many of our citizens supported a particular decision. and that was the decision on slovenia's accession to the european union. for us slovenes, being part of the european union has never been just an economic opportunity. it meant returning to a family bound by the values of respect for human rights and fundamental political freedoms and democracy. everything that was taken from us or violated in communist yugoslavia. this return to europe coincided with the fundamental historical mission of the european union, which was dictated by the fall of the totalitarian communist regimes in europe. the creation of a europe that is whole and free, at peace with itself and with its neighbours. the european union today is quite different from what it was when we joined and also during the first presidency of the council of the european union and then also of the european council. it can be said that the presidency of the first half of 2008 was the last presidency not to be marked by one or other of the severe crises. and then there was the financial crisis, the migration crisis, the occupation of crimea and the creation of frozen conflicts in our eastern neighborhood, and then brexit, and since the beginning of last year, the coronavirus pandemic. and in times of crisis, the european union was primarily compelled to respond to them and also to try to mitigate them as quickly as possible. we strongly hope that this semester marks the time when the european union can and must begin to act more strategically, more long-term, towards the goal set by the founding fathers of the european union. europe, free, at peace with itself, whole and at peace with its neighbours. slovenia is taking over the presidency of the council of the european union for the second time since it became a member of the european union. it will round off the work of the trio, in which we have been involved with germany and portugal, and with initiatives, some initiatives and activities, we have been involved in the work of the trio from the very beginning. at this point, we would like to thank germany and portugal for a job well done in the very difficult circumstances of the pandemic. for the second half of this year, our semester, we have some challenges and priorities that arise from the situation in which the european union finds itself today, but which we believe also contribute to the existence and development of the union. the first priority is, of course, resilience and recovery after the pandemic and the establishment of a strategically autonomous union. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and overhaul of buildings, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings. we are pleased that the recovery is set in a way that is also reform-oriented and that we will recover simultaneously as we implement the green and digital transition. the next priority is a union of the european way of life, the rule of law and equal standards for all, for all member states and for all citizens in the member states of the european union. this is also a union of balanced rights and responsibilities, with a high level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to freedom of expression. the priority is then to have a credible and secure european union, a union capable of ensuring security and stability not only on its own territory but also in its neighbourhood. this is also a question of good cooperation with and within the north atlantic alliance, since most of the member states of the european union are also members of this alliance. then it is about projecting our values and stability into our neighbourhood and it is about a union of protected external borders and clear demarcation between legal and illegal migration. and then we have, or we have already started well, this conference on the future of europe, or, to be more precise, first a conference and a discussion on the future of the european union and, of course, also talks on the future of europe as a continent. here we want to organise as many debates as possible over the next six months, open to all who wish to contribute their suggestions to shaping a common european future. since this is a question of the common european future, we are all called to this debate, without anyone feeling that he or she is chosen and called to teach others about the future of europe. here, it is necessary to ensure a level playing field so that everyone, regardless of their differences, can contribute their views on how they envisage this common european future. we have the basis for this debate in the existing treaties, and within that framework, all views are welcome, even if they are contradictory, because only an open debate can bring us forward. let me just highlight a few key points, not all of which are possible at this time, and start with the challenge that we still have ahead of us, which is the covid-19 pandemic. the effects of this crisis are visible every day, and we feel them here today because we wear masks. we're wondering what's going to happen in the coming weeks and months, when the number of delta cases will inevitably increase, and what kind of fall is in store. now, of course, with a lot of caution, despite the much less pressure of the pandemic and the opening up of public life, we are doing everything we can to be prepared for this possible fourth wave and that it does not present the same obstacles and the same trials that we saw last fall. we are optimistic above all because we see that the european vaccination strategy is working, that it is delivering results. of course, the more optimistic expectations for the future are primarily about accelerated vaccination and the actual willingness of the vast majority of our fellow citizens to actually get vaccinated, not to wait for others to do it for them, and to reach a certain level of vaccination that is sufficient to keep them out. this is the key question now, how to convince our fellow citizens that everyone who gets vaccinated is the one who contributes to our future normal life, and that's anywhere in europe, because as we see, the virus knows no borders and this is our common challenge. one of the things that allows us to live much more normally, or expect to live much more normally, through the summer and the fall, despite the virus, is the european digital covid certificate. congratulations on reaching an agreement between the institutions in such a short time, so that this certificate can actually be used and that this certificate also allows the member states, in matters falling within their national competence, to live and organise much more freely than without it. in short, if our first short-term priority is to do everything we can to avoid a fourth wave that would shut down public life and threaten development in the european union again, then our best hope is that we will nonetheless return to a cautious pre-covid normalcy in these six months, even though some precautions will obviously have to be maintained for some time. the resilience and recovery of the european union and a strategically autonomous union is something that is a priority at this time, regardless of who is leading the council of the european union. in addition to the vigilant, vigilant and as coordinated and coordinated as possible further response to the pandemic, we therefore have the responsible task of recovery and also of ensuring a more resilient future for the european union, a greater resilience, a greater readiness to deal with a crisis such as the epidemic. a lot has been done in europe since the beginning of the covid crisis, when we were not prepared to do our best. in fact, no country in the world, with a few exceptions, was quick to respond, but outside the european continent, because no country was prepared for it and we didn't have the best start, but today the picture is quite different. a timely agreement on a recovery plan was reached, which is a huge success. those of us who were present at the four-day european council in july know this firsthand. i would like to thank the commission for having, from the outset, removed some of the restrictions on the instruments needed to respond to the financial crisis. this has prevented the drastic declines in standards and crises that occurred during the financial and economic crisis, in particular in 2009, and has facilitated the recovery. the european union is also among the leaders in research, production and also export of vaccines. the european vaccination strategy is working. what remains to be done at this moment and what lies ahead of us is no longer up to the european commission, the european parliament, the governments of the national states, it is now up to each individual. we have the tool, we have the vaccine, and now it's up to you, my fellow citizens, my fellow europeans, to use it and actually stop this epidemic. we're also at a point where we can help others. the european union is by far the largest solidarity donor, the one that donates vaccines, and so far, it's over 100 million doses to the less developed countries, and we can and should do a lot more of that in the future. during the covid crisis, we learned some very important lessons. the european commission's lessons learned document lists them in more detail, and i will mention just a few. it is clear that we need a common european plan to deal with crises such as covid, a plan for cases where such a crisis is, where such a threat is symmetrical, where it affects everyone, as well as plans for situations where the threat is asymmetrical, where it affects only some member states and where we can help others. it is very important here to know what we can do together and when we need to do something together. as we saw last year, national measures, which are obviously necessary in the absence of a common plan, can have major crossborder effects on other member states, the internal market of the european union and the four freedoms are very vulnerable in a crisis, all of which we experienced last year. just think of the truck trains that were all over europe a year ago, and we'll all know what needs to be done. now, of course, we also have our vulnerability and our dependence on third countries for certain strategic assets that were critical in this crisis, such as personal protective equipment, critical medical equipment, medicines or ingredients for medicines, and, ultimately, the ingredients needed for vaccines. our aim must be to replace these ad hoc solutions, which we used during the crisis and learned a lot from, with permanent structural measures, plans that will be made in advance, and here we want to complete the work on the establishment of a european health union. a lot of work has already been done here. and i think that at least there is a high level of agreement among all the member states and the european institutions on what steps need to be taken to build this health union. as recent events in the united states and ireland have shown, we can very quickly find ourselves in a situation where a large-scale cyber attack can have consequences as devastating as the spread of a virus, and even worse, if our energy grid is attacked, for example. the development of joint cyber defence plans and the building of joint capabilities, which is already underway, are our primary tasks. the european union also exists to deal successfully with such a symmetrical or asymmetrical threat. no member state, not even the largest, is strong enough to deal with such a threat, given that we share energy networks and so on. and here only a common plan and also common capabilities make effective defence possible, because there are at least two sources of serious threat, which no single country in the european union can, according to the information known so far, stand alone against. all countries have committed to a significant share of digital and green investments in their national recovery plans. and here, when we talk about digitisation and the digital transition, the european union faces considerable challenges. in many places around here, we're lagging behind the other major players in the world. to give you a few examples: in the european union, we have companies that produce the best photolithography equipment, which is the key technology for making semiconductors, but we assemble and manufacture less than one percent of the world's production in europe. moreover, although europe has the most prestigious universities and the most technologically advanced laboratories, we only design or ultimately manufacture one per cent of the world's semiconductors, and without semiconductors there is no sign of digitisation and digital transition. we have the knowledge, we have the capabilities, but we need to use them and we need to decide where the boundary between trade cooperation is and where european autonomy begins when it comes to critical infrastructure and when it comes to critical products. and here is the fact that the european union must become as autonomous as possible. on the other hand, of course, when it comes to digitisation, we want to act in line with our european values. among them, of course, are the right to privacy, the protection of personal data. these are values that some of our competitors, when it comes to digitization, are not really at the forefront of. the regulation of digital services, the regulation of artificial intelligence and the related area of data management are therefore more challenging for us than for anyone outside the european union, and these are all topics where we will continue to seek a balance between competitiveness on the one hand and respect for european values on the other during our semester. and if we can find the right balance in our internal debate, then i believe that the european union can also take a leading role in shaping digital standards on a global level, which is the next very big challenge. last december, we set a very ambitious target of reducing emissions by 55 percent by 2030. to this end, we would like to encourage other countries around the world to follow our example. but it's not just a question of ambition, it's also a question of how to convince others of the standards that are needed to achieve those goals. outside europe, i think, more than 90 percent of co2 is emitted, and here success can only be achieved globally. europe can be a leader, but it cannot achieve this goal alone, and here, but in this, we must also ensure that the individual parts of europe do not pay too high a price for this transition, that we do not destroy european industries and, of course, what our fellow citizens are most concerned about, that the prices of electricity and fuel do not rise disproportionately and have a significant impact on the decline in the quality of life. the european commission will propose a major legislative package on climate and energy next week. we expect a proposal to be presented that is balanced and fair to all, and in this way we can hope to reach agreement on how to translate our ambitious climate goals into binding law in the shortest possible time. it has also provided a good basis for the union's action in the international arena, notably at the climate negotiations in glasgow this november. a union of the european way of life, the rule of law and equal standards for all. europeans, hand to heart, we don't often think about what the european way of life means, because we live it, we are in the middle of it. it seems obvious to us, but of course it's not. the social market economy is a european invention. in other parts of the world, economic and social relations are regulated somewhat or quite differently from ours. there are many who envy our solutions. so when we talk about european legislation on minimum wages or the cross-border transfer of social security rights, let us keep this in mind. we have, for example, the european model of sport. it's not based on elitism, it's not based on elitism or exclusion in principle, but on equal opportunities, starting points, opportunities for all, on connecting local communities, on belonging. and of course at the very heart of the european way of life are some of our common european values. this is the equal dignity of every human being, the inherent inalienable rights of man and the fundamental political freedoms. respect for the rule of law on the basis of equal criteria is essential for citizens' trust in public institutions. it is also a key condition for mutual trust between member states in the european union and, when it comes to rule of law issues, we must be clear that in the end, when it comes to the rule of law, what is right and what is wrong is always decided by an independent judicial body and not by a political body. the quality of the functioning of the justice system is also important here. it must be based on an independent, impartial and non-selective judiciary which, in each member state, strives for justice and ensures legal protection without delay and without unreasonably long time limits. what mankind speaks of as right, the rule is that right is delayed, right is denied. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data. this is particularly necessary in environments with media monopolies, which unfortunately also exist in the european union. in this context, the slovenian presidency recalls the resolution of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe no 1096 and the european parliament resolution on european consciousness and totalitarianism. the guidance and warnings they provide are of lasting importance for the development of resilient, vital democracies, and in particular for the realisation of the historic goal of a europe that is whole, free and at peace with itself. some of the guidelines and warnings of both resolutions have not yet been implemented in some of the younger european democracies. this is where we see some of the deeper reasons for the mutual misunderstandings on the rule of law in the individual member states of the european union. many are unwilling and unable to see cases where the standards and guarantees of the rule of law do not in fact protect the european values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union, but on the contrary, the institutions of the rule of law, which have only formally assumed new roles with the transition to democracy, and have not undermined them, serve primarily to defend undue privileges and to maintain a culture of action built up over decades of undemocratic regimes and practices that diminish the space of freedom and perpetuate entrenched inequalities and even injustice. these issues will also be discussed at the international conference to be held in slovenia on the occasion of the european day of remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian regimes on 23 august this year. it is also our common responsibility and our permanent task to keep alive the memory of the fact that the awareness of the necessity of european integration processes was formed precisely in the difficult and undemocratic historical trials of the twentieth century, which have befallen and marked the peoples of the present-day member states of the european union, although each in its own way and for different periods of time. a credible and secure european union, capable of ensuring security and stability also in its neighbourhood. we believe it is time for the european union to become more strategic in its thinking and actions in its engagement with the world. and that's especially true for our immediate neighborhood. slovenia, as the presidency of the council of the european union, will therefore give priority to the european union's cooperation with the western balkans region as well as with its eastern neighbourhood this semester. when we talk about the western balkans, it is a region of strategic importance for the union, and that is why we will co-host the european union summit on the western balkans with the president of the european council in slovenia in october. we believe that the enlargement of the european union is the logical response to the strategic challenges we face, both in the eastern neighbourhood and in the western balkans. slovenia is well aware, from its own experience, of the importance of the european perspective for the implementation of reforms in the accession negotiations process. but that perspective must be tangible, such that it can be believed to be realized within the lifetime of the current generation, or it is no longer an incentive. and this sensitivity must inspire and be the source of the political energy needed to implement the necessary reforms at the political level, it must be the source of the energy and the focus of the political awareness of citizens to be able to offer bottom-up support to these reforms. our aim is to reaffirm, reawaken and revive the european perspective of the western balkan countries, as set out at the thessaloniki summit in 2003. and i think that if we do that, then we will prove that we are a strategic player here, and if we are not able to do that, if we do not take steps forward in the western balkans, someone else will take those steps and they have different interests and different values. the issue of migration is also closely linked to the western balkans region. this is one of the two main migration routes into the european union, i mean illegal migration, and when it comes to migration, there is a demanding dossier on the table here too. i think we can agree on the importance of cooperation with countries of origin and transit. we know what we need to do here, theoretically. there is also no difference between us on the importance of reinforcing control of the external border, there is a high level of agreement. there is, of course, less agreement on some parts of the migration pact, such as the issue of relocation and solidarity and responsibility. and here we are looking for solutions that are acceptable to all countries, because only in this way can we ensure that the new system will eventually be put into practice. illegal migration has also put a heavy burden on the functioning of the schengen area over the past years. schengen is one of the most important achievements of our integration process. we believe that it is particularly important here, at a time when we are hopefully returning to normalcy, to ask about the extension of this area, so that it can be put on the agenda. we consider that any member state that fulfils the conditions should be allowed to join the schengen area. in our view, bulgaria, romania and croatia are being unnecessarily kept in a waiting room, and this is not in their interests or in the interests of the european union. and let me conclude by saying a few words about the conference on the future of europe. i am glad that the discussion on the organisational aspects of the conference is over, that it is now time for a substantive debate, time for the voice of europeans to be heard. the debate will allow very concrete conclusions to be drawn in the spring of next year. i think we are facing a great opportunity for this frank debate, that somehow this is the time with the conference on the future of europe, that it coincides with many issues that are open or that are re-opened. in slovenia, we will be organising debates on the future of the european union as part of this year's bled strategic forum, to which we will be inviting a number of guests from the european union institutions, national leaders, former leaders who participated in the debates on the constitution for europe, the lisbon treaty, european think tanks, citizens and, of course, representatives of all the political groups in this parliament. there are a number of open questions here, such as the poor demographic trends in most member states and the different views on how to tackle the demographic issue. then, in much of the european union, we face, for example, low voter turnout in elections to the european parliament. other fundamental questions of european democracy remain open, the question of the gap between the average european and the european institutions, the attempts by unwilling actors to take over the role of those elected by the voters. we have more and more time to spend on political bickering within the european union and less time to have serious discussions about strategic and development dilemmas. we are at the crossroads of many paths, but we also need some answers, or at least a debate on which way to go to find answers to some strategic foreign and security policy dilemmas. for example, how to strengthen the role of the european union so that it can have a stronger influence on the trends of globalisation. when we adopted the lisbon treaty, i was one of the signatories, in lisbon, we said that this treaty would enable the european union to steer globalisation. today we must ask ourselves where we are actually capable of doing this and where we still have a great deal to do to do it. then, there is a need to reach a consensus on whether and how rapid enlargement of the european union in the western balkans and the eastern neighbourhood is a strategic response to strategic challenges. the question then arises whether there is any good alternative to a stronger security and military engagement by the european union in sub-saharan africa, in the sahel region, where terrorism is preventing the most basic humanitarian, educational and development projects from being carried out, and this danger is growing almost month by month. then how to define the long-term relationship between the european union and the russian federation, between the european union and turkey, which is becoming the most influential factor in the mediterranean. then, as already mentioned, where is the boundary between the economic and trade relations between the european union and china and the necessary strategic autonomy of the european union. then how to strengthen relations with india, the largest democracy on the planet, in a comprehensive and rapid manner. i think we also need to have a frank conversation in this debate about, say, our responsibility for the victims and the suffering that has been and will be because we are pulling out of afghanistan and leaving the people there at the mercy of the taliban. we must agree that in the future we will not engage in activities that merely destroy something, not allowing for the building of something new, better, more lasting. we also need to wake up and realise that the european union's great, good and indispensable soft power, unprecedented in the global world, is nowhere good enough, because we are not able to guarantee people basic security and basic human rights. that the european union, if it is to become a leading regional and then equally global power, simply needs a combination of soft and hard power. ladies and gentlemen, for our near-term future, the most important thing right now is to stop the pandemic and recover as quickly as possible from it, and to include the digital and green transitions in that recovery. for the good of the future in general, for the good of our own future and that of future generations of europeans, it is most important that we openly discuss the open strategic dilemmas and find common solutions that will pave the way forward.
president of the commission. – mr president, in recent days, i’ve been travelling a lot through member states because of next generation eu and i have met europeans from all walks of life. i met passionate young women in brussels who are training to become coders within seven months. i met stage designers in cinecittà in rome. it was fascinating to see how they weave together the time—tested traditional studio production with the new digital technologies. i was privileged to meet doctors and medical personnel during my visit to ljubljana last thursday. they are the tireless and courageous frontline workers to overcome covid—19, and i was deeply impressed by their energy and their motivation and also by their commitment to our common future. they all welcomed the investments made available by next generation eu. this recovery programme is going to frame our action during the slovenian presidency. europeans want to finally leave this pandemic behind and all of us are there to help them achieve exactly that. und zuallererst bleibt unsere impfkampagne entscheidend. die gute nachricht ist: sie wird endlich zu einer erfolgsgeschichte. mit anderen worten: es zeigt sich, dass sich das durchhaltevermögen gelohnt hat. mitte april lagen wir noch 25 % hinter den vereinigten staaten, wenn man die anzahl der erwachsenen mit mindestens einer impfung betrachtet. heute sind dies nur noch 5 %, und die lücke schließt sich immer weiter. das ist gut, aber wir dürfen uns auf keinen fall zurücklehnen. wenn wir uns die impfquote anschauen, dann gibt es noch immer erhebliche unterschiede zwischen den mitgliedstaaten. derweil breitet sich die delta-variante aus, und viel zu viele impfdosen bleiben ungenutzt im kühlschrank liegen. das heißt, wir müssen unsere anstrengungen deutlich steigern, um die menschen in europa davon zu überzeugen, sich impfen zu lassen. impfungen bedeuten schutz, impfungen bedeuten übrigens auch freiheit. der beste beweis dafür sind die 250 millionen europäerinnen und europäer, die sich ihr eu-covid-zertifikat heruntergeladen haben und sich damit auch frei bewegen. das ist ein großer erfolg. europa liefert, und wir werden mit dem slowenischen ratsvorsitz intensiv daran arbeiten, diese erfolge zu vertiefen. this is also true when it comes to our economic recovery. in recent weeks, we raised eur 35 billion on the capital markets. they were massively oversubscribed. this will not only allow the pre—financing to be disbursed quickly, but this also demonstrates the profound trust investors have in europe. so now we are fully ready, and i know i can count on the slovenian presidency to approve as many national plans as possible before the end of july. the next six months will be crucial to ensure that next generation eu delivers on the transformation that europe needs. we have now assessed 14 plans and there are many more to come. the good news is that europeans are investing like never before in education and skills, in labour market reforms, and in affordable and energy—efficient housing. just to give you some numbers, until now eur 45 billion will be spent on education, upskilling and reskilling alone. we all know this builds the bridge into the labour market of the future for people who have to go through this transition with us. in addition, eur 15 billion have been earmarked to increase the efficiency of public employment services, also crucial for the labour market. in other words, this time we will get out of the crisis together, we will modernise our economies and we will leave nobody behind. this is what europeans expect from us and the slovenian presidency: to work together, despite our differences, in order to deliver results for each and every european, and the commission is ready to do that. but the way in which we leave this crisis behind is also linked to the question of trust – trust investors and businesses can have in good governance, trust that sound measures to fight corruption and fraud are in place, and trust in free media and independent courts. this is also important for european taxpayers because they ultimately finance the recovery. therefore i count on the slovenian government to continue the important work on the rule of law files. we will present our second edition of our rule of law reports in the coming weeks. in these reports, we scrutinise the situation in each and every member state according to the same criteria. i look forward to the discussions of these reports, because our last meeting with leaders demonstrated how central values and the rule of law are, and tomorrow, in our debate on the last european council, we will discuss how to best defend our values and the eu’s financial interests. mesdames et messieurs les députés, la slovénie est aussi une passerelle vers les balkans occidentaux. je me félicite donc que la slovénie, dans le cadre de sa présidence, souhaite mettre l’accent sur les relations de l’europe avec cette région. je suis sûre que le sommet de l’union européenne avec les balkans occidentaux, qui se tiendra en octobre, enverra un message important aux pays concernés: le message qu’ils sont des partenaires stratégiques essentiels pour l’union européenne. et j’espère qu’avec la présidence slovène, nous pourrons dynamiser les processus d’adhésion de l’albanie et de la macédoine du nord. c’est dans notre propre intérêt et c’est une question de crédibilité, parce que pour l’europe, une promesse donnée doit être une promesse tenue. slovenia knows how important that is. in 2008, slovenia was the first of the new member states to take on the eu presidency. back then, 13 years ago, you, prime minister janša, were serving as prime minister of your country for the very first time – and some might still remember the remarkable speech you held right here in the hemicycle. you reminded the members of the european parliament that people who were not born in the european union have a very special relationship to our union. you said, ‘for us, the european union is not something to be taken for granted. we are prepared to do everything to ensure that the european union is preserved, developed and strengthened’. to preserve, to develop and to strengthen our union: this noble task is an obligation for all of us, in the next six months, and of course beyond. to preserve our values, values like diversity, the freedom of the media and the rule of law, to strengthen our resilience and to build a more sustainable europe and to develop the tools our union needs to be better equipped for the challenges that lie ahead. for this task, prime minister janša, you can count on me and on the commission, and in this spirit i once again welcome slovenia at the helm of our union. long live europe!
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i also want to start with history. tomorrow marks the 30th anniversary of the end of the so-called ten-day war with the signing of the brioni agreement under the political sponsorship of, what was still then, the european community. representatives from slovenia, croatia and yugoslavia signed a declaration to end hostilities and to set the scene for the future relationships between the countries. the slovenian war of independence was the painful and bloody birth of the slovenian republic as we know it today. in many other member states the memory of how the european union became the world’s most successful peace project and global anchor of stability and democracy is not so fresh. in slovenia it is. thirty years ago it was slovenia which benefited from europe’s political sponsorship. thirty years later slovenia is now in the political driver’s seat itself and the slovenian presidency now has the chance to continue building the common european house with the experience and knowledge from its rich but often also difficult history in the heart of europe. the four priorities chosen by the slovenian presidency prove that slovenia is ever about responsibility. striving for facilitating the eu’s recovery and reinforcing its resilience must be one of the top priorities. we must draw the consequences from the pandemic and its management as quickly as possible. health projects, strategic autonomy to socio-economic consequences of the covid pandemic for us as the epp the headline is jobs, jobs, jobs. we need economic growth in europe with digital and sustainable transition. for the fit for 55 package the slovenian presidency can be a first bridge builder to bring the eastern centre, eastern european countries and the western countries together. on the big data biomedicine, on the digital services we have a lot of legislation in front of us where we count on the slovenian presidency to make europe more resilient. the economic impact of the crisis – a eur 60 billion loss of economic growth and around 300 000 jobs – that is what we are talking about when we talk about jobs. i also want to thank the slovenian presidency for picking up the migration task. it’s not easy at all but parliament is ready for making compromises. we have a common understanding about how to solve it and the lithuanian development gives us a clear idea that the urgency is there. a decisive question is on the conference for the future of europe. we had a successful kick-off but now we have to fill the conference with concrete content. time is short and during the slovenian presidency we have 10 business panels, two conference panels and plenaries planned. that’s why we count a lot on the success during the slovenian presidency. it’s a presidency of listening to citizens in a way and then with the french presidency, we have to conclude. i am also happy that in all the speeches we heard for the moment, the rule of law was a key element. together we in the european parliament fought last year for implementing a binding rule of law mechanism. my party, the epp, was, and will always be, a strong defender of the rule of law principle. let me be very clear, any problem related to the rule of law is not an internal affair of a member state, it is not just a problem for the member state concerned, but a problem for all europeans. and even more importantly, the rule of law should be a self-evident political principle especially in view of our common european history. you know we have a lot of discussions going on on this subject. for me, one thing is clear and there, dear prime minister, i really ask you to help us, because the most urgent thing at this point is to make the european prosecutor operational as quickly as possible, so that they can start their work. that’s why this is an urgent demand to immediately nominate the slovenian representative on this. but there are other discussions about media freedom. some say we have a problem in slovenia and other countries, others say we have a very critical press in slovenia. then we have the judicial discussion. some say we have a formally independent judiciary, others say this is highly politicised. you know we had in the last days in denmark a vote on the asylum law there and that means practically that in denmark they are abolishing the right of asylum. just imagine for a second if such a vote were to take place in slovenia or in hungary. so, dear colleagues, what i want to say is that we have, with the rule of law, implemented the separation of powers. we are the legislator. we have the job of implementing the rule of law mechanism. but the assessment where the rule of law is under risk or not is then in the hand of the commission and of the courts in europe. and i really ask the commission vice-president jourová to speed things up. i do not want to see any further reports about let me say, we are concerned, we are considering, maybe there is a problem – i want to see now an acting commission, i want to see now a commissioner that gives us a proper answer on whether we have a problem in europe or not. and finally, the slovenian presidency is also looking to the western balkans. i like this very much and the epp is fully supporting this. let me close with a quote from the slovenian author žarko petan, who was born in ljubljana in 1929 and died in 2014. he said ‘the present is the state between the good old days and the more beautiful future.’ that is an extremely positive, optimistic spirit and this spirit is needed in europe. so srečno slovenija! srečno evropa!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, believe me when i say that i wish the slovenian presidency every success, because its success will be the success of the whole european union. i have no doubt that slovenia has the capacity and experience to do a great job, provided that you, mr janša, choose to work with this parliament, with the commission and with the fundamental principles of the union. this parliament is directly elected by the citizens. here you see representatives of very different political views, and we can only serve the citizens if we all make an effort to respect and listen to each other. only by reaching agreements, without ever renouncing the union's fundamental values, can we bring about the necessary laws or policies, such as the recovery plan, the reform of the common agricultural policy or the purchase of vaccines. the rule of law is a fundamental element in that cooperation. and let me tell you that it is not a good sign what happened last week at a meeting you had with the european commission to discuss the rule of law, a meeting that was used to attack the opposition in your country. you know that respect is fundamental to our task: respect for differences of opinion, so that we can move forward together in diversity - that is the only way to build europe - and respect for truth, protecting freedom of the press as an indispensable pillar of democracy. the six-month presidency of the union coincides with the 30th anniversary of slovenia's independence, which has been a model of transition in a country with great capacities and contributions to the common project. all the more reason why this parliament has a responsibility to ensure that this legacy is not lost. we will not only be vigilant with the rule of law, judicial independence and freedom of the press. we also have an obligation to ensure that european funds are used properly and that is why you should leave here today with the commitment to appoint a delegate for the european public prosecutor's office. you have warned of the problems in the delays of justice, for it is in your hands to be able to solve this issue. so don't wait until tomorrow to announce the appointment. do it today, right here, and it will give the slovenians and this house peace of mind. because what we want here is that no one is left behind, nowhere in europe. because we are in this together, the motto of the presidency is 'together, resilient, europe'. that's what we want. i agree with the statement of its priorities: recovery and resilience, strengthening the rule of law and european values. you're really committed to this? he'll be joining us on that road. the european socialists share the priority of advancing enlargement in the western balkans and hope that significant steps can be taken in this regard. but do not forget about immigration reform, which is urgent and must be solidarity, balanced and fair. and another priority is the future of europe: the conference on the future of europe - i welcome that. in september, the first citizens' panels will finally be organized and all voices must be heard. you have, by the way, spoken of how we can improve europe's voice abroad. i say to you: abolishing the rule of unanimity. mr janša, you have the opportunity to exercise leadership in the service not only of the two million slovenians, but of 500 million europeans. it's a big responsibility. do not waste it, for the good of your country and, above all, for the good of the union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, an ever—accelerating climate crisis, the deterioration of the rule of law in europe, a new turn in the pandemic with a very transmissible variant spreading: these are just some of the issues a new presidency will have to face, and it will be more than enough for any. but we are concerned about how willing the slovenian presidency is to take on those challenges. while we see unprecedented heatwaves and while the ocean is literally on fire, your presidency will be in a position to start the negotiations on the climate package. you have a historic chance to help upgrade the eu’s position from the recent insufficient climate targets and focus on a massive rollout of a green and socially just transition. in your presidency’s priorities, however – and you mentioned exactly that just now in your speech – not only is such an ambition lacking, but you are even giving credit to false solutions. on the rule of law, prime minister janša, you seem to have been following and taking a look into a course on illiberal democracy, and that is dangerous for the european values your presidency is claiming to uphold. smear campaigns and the intimidation of free media and civil society, and looking for scapegoats are not the acts we expect from a european government. you have said that your presidency’s number one priority is resilience and recovery, and i think we both agree that the key to achieve this is a good and targeted use of the common european funds dedicated to the recovery that we so dearly need. i am therefore wondering, as are colleagues, why slovenia is the only country in the entire european union that has not yet nominated its prosecutors to the european public prosecutor’s office. what is the message that you are sending by interfering with judicial nominations? you’ve just said how important judicial independence is. interfering with judicial nominations that are supposed to shed light on fraudulent use of public money in our union is rather strange to me with the rule of law being one of the priorities that you have set. the presidency is always a time when a country and its government are in the limelight. while a country as beautiful as slovenia always deserves to be the spot of attention, i do have some doubts about how you and your government will represent the eu in the next six months. but i hope that you will prove me, and us, wrong. we are very much looking forward to cooperating with you because a successful presidency is indeed a success for the whole european union, but it needs to be based on the common values and targets that we have all agreed and signed up to.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to president janša, although you are certainly an experienced politician, let me give you a little advice, you see this is the only parliament in democratic europe that denies institutional representation to minorities; it is the only parliament in democratic europe which is putting a health cord around certain parties just because they have different ideas. so, be sure not to give in to these instrumental attacks because no one can give lessons in democracy here. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council. he did a reflection on the pandemic, the pandemic was definitely a devastating time. you quoted an image of these wagons in a row, and this image comes from the town where i come from. we've suffered a lot, but if you look at the bright side, we found out through the pandemic that things in europe were not going well. you touched on the subject of the economy, and you mentioned that europe had invented the social market economy. but we have realized that this model may not work properly, if it is true, as the numbers show, that europe is the continent that has grown less in recent decades than our competitors, both already developed economies like the united states, and developing economies. a radical change is needed in the rules governing our model of socioeconomic development. he also spoke of industry, which is a very important subject. we have also seen that our model was not working, that we had outsourced too much, that we were too dependent on technologies developed by other countries, and we also appreciate and hope for great cooperation between your presidency and commissioner breton, who has put some good ideas into practice. but there is a problem and a contradiction, because you mentioned the semiconductor sector, but we cannot develop an industry or catch up with the technological gap we have with third countries in some sectors if we do not change our state aid rules and therefore a need for change which i hope is at the heart of your presidency and of this six months of policy. in conclusion, i would like to make one final wish. we know that we can count on you and despite the cold welcome that some have given you, i hope that this is indeed a successful semester and that beyond the individual factors it shows that there is an alternative to european cooperation which i consider better than the failed one we have seen in recent years. it is important to show that europe can be made good, that good european cooperation can be built with respect for our diversities and our traditions and above all with respect for our nations, which, whether we like it or not, remain the bulwark, the founding and fundamental nucleus of our democracies. thank you again and good luck.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president of the commission, mr prime minister janša, your presidency is taking off while the pandemic is not yet over, with a situation that is certainly improving, but our continent will still have to face very complex and important challenges in the coming months in order to finally emerge from this dramatic crisis. the euro-realism which i have heard in many of your speeches today can, i believe, be a good summary and a concrete opportunity for the europe of tomorrow to be guided by a spirit of solidarity and cooperation between the different states and peoples. cooperation and solidarity are often hampered by political prejudices, which undermine respect and fair treatment for all the countries of the european union. in this respect, we are reassured by his words and his approach to the union's fundamental values and principles, including the rule of law. and in this connection i think the controversy over the european public prosecutor's office is quite instrumental, both in terms of the timing and the manner in which it is being set up and, above all, in terms of the clarifications which you have repeatedly and abundantly indicated. the rule of law monitoring mechanism must operate in an objective and transparent manner respecting the equality of member states, not following the approach which is often highly politicized and which uses mechanisms agreed at eu level only to punish views which differ from those held by some political parties. all this, unfortunately, only fuels divisions, discord and mistrust between the states and peoples of europe. the main objective at this moment that we should all have is to ensure a stronger and more resilient europe. in contrast to the pandemic, strong and lasting economic recovery, the integrity of the internal market, commercial interests and strategic autonomy, but also security and defence of our borders to counter phenomena such as terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we say yes to environmental protection, but with the right balance between environmental sustainability and economic and social sustainability. it is also very positive, i want to stress, that you are focusing on dealing with illegal immigration and building a functioning asylum system. we welcome your particular attention to the western balkans, but in doing so we must not forget the additional importance of the eastern neighbourhood for ensuring peace and stability in europe. finally, this presidency is at the high point of the opening of the conference on the future of europe. your presidency will take a fundamental and decisive step forward on this subject. we only hope, without going into the details, that the conference on the future of europe will not be an occasion for exclusion, but an opportunity to include and take account of all legitimate differences of opinion in developing common views on solutions for the future of europe. i would like to conclude by reiterating that i appreciated the reference to dialogue, cooperation and equal treatment as essential conditions for improving the conditions, well-being and security of our citizens. we hope that this spirit will be the guiding force behind your actions as we look forward to a semester of important results. good work, guys.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am not going to deprive you of the pleasure of political debate, since the political right has shown you a great deal of respect in the debate, but you are known for fighting with the quill rather than the flower. your government is taking over the presidency of the council at a difficult time for the eu. the eu is still grappling with the pandemic and its consequences. and unfortunately the presidency of the council is about to begin with a bang, the echo of insulting statements: one of the vice-presidents of the commission refuses to take a group picture. the next day, another vice president will walk you home. mrs von der leyen, sometimes i wonder what's going on in the berlaymont house. but, mr. janša, you have raised many issues. but let me talk to you about democracy first and foremost. i think that the slovenian public has a right to be informed by an independent journalistic source. and your refusal to fund the independent news agency is a political scandal. and even if you don't always like what's reported, you have to endure criticism as a politician. and while you may personally prefer twitter as a publicity tool, the independence of the media and freedom of the press, mr prime minister, are essential in a democracy. i also believe that the slovenian people have a right to an independent judiciary. the fact that your government portrays some of the country's female judges as politically biased says something about your own relationship to judicial independence. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states and the european union on the establishment of a european union police office. the work of an independent prosecutor's office, for example in the fight against corruption, strengthens confidence in the rule of law and in democratic politics. your refusal undermines that trust. i think democracy lives on the cultural debate. the humiliation of the democratic opposition leads to a degradation of political debate and culture. the united states under donald trump was not a model of democratic culture - quite the opposite: it is a warning to us. and the eu member states, and especially a council presidency in office, should not follow this path. i continue to believe that refugees have a right to protection in the eu and to respect for international law. this applies to slovenia as much as to any other member state. refugees are not welcomed with barbed wire fences and footsteps, but with compassion. in short, mr prime minister, i am delighted that slovenia is a member of the eu and that you are now holding the presidency of the council and that you have great challenges ahead of you. i doubt, however, that it could have become a member in the present domestic political situation. the european council has also set up a special committee to examine the situation in the balkans. you can strengthen european democracy or you can continue on your political course. then you will find in us critics who know how to fight with the sword.
mr president i welcome the slovenian presidency of the european council, prime minister jansa and the members. we have talked from my heart in many of the areas and we share a lot of things together as i am a hungarian mep. the pandemic has put europe to a number of tests, as you said. we must finally speak frankly about our common future, our common values and our common challenges, and we must have an open, honest dialogue, not only because of the diversity of our ways of life that strengthens the union's community, but also because mutual respect and equality cannot allow double standards to be the guiding principle of europe. thank you for bringing that to my attention. i welcome the objectives of the presidency, i am very interested in roma issues, i am one of the roma members of the european parliament and i represent a discriminated community. the numbers are unfortunately very tragic, especially in the shadow of covid, which is why i think it is very important that your presidency address the rule of law mechanism, national and ethnic minorities, the disadvantaged, the poor, especially the roma communities of europe, their protection, their security and our equal opportunities. rule of law very important. i'm asking that you coordinate national roma strategies better, because this semester is going to be very important. you have a great deal of knowledge about the integration of minority and ethnic groups, and i think that your task is great, the task of the presidency is great, grandiose, and i wish you a lot of strength for this!
the chairman of the council. - mr president! thank you so much for your words. the president of the european people's party political group, mr weber, reminded us all at the beginning that slovenia was still fighting for freedom and democracy thirty years ago and that it was exactly thirty years ago today that, with the help of the european union, the formation of that time, it was treated as an international entity for the first time at the brioni talks. i thank mr. webber for that reminder, but i would use it to make another comparison. when slovenia, 90 percent of the slovenians, voted for an independent state, and then when we declared that state six months later, there was no great understanding of our step. the european union at the time, say one week before the declaration of independence, granted yugoslavia 800 million ecus in concessional credit to keep yugoslavia together. they wanted yugoslavia to remain united and democratic, and we slovenians left yugoslavia because we knew that yugoslavia could not remain united in a democratic way. and then it took ten days for the world to change its mind and support us. and the brijuni talks were the first step that gave slovenians hope in europe, because when we were seceding, we were not seceding to be an island in the middle of the continent, but when we voted for an independent slovenia, we also voted for the future of europe. and support for the european union in slovenia is still among the highest in europe. so, i regret that here, in this debate, there were many bilateral issues open as regards the delegated prosecutors, slovenia has voluntarily joined the extended mechanism of the european public prosecutor's office, we are not withdrawing from it. there's been a complication with our internal legislation regarding the appointment of two delegated prosecutors. the minister of justice has resigned, we have a new minister, we are reviewing the procedure as far as the government is concerned, we can complete it by the autumn, we are not, but the government is not the only factor here, there is the council, the prosecutor's council, which has in its hands part of the procedure, and it is also up to them when the time will expire, but we will do our part. but i ask everyone that, once this body within the participating countries is complete, we should then ask our colleagues from denmark, ireland, sweden, poland and hungary to join us, because otherwise it would be very untrustworthy to say that in one country european funds are protected and their use is controlled, but in countries where they do not participate at all, what then? so, the same standards should apply here. we supported this instrument, we will participate in it. it is in the interest of all of us that the investment of european, as well as national, public funds should be as transparent and as efficient as possible, and that there should be as few dilemmas as possible, otherwise the trust in our common instruments, as the president of the commission has said, will also be destroyed. everything you've said here is part of a discussion that i think we need to have, even if we don't agree. the representatives of the political groups in this european parliament are elected by their constituents, just as we are elected by our constituents in the national parliaments, representing interests. europe is all that you have represented. i personally belong to a particular political group, i have my own beliefs and values, but in this capacity, when slovenia holds the presidency of the council of the european union, all your positions are legitimate, the same, they are part of the democratic process on the basis of which you were elected to this parliament. when we slovenians fought for the first time to be able to vote freely, then 90 percent of the people had no idea what the difference was between christian, liberal, social democracy, between conservatives, liberals. we only knew the difference between free elections and a one-party system. and it is in the nature of man, it is in the nature of man, that we have different values and that we compete with this, and we want all voices to be heard in the debate on the future of europe, only on this basis can we find common paths forward. thank you for all your contributions in this regard.
the honourable president sassoli, the honourable president von der leyen, the honourable prime minister janez janša. first of all, my sincere congratulations to my country slovenia for 30 years, for everything you have experienced, survived and existed on this path to independence. slovenia holds the presidency of the european union with ambitious goals and a programme at a time when we want to hear from europeans what the european union of the future should look like. we slovenians have always been able to make the right decisions about the future, which is why we have an independent state. we want freedom in the broadest sense and the rule of law for all. we want cooperation and we want respect. the slovak government has shown over the past year that it can and will do so. it has put the country among the countries with very good forecasts and very good results by taking effective measures during the crisis. just as the government is committed to working for slovenia, the slovenian presidency is determined to help the european union achieve the economic, social, health, environmental, digital and all other goals that are still ahead of us. it is also essential to recognise that the european union has no future if it is governed by a system of votes and exclusions, and that we are a union of peoples with different histories and different perspectives on the future. mr president, i hope that with your experience and wisdom you will help to strengthen cooperation, that with your perseverance you will encourage us to overcome our differences and that with your dedication you will seek what unites us. good luck with your second term, which i have no doubt you and your entire team will do with distinction. good luck to you, slovenia. good luck with the european union.
mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the government of slovenia. in the european union and in this building, slovenia has written success stories for the last 17 years. we meps from slovenia have promoted exemplary slovenian projects and profound slovenian people. with pride. i would like to see that same pride in this room today. and the criticism of my country grows more and more. slovenia's reputation has been damaged by the current government and many of you are questioning our values and european orientation. my dear colleagues, i want to tell you that the actions and words of our president or individual ministers are not always the actions and attitudes of all our people. opinion polls are clear: the vast majority of slovenians today do not support the direction our country is heading. they don't support the often disrespectful rhetoric, the arrogance, the cynicism. they don't support imitating the hungarian or polish prime minister, pressuring the media, the prosecution, independent institutions. they don't support self-determination, arbitrary decision-making beyond the laws and the constitution or sometimes collusion with the far right. they will not allow the character of slovenian society to be changed in this way. that's why slovenia is burning today. the demonstrations outside parliament today reflect this sad political climate. people are not letting themselves be silenced, and they are demanding change. they want a chance to prove that we slovenians are a responsible, mature and self-confident nation. i hope that my presidency will be an opportunity to restore this prestige and pride to the country, to the people, to all those who are fighting for respect for european values and norms in the months ahead. that slovenia will receive international attention at the end of the presidency in the style of our exceptional pogačari and basketball players, led by dončić, who these days delight the world with top sporting feats. therefore, i call on you, mr. prime minister, to return slovenia to the path of good, modern, open, friendly and decent countries for the sake of the growth of democracy, for the sake of each individual and the well-being of the whole society. to the heart of a healthy europe, where we belong. among critical, hardworking and free-thinking people, because that's what we slovenians are.
mr president, let me congratulate the slovenian people for the 30th anniversary of its independence, but let me also recall that there are still other european countries struggling to vote on our independence, struggling to exercise our right to self—determination, as you did 30 years ago. let me also hope that during your presidency, you can show that small, performing nations like slovenia can take the helm in an efficient and constructive way. but in this crucial moment for the recovery of our economies and societies and for building a more resilient and cohesive union, the last thing the eu needs is more division on fundamental values, entertaining conspiracy theories, or siding with those who put at stake the very values on which our union is based, and which by no means are imaginary. we cannot and we will not accept either double standards or relativism when it comes to fundamental rights.
madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, slovenia has just taken over the presidency of the council of the european union for six months. in my opinion, the fact that it is a small country is not a problem, because every state must be respected. i particularly welcome his courageous stand against the european policy of relocating migrants. i agree with his first priority, which is to make europe more resilient to crises, including health crises. we need to relocate the production of the most essential vaccines and medicines to europe so that we never again experience the dependence on china that we experienced during the covid-19 pandemic. i note its second priority, which is to complete the work of the conference on the future of europe. unfortunately, i have no illusions about their outcome. we will be entitled to a new federalist offensive that president macron will be happy to celebrate in the spring of 2022, unless marine le pen wins the french presidential election and rings the alarm of the nations, which i deeply hope.
madam president, for those of us who defend the role of the emerging states in the construction of europe, slovenia has been an inescapable reference of a democratic, non-violent and successful process since its independence in december 1991. we who, like the basques, aspire to have our own state in europe, believe that independence is the best way to achieve social justice for all our citizens. today i must say with frustration that, thirty years later, slovenia has embarked on a dangerous path towards autocracy through xenophobic and anti-european speeches and practices, attacks on the rule of law and the separation of powers, the elimination of fundamental rights under the pretext of the pandemic, control of the media, a police state and the persecution of legal political parties, as we also know in the basque country. his anti-migration policy against the right of asylum and hot returns would shame all slovenians who found a new life in the united states or argentina fleeing political repression and hunger. we are only asking you to protect human rights and civil and political rights in slovenia and to restore to your country the international prestige of a people who achieved freedom thirty years ago, mr janša.
madam president, president janša, i wish slovenia every success. it will not be an easy presidency, there are many challenges ahead. together with the european union, the german presidency successfully completed the vaccine for the pandemic; the portuguese presidency managed to have 70% of the european population immunized; and now we have the challenge of rebuilding and recovering everything that covid-19 has destroyed socially and economically. the slovenian presidency must ensure that recovery funds are distributed in a transparent, fair and proportionate manner among all regions. those funds are owned by europeans. let us avoid using them in a discriminatory way, let us avoid friendships and corrupt them. the aim of this presidency must also be to protect and promote the rule of law in europe. populism and nationalism always take advantage of moments of crisis to attack. the pandemic has strained the seams of our liberal democracies extraordinarily. the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of the press are fundamental principles of the european union. in some cases, as in my own country, ruled by the socialist party, we watch in amazement as the boundaries of the separation of powers are crossed, the judiciary is questioned and extrajudicial privileges are granted in exchange for political support. we must be clear that in spain, as in every corner of europe, guaranteeing equality and unity is inexorably linked to defending and strengthening the rule of law. without it, without the rule of law, neither equality nor freedom can be guaranteed. and harmony and coexistence are not possible without justice.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner vălean, i am pleased that we can finally approve the new connecting europe facility for 2021-2027. it has been months of hard work, of hard negotiations, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the good result achieved. the next cef will continue to drive investment in sustainable infrastructure and the decarbonisation of transport, creating european added value and strengthening the union's socio-economic and territorial cohesion. the european green deal calls for more sustainable, smart and resilient mobility, and we have made this new cef meet these needs and be strongly green, by allocating 60% of the budget to projects that support the union's climate objectives and by prioritising more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail, inland waterways and motorways of the sea. transport funding over the next seven years will help improve the mobility of europeans, making it safer, more innovative and accessible to all, including passengers with reduced mobility. it will also promote multimodality by strengthening connectivity with ports and airports. at the same time, it will also improve the efficiency of rail freight transport, with particular emphasis on urban nodes, bottlenecks, outstanding links and cross-border projects. as you can imagine, this agreement represents an opportunity to advance the development of the transeuropean networks and corridors, such as the atlantic and mediterranean, which run through spain, and an important socioeconomic boost for our regions, such as my own 'aragon', with the passage of the cantabrian-mediterranean corridor. the agreement on the 'smart tens', which we also approved in this house, will help to speed up the implementation of the network by bringing greater clarity and simplicity to the authorisation and public procurement procedures, which are particularly important for crossborder projects. this will provide legal certainty for developers and will therefore also be an essential mechanism for attracting private investment. the new cef will also focus on synergies between the transport, energy and digital sectors, promoting more efficient cross-sectoral effort in areas such as connected and automated mobility and alternative fuels, and benefiting all european citizens.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is now three years since the violent repression that has brought nicaragua into a deep political, social and economic crisis, which is still unresolved and which all indications are that it may get worse. throughout this crisis, the european union has taken a gradual approach, seeking spaces for dialogue and cooperation with the nicaraguan authorities, but also adopting pressure measures. in october 2019, the council of the european union approved a sanctions framework, reiterating our strong condemnation of the crackdown since april 2018; a framework of targeted sanctions for individuals and entities for human rights violations and acts of repression against democratic opposition. it was first applied in may 2020 and has been extended until october 2021 because it will likely have to be used again. as i was saying, nicaragua has entered a repressive spiral; it is heading towards presidential and parliamentary elections in less than five months. we have recently seen the adoption of a biased and partial electoral reform, as well as restrictive laws that are completely incompatible with an electoral process that meets democratic guarantees. the arrests of opposition leaders, of prominent opposition leaders, are systematic. i have here the list of those imprisoned, ranging from potential presidential candidates to historic sandinista leaders, businessmen and journalists, illustrating the scale of this latest wave of repression. a wave that does not cease, because, to speak in terms of strictly current events, perhaps you do not yet know that tonight the night from monday to tuesday five prominent leaders and social activists have been arrested: student leader lesther alemán, who in may 2018 publicly challenged ortega to resign in a televised exchange, and max jerez, president of the student movement, have been arrested at his home, and three peasant leaders, including a presidential candidate, medardo mairena, and another, freddy navas, who had already been arrested in 2018, have also been arrested tonight. and at this time, after midnight, their fate is still unknown. i am told that there is a rather macabre joke in nicaragua: they ask why they are being detained at midnight and say that because of the time difference, the members of the european parliament can find out about it at breakfast time. well, i'm helping to get us to know. breakfast time is over, but these new arrests are part of our debate here in strasbourg and clearly indicate that ortega has chosen a confrontational course. it is also necessary to consider that these arrests - i have informed you of the latest ones - are supplemented by the cancellation of the legal personality of political parties, investigations and continuous attacks against civil organizations, the harassment of journalists, the confiscation of media: a clear image of repression and authoritarianism, which ortega accompanies with an aggressive rhetoric and a closed rejection of all efforts at dialogue, also - i would almost say - especially with the european union. on 10 june i issued a statement on behalf of the 27 member states in which we again strongly condemned the repressive actions of the nicaraguan government, called for the repeal of laws restricting fundamental rights and called for the release of all political prisoners. i do not need to repeat it again, because it is already a mantra, that for us the democratic way is the only possible way out of the political, economic and social crisis in which nicaragua is immersed. recently our head of delegation in managua and the ambassadors of the member states met with the nicaraguan foreign minister, but it was clear from that meeting that the government has no intention of abandoning its intransigence. and that is why, together with the member states, we are evaluating the various instruments at our disposal, starting certainly with new sanctions. and in this sense, this debate should serve to enable you to make your proposals. what is clear is that ortega feels confident enough to arrest the most popular opposition leaders without further street demonstrations, probably because he has spread a climate of fear and frustration. and it seems that, since he started his vendetta in 2018, eliminating the competitors for the november 7 elections is one of his goals. it is therefore very important that we formulate a response, based - as i said - on the will to dialogue, but also on political pressure through all the instruments at our disposal. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we have to discuss today. we have to discuss what more we can do after what we have already done, and i will be able to summarize that later, after hearing your arguments. but, of course, the repressive dynamic and the dynamic absolutely contrary to any attempt to hold elections that deserve this name seem to be the class mark of the ortega-murillo government. there is no way to conceive of these elections as anything like a political competition that deserves to be considered as such. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate will serve as a basis for the council to take the decisions it deems appropriate.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr high representative, we are deeply concerned about the situation of total helplessness in which the nicaraguans find themselves. the repression, persecution, harassment, attacks and murders have increased alarmingly in recent months as the upcoming presidential elections approach. today the ortega government holds more than 120 political prisoners, among them cristiana chamorro, arturo cruz, félix madariaga, juan sebastián chamorro, miguel mora and, finally, medardo mairena, who was arrested yesterday along with other social leaders and student leaders. all of them, incidentally, presidential candidates. what is ortega afraid of? the answer is very simple: freedom and democracy in your country. that is why they have radicalized repression by disguising it as the legality of aberrant laws. they have turned the november elections into a farce to keep themselves in power permanently against the will of the nicaraguan people. this is not interference in internal affairs. ortega has to meet his fundamental international obligations. europe must take immediate action in the face of this clear violation of human rights and not allow this escalation. the european union must punish the perpetrators of these crimes, which have so far gone unpunished, starting with daniel ortega himself and his wife, rosario murillo.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr high representative, democracy is dying in nicaragua. the government of ortega and murillo continues to turn a blind eye to the repression in the central american country. during the last few weeks, more than 125 people have been arbitrarily detained: social leaders, businessmen, human rights defenders and up to six presidential candidates. the unacceptable authoritarian drift that the country is suffering puts it on the edge of the abyss and at the doorstep of elections that will not be democratic and will lack any kind of legitimacy. it must be remembered that all this - what the country is suffering, this authoritarian and repressive wave - is not a symptom of ortega's strength; it is precisely a symptom of ortega's weakness. the european parliament therefore calls for an end to the campaign of terror; for the release and proof of life of those detained; for the continuing extension of the sanctions regime, including those responsible on the eu's individual sanctions list, and for a genuine electoral reform to be put on the horizon, allowing for competitive elections and respect for the country's political pluralism. we continue to insist that only democracy and dialogue will be able to break the deadlock in the country, and that will require involving the actors in the region, using diplomacy. finally, i would like to thank the eeas and its delegation in managua for the work they have done in defence of this dialogue and democracy in nicaragua.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, how many tyrants can one achieve in a lifetime? asked the writer gioconda belli in a verse. unfortunately, in the lives of nicaraguans, there are several tyrants. ortega has created the worst imaginable scenario, which we are in today. i won't quote the detainees. all the presidential candidates, over three hundred killed since 2018, over 120 political prisoners before june. we really need to send a clear message. dialogue, yes, but we must strengthen the sanctions. and this is a message for the council as well. six sanctioned high officials are too few for the impunity and suffering that exists in nicaragua. that's why ortega says he's used to everything, to being called everything. but i think what he's not used to, like all dictators, is us taking down the veneer of economic corruption that underpins his authoritarian regime. and so i think we have a wide margin. let us strongly sanction ortega, murillo and that family conglomerate that has turned nicaragua into a family business where there is only suffering, repression and injustice.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am deeply concerned about what is happening in nicaragua. with the arrest of presidential candidates and opposition leaders, continuous persecution of journalists and civil society and an electoral reform that does not live up to democratic parameters, president daniel ortega continues to lead the country away from a peaceful and democratic solution to a serious political crisis in nicaragua. it is evident that all this clearly hampers any possibility for a free and fair election in november. with the debate today and the resolution we will adopt this week, the european parliament should send a strong signal to ortega’s government. we need to call on ortega to cease the repression against the opposition, human rights defenders, civil society and journalists, to immediately release all political prisoners, to repeal the restrictive laws, to restore citizens’ rights and to adopt electoral reforms that guarantee transparent, free and fair elections according to international standards. we should also call on the council to expand the list of targeted sanctions and ask the commission to trigger the democratic clause of the association agreement with regard to the trade part, while ensuring that no sanction or any other measure could harm the nicaraguan people. the eu should continue to work with the international community to promote dialogue, democracy and human rights in nicaragua and increase its support to civil society and human rights defenders’ work. we should also call on member states to facilitate the issuing of emergency visas and provide temporary shelter to those who might seek a peaceful place outside their country. european companies operating in nicaragua must ensure strict due diligence throughout their supply chain to ensure human rights are respected. finally, our full support should be with the nicaraguan people so they can ensure their right to freely choose their government and live freely without repression and human rights abuses.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, some people are now getting their hands dirty with the atrocities and arrests that are taking place in nicaragua, but the truth is that it was coming for a long time, because the regime headed by daniel ortega has followed the same script as venezuela. we are coming to power through elections, dragged by left-wing forces all over the world, including those in europe, and from there democracy is being systematically dismantled, with enabling laws that empty constitutional guarantees of all content. and now ortega is arresting, one after another, the leaders of the opposition, from cristiana chamorro to the last, lesther alemán, and four others, to make it clear that the november elections will be only a farce for their continuity. that happened in venezuela and that's happening in nicaragua. and it can only happen because they have the support and intervention of the one who always acts in this sinister totalitarian clan of the são paulo forum, which is cuba; yes, cuba, that criminal dictatorship subsidized by the european union and protected by the high representative, josep borrell, is also in nicaragua. ortega is not a martian who has come to power in this country; he is a socialist who has been propped up by socialists and communists all over america and europe. and above all, he is a protege of cuba and the são paulo forum, with close ties to the spanish government and also to the party of mr josep borrell the spanish socialist workers' party. cuba is a dictatorship that subsidizes and protects this european union in an unprecedented way. we are talking about condemning a dictatorship here, when we know that all those who help this dictatorship - many of them - are receiving millions of euros from the european union. and i'm talking about havana right now. less hypocrisy, more sanctions on nicaragua, of course, more sanctions on venezuela, but sanctions and very serious sanctions on cuba as well, mr borrell.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, mr borrell, i would like to sincerely believe that this debate is prompted by concern about the unlawful persecution of the opposition by some governments. but i don't think he is. i don't believe it because i have reasons not to. in colombia, opposition leaders are not only being persecuted, they are being killed. and this european parliament has said nothing. the same thing that has said nothing or applauded when it has been dismissed via impeachment to president lugo in paraguay, to president zelaya in honduras or to president dilma in brazil. we sincerely believe that this is due to persecution, once again, by one of the alba countries, because the alba countries maintain a type of integration or promote or promote a type of regional integration which does not coincide with what we would like or with what this parliament would like. i think this parliament should sincerely care, really care, about democracy, care about the sovereignty of the peoples, support democratic processes and recognize, even if the majority of parliament does not like it, when there are legitimate elections in which a legitimate president is elected, as is mr maduro in venezuela, instead of supporting puppets who proclaim themselves. then we'd gain a lot of credibility, and we could trust that you're concerned about this and have us on your side. you would have us on your side because we are certainly not going to support persecution of dissidents, we are not going to support persecution of opponents, and we are going to support democratic processes wherever they occur, even if we do not like the results.
madam president, the harassment of dissidents in nicaragua is unacceptable, and it is very sad to see how those who claim to be the heirs of a revolution which in 1979 generated so much hope in latin america, in europe, in the whole world, today embody the exact opposite of what that revolution symbolized. the european union must demand that the nicaraguan government release the presidential candidates, the many activists and journalists who have been detained since last june, that the right to protest be allowed and that genuinely free elections be held in november. if daniel ortega refuses, the council should extend the sanctions against him and other senior figures in the nicaraguan government. however, when the union demands all this from ortega, he replies quote: have we asked the europeans to release the political prisoners they have in europe? it doesn't occur to us to go and ask for their release because it's their internal situation. and he says this in reference to the catalan independence leaders who were being retaliated against by the spanish state. russia, turkey, nicaragua: once again, mr borrell, the european union's silence on the human rights violations in catalonia is being used by authoritarian regimes to deny the legitimacy of the european union in its defence of democracy and the rule of law. follow the example of the council of europe, please. the union's silence on what is happening in catalonia is costing us dearly.
madam president, mr high representative, with the presidential elections coming up in november, the situation in nicaragua has become untenable. we have already said: political opponents deprived of their liberty in a totally arbitrary manner, harassment of the independent media, the adoption of increasingly restrictive and anti-democratic laws, torture in prisons. ortega's regime is clinging to power cruelly. it's time to be sharp and clear. ortega and his vice-president and wife murillo have to meet the demands that have been demanded by the opposition and practically the entire international community. the solution to the crisis requires dialogue and open negotiation with the opposition. the release of political prisoners is necessary, as is an end to the repression of the press. the outcome of the november elections cannot be recognised by the european union unless the rights of the opposition and the transparency of the process are guaranteed by measures such as the independence of the electoral council and the presence of neutral observers. i would ask the institutions of the union, and in particular the european external action service, to pay constant attention to the events in nicaragua in the coming months. i think that the list of people to be sanctioned should be extended to include political leaders. i also believe that, as this house requested last october, the application of the so-called democratic clause of the association agreement should be studied in such a way as not to cause any damage to the nicaraguan people. we want for our nicaraguan brothers the same basic rights and principles as we europeans: freedom, respect for human rights, the rule of law and prosperity. and from here, from this house, we must also contribute to that.
madam president, mr borrell, nine months ago i warned in this very house that neither ortega nor murillo had any intention of negotiating; that their only objective was simply to entrench themselves in power. it has been almost a year and what we feared has been transformed into a new reality, and what ortega has done is directly launch a total offensive against the people of nicaragua. and every day, in addition, we wake up to new arrests of new opposition leaders, journalists, or simply members of civil society. mr borrell, i ask you: what is the european union waiting for in order to react? what are you waiting for yourself to react? what good would it do the nicaraguans to have sanctions applied in november if this electoral fraud has already been committed? and that is why, mr borrell, i repeat to you, i repeat to you, all that i have been demanding of you for the last year: effective sanctions against ortega and murillo and his entire criminal gang, the release of political prisoners, the non-recognition of electoral fraud and, finally, the immediate activation of the democratic clause of the association agreement. nicaragua is going to become a new venezuela. and all of that we've already warned you about. and simply one of the top officials, in case of inaction, will be our top representative. so we ask you to take immediate action for the freedom of nicaragua.
madam president, mr borrell, there is no revolution left in nicaragua, and there is hardly any democracy left. all that remains are betrayed ideals and an increasingly authoritarian regime that spreads fear and repression to ensure its survival in power and, of course, the economic benefits that go with it. the last strategy is to blow up the november elections by stopping candidates so that nothing and no one endangers ortega-murillo's third reelection. nothing that was not foreseeable seeing the dictatorial drift of the last few years. the repression of the 2018 student uprising left more than three hundred dead, thousands of exiles, hundreds of political prisoners, and, after the failure of the peace dialogues, tailor-made laws were introduced to reduce the space of civil society, alter electoral norms, intimidate, persecute the opposition, historical sandinistas, journalists, businessmen and activists. in the face of this escalation of repression, the european union must react with new sanctions and agree with neighbouring countries on a more forceful and committed strategy in favour of democracy, dialogue and human rights in nicaragua.
madam president, since the outbreak of protests in 2018, the popular mobilization has demanded the release of political prisoners and guarantees for the respect of civil and political rights. in response, daniel ortega has only built an institutional structure that legitimizes repression, the criminalization of protest and the arbitrary detention of critical voices in the face of this authoritarian escalation. two weeks ago, dora maría tellez, hugo torres, víctor hugo tinoco, ana margarita vijil, suyén barahona and tamara dávila rivas were arrested, the latter from the autonomous women's movement, against which ortega has been especially angry. to this day, no one has been able to see them, not family members or lawyers. we demand that they be allowed to see them, that they be allowed to visit them immediately. we also demand an end to the repression and the release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience and that their physical and moral integrity be guaranteed. the so-called anti-imperialist rhetoric is not fooling anyone. there is nothing left of the sandinista project in the nicaraguan government. we are therefore in full solidarity with the popular demands of the nicaraguan people.
madam president, i would like to underline what so many colleagues have already said this afternoon, that we as the european parliament should condemn in the strongest possible terms the ongoing systematic detention and arrest of opposition leaders, as well as the repression of journalists, students, indigenous people and human rights defenders in the great country of nicaragua. the latest developments are yet another step away from achieving a peaceful and democratic solution to the political, economic and social crisis in that country. i call upon the nicaraguan government to make immediate changes to the electoral law in accordance with the international parameters demanded by the organization of american states. i call upon the nicaraguan government to guarantee transparent, free and fair elections in accordance with international standards. and i call on the nicaraguan government to release, immediately and unconditionally, all arbitrarily detained political prisoners, among them the pre—presidential candidate and the opposition leaders. dear josep borrell, the council should quickly enlarge the list of sanctions against individuals and entities and include president ortega, vice—president murillo and their inner circle.
madam president, mr. high representative, the nicaraguans are suffering a lot. they are watching as the few rights they have left are being taken away as their country becomes a pure and simple dictatorship. journalists, opposition politicians, activists, you name it. their families fear for their freedom. nicaragua is becoming a venezuela, a country under a brutal regime where more than five million people have already emigrated. and this same tragedy could soon happen in nicaragua. but there's a difference. unlike venezuela, the european union does have an association agreement with nicaragua. we must use this tool to put pressure on the regime. the european union must suspend the agreement with nicaragua now. until president ortega ends the repression and calls for free democratic elections. we can't just sit on the sidelines.
madam president, mr high representative, cristiana chamorro, arturo cruz, félix madariaga, juan sebastián chamorro, miguel mora and, since last night, medardo mairena; six are already the pre-candidates for the presidency of nicaragua, imprisoned by the satrap ortega; six people who have been denied access to their lawyers and who are prevented from having their families visit them to bring them food and foodstuffs to prison. they are the faces of a drama of enormous dimensions. we are talking about 108 000 nicaraguans who have been forced to flee their country and at least 124 political prisoners. we are talking about a dictator who has institutionalized repression and who intends to establish a ministry of truth and eliminate the free press. and ortega is now seeking a fraudulent fourth term after 25 years of oppression. europe cannot remain passive. that is why i join my colleagues today in calling for new sanctions, for new and increased pressure against the regime, until nicaraguans can demonstrate freely and democratically.
madam president, mr high representative, in the last few weeks we have witnessed a wave of blatant repression in nicaragua. we hadn't seen anything like this in latin america since the 1970s. mr ortega, mrs murillo, how is it that you have ended up establishing a regime of terror very similar to the one you yourself fought against? how can it be that, in the face of an opposition that has always been peaceful, the government's response has been repression? already 108,000 nicaraguans have fled their country. there are at least 130 political prisoners, 27 of them arbitrarily detained in recent weeks and whose whereabouts are unknown. and there were over 300 dead and 2,000 injured in the crackdown of the 2018 protests. the european union will always stand with the nicaraguans and with respect for human rights. we demand the unconditional release of all political prisoners. in addition, it is urgent that the government give proof of life of the 27 people arrested in this last month. we don't know where they are or how they are found, and this is unacceptable and inhumane. enough of the repression in nicaragua, mr ortega.
i am glad that you are here, because you are a politician and can therefore give an answer in your second speech to what we are saying here, which is something that i regret that it does not always happen. i will speak to you in the background of what is called the 'offer of a positive agenda' by the council to turkey, and i would like to thank the enormous sympathy that exists between the groups in this house, because everyone has understood that it is not a question of supporting or not supporting the particular political agenda of the hdp, but their right to defend it, their right to express it peacefully and their right to participate in elections and ask for electoral support and to defend the institutions. however, as part of a determined policy of dismantling all the checks and balances of the political system, the idea and goal is to end any critical bubbles in turkish public life, both in civil society and in institutions; institutions already reduced to a minimum by an authoritarian interpretation of the presidential system. the mass suspension of parliamentary immunities is a line of attack. the use of the prosecutor's office and the courts is the second, for the simple political criticism. the leader of the main opposition party has an indictment, with a request for four years in prison, for saying "the alleged president" to refer to mr. erdoğan. the strategy against the hdp is a bit more elaborate, always with the extensive coverage of anti-terrorism legislation: banning the party and outlawing it and disqualifying almost 500 leaders of that party to prevent it from being refounded, as it has happened in the past, and to do so close to an election. it is unfair and it is undemocratic - yes, mr borrell - and it is a serious political mistake. as you and i, who are spanish, know from our historical experience, keeping people who decided to abandon a violent path in institutions is key to resolving the conflict. keeping the hdp in the institutional game is key to overcoming the kurdish conflict in a democratic and definitive way. but in the meantime, mr borrell, we have to defend their right to act as such parties and that must be part of the framework of the so-called 'positive agenda' offered by the council to turkey.
madam president, what do hybrid threats, new threats, have in common, such as state driven disinformation campaigns, cybersabotage, election interference, economic coercion or large-scale intellectual property theft? what is it they have in common? well, they are foreign policy objectives of both the russian and also often the chinese state. their calculus of such operations is still low risk, low cost and high reward. countering exactly that calculus, is at the centre of the current thinking in the european parliament. but, that is only possible through an adequate response mechanism. so after a cyberdiplomacy toolbox – which i fully support – and a 5g toolbox, we believe it is time for a fully-fledged counter hybrid toolbox. part of that toolbox must be that not only the injured state can respond, but also non-injured member states. collective countermeasures, acting in solidarity, will actually influence that russian and chinese calculus.
madam president, what a festival of hypocrisy again in the european parliament. we have this discussion, madam president and mr high representative, if you have a moment, about foreign interference and we can hear again another accusation against poland, against hungary, from liberals and from the left. it’s the same thing which happened in america when mr trump was accused of russian collusion. the whole world knows that this is not true. the whole world knows that was fake news, there was no collusion and now poland and hungary are called putin’s friends. at the same time, liberals and the left who are accusing us, are inviting those who are financed by post-soviet states, and recently arrested in poland, mr k – his name has to be withheld from the polish media according to polish privacy law. he had been arrested because he was the one who is accused of money laundering and he was the one who was the representative of open dialogue foundation invited to the european parliament by liberals. so if we do not want these kind of accusations and discussions, please do not invite people like mr k, who is from the open dialogue foundation.
madam president, mr high representative, in a relatively short time we have become aware of the challenge of disinformation, but we have also become aware of the limited means available to the european union to deal with this problem. all the points raised by parliament are therefore relevant and relevant, both the definition of the mandate of stratcom and the adequacy of its resources and the more effective coordination between the administrative structures. but we forgot about the sanctions. the commission had the courage and the wisdom to name the countries which are the source of the most aggressive disinformation strategies. well, we'll have to go that way. it is not just a matter of detecting, denouncing, neutralizing, attributing. we also need to take the step and speak the language of sanctions to actors, state or non-state, who use such strategies to destabilize democracy and poison political debate. it's not about defining the truth, it's about pointing out what's a lie. and while we know that there can be difficulties in attribution, we should not be naive to think that in china, russia or iran there are non-state actors who are free to operate. the european union must therefore draw the line on this reality, expose its responsibilities and use the language of sanctions, which must be part of the union's means.
madam president, we are talking, mr borrell, about interference in democratic processes, and there is no democratic process more important than elections. that is why my proposal to this committee and to you is that the risks of interference in elections, in elections in the broad sense: in the electoral process, must be individualised and specifically dealt with. because of its transcendence and also because of the existence of greater vulnerability. many citizens connect with politics during election time, disconnect and reconnect, and at that time they are much more vulnerable, with a greater appetite for political information and with a greater exposure to that misinformation. the aim of these interferences - we have said this many times - is not to change the voting figures. that's very difficult. it's delegitimizing the electoral process itself. the only figure that interests those who interfere in elections is the figure of a growing abstention, because it will serve them to delegitimize mature democracies. and that is why, mr borrell, the way we observe elections must also change. before and after a vote, there are new risks to electoral integrity, and that is why we need to study them and come up with new ways to defend ourselves in elections against these foreign interferences.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the fight against human rights violations must be a priority of european policy, inside and outside europe; not a secondary element, but an essential pillar of our policy as a shared project. every day we are witnessing the increase in repression with people killed, tortured, ill-treated, the persecution of human rights defenders, of women's rights, of the lgbtq community, of the environment, of migrants, but also of people who are deprived of a proper standard of living, of well-being, of health, of housing. let's not forget that it's a human right too. we welcome this initiative on tools to curb rights violations, but we need such a tool to ensure its end. for that we need more transparency, we need coherence with other mechanisms and we need it to count, as protagonists, on the people who suffer most and on civil society, to be able to denounce it. it must not be used as a tool for other interests, as we live here every day. there are already mechanisms in place today, such as the suspension of trade, free trade and association agreements, the promotion of binding instruments on business and human rights within the framework of the united nations, or the end of shameful agreements with turkey and morocco or the actions - as we are seeing - of the libyan coast guard, paid for with european funds. so we applaud and welcome initiatives of this kind, but what we need here today is the firm political will to carry them out.
madam president, i agree with the other members' satisfaction assessments. i agree with some of the demands of this parliament made by david mcallister, maria arena and other members. and i recognize the limitations of the high representative in acting in this context, where unanimity is still needed and sometimes it becomes a simple veto. i would like to speak about the coherence of the mechanism. consistency with other sanction mechanisms, so that it is not only chosen for human rights issues, avoiding other types of sanctions. consistency with national policies, and this is very important: it cannot be that the face of sanctions is the face of mr borrell and that under the table the states are pursuing a policy of making up with some government which the european union has sanctioned. and consistency in objectives: similar human rights situations must have similar sanctioning treatment, unless we want to make a system of sanctions on human rights except when our commercial interests oblige us otherwise. so coherence is needed to ensure that the mechanism, even with these current limitations, works in the way that this parliament wants it to.
madam president, we in the committee on development are working on a report on corruption and human rights in international cooperation. that is why i wanted to add a few lines to the debate. the aim must be to target individuals and companies without punishing countries and their people. to change things, ladies and gentlemen of the council, we must target the money abused abroad. so, speak the language of power through sanctions. with the approved regulations, the so-called magnitsky or navalny law, assets could be frozen and visas denied to individuals, entities, without punishing countries. the high representative made that promise in this house and he delivered on it in december last year. but to apply it, we need to include it as an instrument in foreign policy; and include corruption. interestingly, this offence is not part of the european sanctions regime, but the similarities with us legislation would allow for much more effective coordination with the biden presidency in washington. we need to strengthen the role of the european parliament with a monitoring phase and complementarity with other sanctions, such as geographical ones. it should be reiterated, ladies and gentlemen of the council, that we are calling for a qualified majority to facilitate the decision on sanctions. this and corporate due diligence are effective tools for working together to ensure human rights, as global actors that we are.
before we continue the debate, i should like to announce the start of the second round of voting today. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 7.30 p.m. to 8.45 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods and all votes shall be cast by roll-call. i therefore declare the second round of voting open. members may vote until 8.45 p.m. the results of this second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
we are resuming the debate on the council and commission statements on the situation in tigray, ethiopia (2021/2778 (rsp)).
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the terrible situation in tigray is making the civilian population again the victim of the absence of international rules, with sexual violence, displacement, hunger, deaths; a situation which has also led to the death of eleven humanitarian workers, including the spanish medecins sans frontieres maría hernández, along with her two ethiopian colleagues, just a few weeks ago. today i want to send a big hug to family and friends from here. murders that have been roundly condemned. but is that enough? the murders of humanitarian personnel are on the rise. and then there's the silent death of people whose only crime was being in the middle of a war without rules. a black hole for international law. it's not enough to condemn. we need action. we need a follow-up for the investigation and trial of the murderers of maría hernández and her companions. we need to get some work done on the ground. the best policy for the horn of africa is to work with local and regional entities to be able to guarantee human rights in tigray, in ethiopia and in the rest of the countries in the area.
mr president just two years after prime minister abiy was awarded the nobel peace prize, the ethiopian government launched an armed operation in tigray that has, as we have already mentioned, claimed 2,500 civilian lives so far. every day new reports come to light of the atrocities committed by ethiopian and eritrean soldiers. the hardships of the population were compounded by the fact that humanitarian organizations were unable to reach tigray for months. we must say that the military action of the addis ababa government has caused a humanitarian catastrophe. but the biggest threat now is food shortages. two million people are hungry, it's been mentioned here, five million people, 90 percent of the population, are in need of humanitarian assistance. the armed conflict and the unilateral decisions taken by ethiopia in the context of the renaissance ghetto, without reaching an agreement with sudan and egypt, threaten the stability of the whole region. the ceasefire announced by the ethiopian government is a very limited but very important opportunity to respond. all obstacles to the delivery of aid must be removed. it is in europe's fundamental interest to act swiftly and effectively. the conflict must be prevented from escalating further and all bilateral contacts, including those at the un, must be used to bring the opposing sides to the negotiating table. do you see any concrete opportunities for european action, joint action, to help the peace process?
mr president, with great concern and sadness, we follow the ongoing tragic events in tigray and elsewhere in ethiopia. the situation in tigray has seriously escalated, but the crimes against human rights are happening in other regions and towards different ethnicities. our first and foremost priority is to help civilians who have no access to medical assistance, are dying of famine and are often victims of sexual violence. furthermore, the exclusion of tigray from general elections and communication disruptions makes this horrible situation even worse. we need to do everything to support a ceasefire that all would respect. that way, they can ensure that the humanitarian aid is delivered on the ground to the ones in need urgently. we also need concrete eu measures, including an arms embargo and targeted sanctions against all perpetrators. tigray is without doubt one of the urgent, if not the most pressing, humanitarian situations we should work on to the full extent of our capabilities and powers.
mr president, since the beginning of the conflict in the tigray region of ethiopia eight months ago, more than 400 000 people have now been plunged into famine and more than one and a half million people are at risk of famine. it is one of the worst humanitarian crises in the region in the last decade. you both said it, both in the council and in the commission: the first priority is of course respect for the ceasefire, access to humanitarian aid for all those at risk and the protection of civilians. but in the medium term, the european union, the african union and the entire international community will have to support all efforts for an inclusive dialogue between all communities in this country and also ensure that external military forces leave this country. the solution, as we know, cannot be military, but the perpetrators of serious human rights violations must be prosecuted if we want to have reconciliation, because there is no reconciliation in impunity.
mr president, i am also very worried about the ongoing situation in ethiopia. the fresh start we expected with the election has turned into a nightmare. a few days ago, i spoke with the representatives of various tigrayan communities and i received extremely worrying information concerning human rights. the ethiopian government is extensively cracking down on civilians throughout the country. this is the reason why i would not focus only on tigray, but i would rather highlight the situation regarding the whole of ethiopia, where several human rights violations have been reported, including arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture, executions and forced displacements. ethiopia needs to see an inclusive national dialogue with all communities, political parties and wider civil society. the commitment and the fundamental role of the european union lies in humanitarian aid and in promoting inter—regional dialogue and the restoration of security. let’s act right away!
mr president, finally, after eight months of hostilities, the tigray people’s liberation front is willing to accept a ceasefire proposed by the ethiopian authorities. i encourage this move towards a peaceful future and call on both sides to find an agreement on the conditions of the ceasefire via diplomatic means. the violent actions need to stop as soon as possible for the good of the ethiopian people. the atrocities have deteriorated the humanitarian situation in tigray. more than 400 000 people are estimated to live in famine and another 1.8 million are on the brink of it. that’s a shame. a shame for civilisation. a shame for us today, because we all remember ethiopia in the eighties and the great famine, and history is repeating itself with us helpless and watching it. coordinating actions of humanitarian support is of crucial importance at this moment. i welcome the clear commitment of the european commission to support ethiopian citizens and to prevent further humanitarian catastrophes. however, aid workers still face difficulties in reaching out to the people in need. the parties in the conflict should facilitate the access of aid to all parts of tigray and provide assistance according to the principles of international law. and we have instruments: we just voted ndici. we voted this huge amount of money, that’s the only weapon that we can use nowadays. stop cooperating with people who don’t want to cooperate with us and save further loss of life.
mr president, commissioner, minister, the tigray conflict is a painful and sad moment in contemporary history in which hunger is being used as a weapon of war and the lives of thousands of people are being put at risk. the situation on the ground is very unstable, access to food, energy or the internet is extremely limited and the armed conflict has generated numerous human rights violations, massacres, violations, thousands of wounded, dead, displaced or refugees. the international community must act urgently and stop treating this matter as an internal matter of the ethiopian state. this is a serious regional conflict, with eritrean troops participating alongside government troops, with severe implications for civil society. the electoral process of 21 june, which was important in the construction of the democratic process, did not pave the way for the pacification of the present situation, nor did it open the way for the urgent humanitarian response. it is therefore urgent to forge international diplomatic bridges capable of bringing the two sides to the table and finding a peaceful solution to this conflict. the ethiopian prime minister, who won the nobel peace prize for his contribution to the solution of the conflict with eritrea, now has a golden opportunity to be considered, once again, in his own home, the peacemaker and not the warlord.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the conflict in the tigray region has taken a brutal toll on the civilian population. according to reports by international human rights organizations, there have been mass killings of civilians, human rights violations, acts of violence against the civilian population, including rape. in addition, the conflict has led to the mass displacement of up to 1.7 million people in the tigray region, a region completely cut off from communications, the internet, and a huge humanitarian crisis. according to the un, as many as 5.5 million people are in need of food, and as many as 10 percent of children are severely malnourished. at the same time, the delivery of aid to the region is hampered not only by the lack of electricity, telecommunications and access to fuel, but also by road closures and transportation. we must strongly urge the ethiopian authorities to enable and facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid to the tigray region and other areas in need of support. it is also very important to investigate all killings and human rights violations, including cases of excessive use of force against civilians.
president, if the european union is to be a global actor and to have credibility in its own policies, it must urgently take stronger action in tigray, in front of the local population and against those responsible for the war crimes and crimes against humanity that have been and are still being committed there. the unilaterally declared ceasefire seems to me to be more of a military, tactical calculation than a step towards lasting peace or a solution to the humanitarian crisis. the international community can no longer remain aloof from what is happening in tigray. first of all, i am looking at the united nations and the european union, which, because of its belief in the multilateral approach to regional conflicts and humanitarian crises, can play a leading role within the un. i therefore urge the council to show more decisiveness and to take real decisions. the humanitarian crisis must be addressed immediately, but the international community must also invest in ending the conflict, in restoring stability and rebuilding the destroyed society, and in an international investigation and a proper prosecution of the crimes committed against the population.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like sincerely to thank honourable members for this debate. i took note with great interest of the comments that were made during the discussion. as we have heard, the humanitarian situation in tigray continues to deteriorate at an alarming pace. in spite of the recent unilateral ceasefire by the ethiopian authorities, access issues and protection risks remain, and they remain widespread throughout the tigray province. for us, the absolute priority right now is to ensure the protection of civilians and to provide significant humanitarian aid to reach all those who need it. in these famine conditions, the last thing we can afford is the situation of siege that we are witnessing. we are witnessing a situation where humanitarian supplies and humanitarian personnel face parties to the conflict who are blocking roads and destroying bridges, vital bridges. so we must continue to call on all parties to respect international humanitarian law, to facilitate access for humanitarian aid, and to commit to an immediate, indefinite and negotiated ceasefire arrangement, which will be necessary to end all violence for good and to restore stability in the tigray region and beyond. and yes, the european union is ready to contribute even more in both directions, on the humanitarian front as well as to contribute to the efforts to find a political solution. as far as the humanitarian front is concerned, we are ready to activate our european union humanitarian air bridge service to reach the tigray region, but for that we will need the agreement of the ethiopian government. on the political front, we have been working all along, since the beginning of this crisis, with like—minded countries such as the united states and the gulf countries, and in particular with the african union, and we’re trying to push for political solutions. we have also been working through our eu special representative for the horn of africa, and the new one is to visit the region in the coming days. finally, as you know, the high representative has appointed a special envoy, who has visited ethiopia and the region several times, and is working incessantly to find a way towards a political solution to this conflict. once again, let me thank you for this debate. we have learnt very useful views that will help us chart the way forward.
the chairman of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union will do its utmost to contribute to ending the conflict and human suffering and to creating a lasting solution. the situation is very sensitive, unstable and uncertain. at this stage, it is difficult to establish reliable channels of communication with the main actors on the ground in terms of consolidating the ceasefire, assuming responsibility in the field of human rights and establishing dialogue between the parties to the conflict. ethiopia is our strategic partner in fighting for regional peace and for international discussions such as climate change. recently, on 10 june, we met in political dialogue at the level of deputy foreign minister, which shows that we can work together despite our differences. we are determined to take action against the many abuses and violations of human rights and to find out who is responsible for them. whoever did this must be punished. as i mentioned in the opening debate, we have tabled a resolution on this in the human rights council. we are in contact with the office of the high commissioner for human rights and advocate for support and unhindered access for a joint fact-finding mission to find the perpetrators and hold them accountable. as i have already said, we will discuss this situation with the foreign ministers and the high representative at the council next week, to which i will also convey the content of today's debate. thank you again for the discussion today.
the debate is closed. the agenda for the debate will continue at 8.30 p.m. with statements by the council and the commission on the 70th anniversary of the geneva convention (2021/2779 (rsp)). (the sitting was suspended at 8.00 p.m.)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the 70th anniversary of the geneva convention (2021/2779 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that there will be one round of speeches by the political groups in this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, 2021 marks the 70th anniversary of the refugee convention, a global instrument that has assisted millions of displaced persons over many decades. in the context of continuing wars, conflict, human rights violations, persecution and record levels of displacement, the geneva convention continues to protect the rights and lives of refugees, and it is as relevant today as it was in 1951. at the end of 2020, the number of displaced persons worldwide reached a record of 82.3 million, including 26.4 million refugees and 48 million internally displaced persons, in addition to an estimated 4.2 million stateless persons. multilateral and multi-stakeholder action is thus more essential than ever to ensure protection for the displaced and to realise a sustainable solution. the standards set forth in the 1951 convention with all later versions were profoundly tested by the covid-19 crisis that also affected international protection and solidarity. the pandemic spared no country or region and disproportionately affected populations which were already vulnerable. refugees and displaced persons are among those most adversely affected by the crisis. the only way to help them and to effectively address global challenges is through a global response and international solidarity. a renewed commitment to the principles enshrined in the 1951 convention is crucial. the eu remains the leading donor in humanitarian and development assistance. moreover, the eu supports and will continue to support capacity-building in partner countries, strengthening asylum and reception capacities and providing protection to those in need. while doing so, we must not forget that only a truly collaborative approach can make a difference and help us establish clear and workable methods, while ensuring necessary solidarity. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, we celebrate today the signing 70 years ago – 70 years ago this very month – of the refugee convention, a legally binding commitment made by the countries of the world to help millions of european refugees – victims of nazi and communist tyranny; survivors of persecution, mass murder and genocide; their homes destroyed, their possessions stolen; uprooted and adrift in a continent shattered by six years of brutal war. the parties to the convention, members of the united nations, promised to support european refugees with practical aid and treat refugees like their own citizens, without discrimination. they voted to uphold the right to housing, the right to education, the right to work, to freedom of religion and other fundamental rights. above all, the principle of non-refoulement, the cornerstone of the convention, the commandment not to put refugees back in harm’s way, not to turn people fleeing terror, oppression, persecution straight back into the hands of their persecutors as happened so often with such tragic deadly consequence in the years before world war two. ever since 1951, the convention has been a beacon to guide refugees towards safe haven, from hungary in 1956, czechoslovakia in 1968, vietnam in the 1970s, the balkan wars in the 1990s, from syria, somalia, afghanistan today. in all those years the convention’s scope has increased, as has the power to inspire. at the same time, the right to asylum is under pressure. the convention remains as important as ever. today, i would like to think about my friend kati piri, who was until recently a member of this house and now represents her voters in the dutch parliament. her father fled hungary in 1956. he could raise his daughter in freedom, and i just say: thank goodness for the convention. thank goodness that no one pushed him back across the border and that no one at that time said, ‘let’s process his application on another continent’. there is another treaty we remember this year. seventy years ago six european countries signed the treaty of paris creating the european pact on coal and steel, laying the foundations for our union, resolving to replace a bloody conflict on the battlefield by negotiations at the conference table. we now have 76 years of peace in europe. because we have peace, refugees are no longer leaving europe. because we have peace, democracy and freedom refugees are now coming to europe. worldwide, 80 million people have fled their homes and developing countries host more than 86% of all refugees. the convention was once a global answer to a european catastrophe. today, we must give a european answer to a global emergency. we can and must do more. i want us to commemorate the convention by taking action through our funds. the eu is the leading humanitarian aid donor. we support people in more than 80 countries. last year the eu used almost its entire eur 900 million humanitarian aid budget to help refugees, displaced persons and host communities. the commission supports turkey as one of the largest refugee-hosting countries in the world, with nearly 3.7 million refugees. i want to commemorate the convention by action, by making progress on the new pact on migration and asylum. that’s the only way to make sure refugees can fully enjoy their rights under the convention. step by step, we are advancing on the pact, as we did last month with a political agreement on the blue card and as we did last week with a political agreement on the eu asylum agency. and i call on you all today to commemorate by action and make progress on the union resettlement framework. we must move from ad hoc support to a stable system of resettlement. this will be another important step to deliver the pact. i want us to commemorate the convention by stepping up on resettlement. since 2015, member states have granted 2.5 million people protection who came to europe on their own initiative, often after dangerous journeys. and at the same time, europe gave more than 80 000 people a new home through resettlement. last year, just over 10 000 refugees came to europe in this safe and orderly way, impressive in covid conditions but a 60% drop all the same. i want more people to be able to come to europe safely so fewer people feel the need to risk their lives on dangerous journeys. i want us to get back to pre-pandemic levels and beyond. the global need is high. this friday i will host a high-level forum on resettlement. i will call on member states to increase their pledges. i’m very grateful for the support and participation of this house in the forum and the participation of ministers from italy and finland, two countries that are very active on resettlement and community sponsorship. we can only make a difference if we join forces worldwide. that is why, for the very first time, i’ve brought together key international partners on resettlement. at this first unprecedented forum un high commissioner for refugees filippo grandi, canadian minister of immigration marco mendicino, and us secretary for homeland security alejandro mayorkas. at the joint eu-us justice and home affairs meeting last month, secretary mayorkas told us the us is back. the time is right to show democratic leadership and to give many more refugees a safe route to a welcome home. the convention is at the heart of our union. it’s part of our history. it’s part of the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. it’s part of who we are. i call on you in this house: let’s celebrate the convention in words today, and by action tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the 21st century will be historic because of its great challenges and threats. on the one hand, the covid-19 pandemic has caused great havoc, but on the other, climate change, totalitarian regimes, conflicts, economic and social inequality, insecurity, poverty and corruption of multiple governments are all provoking huge migratory flows. migration can be understood as a challenge, but also as an opportunity, both for the receiving societies and for those who emigrate. and so has history. according to the iom, some 281 million people live in a country other than their own. according to the unhcr, there are nearly 83 million forcibly displaced persons because of conflict and human rights violations. today we mark the 70th anniversary of the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees, a treaty that sets the parameters of international protection for those who have been forced to leave their country because their lives were in danger. for them, being a refugee was not a choice, it was an imperative. i speak with propriety when i say that i have seen the bitterest face of forced migration, that of more than five million venezuelans who, like many other peoples, have been forced to take desperate paths outside their borders due to inhuman dictatorships. the member states of the union have an international responsibility towards refugees, but the european union also has a moral responsibility towards the countries of origin to bring them closer to democracy and to accompany them in that process, and also to punish those who commit crimes against their populations. crimes against our humanity.
madam president, allow me to begin by congratulating my colleague, tanja fajon, on the successful outcome of the negotiations on these reports, which are indispensable in supporting people in need of international protection. but the situation in the mediterranean, commissioner, is getting worse. the deaths this year have tripled and we still have no plan to deal with the increase in arrivals, which we know happens every year. in the meantime, the epp group in this house seems to be held hostage to the far-right discourse. gentlemen of the far right, i'm looking at you. they have just published a declaration on the future of europe, which they say is based on christian values. well, let's see what the pope has to say about christian values, shall we? some authority i say you will have in the matter. he says that migration is not a threat to christianity, that to reject an immigrant in distress, of whatever religious confession, is a grotesque falsification of christianity. i conclude with a quote from the gospel. jesus said: "i was a stranger and you welcomed me".
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, since the summer of 2015, when europe experienced an unprecedented humanitarian and political crisis, we have witnessed a systemic lack of solidarity towards forced migrants. we have suffered the absence of a narrative that fights exclusionary discourses. in this context, strengthening integration policies is essential. in many cases it is the regional authorities who are responsible for implementing these policies and, while we welcome the increase in the budget for the amif, we regret that the regulation only provides for a minimum allocation of 20% for the fund's solidarity objective and an allocation of 5% for local and regional authorities. it is clearer than ever that europe's challenges can only be tackled from a multi-level perspective, in which all actors, including local and regional authorities and civil society, contribute to building a stronger and more united europe.
mr president, every european knows that a homosexual is more comfortable walking the streets of budapest or warsaw than those of molenbeek, gaza or tehran. but you'd rather submit to the lobby's agenda and spend all day ranting about hungary or poland. how dare they lecture hungary or poland on democracy? how dare they lecture on the rule of law and human rights to those who have fought and defeated the most brutal and well-known totalitarian movement in europe, which is communism? it is precisely you, the people behind the cordon sanitaire, who threaten to cut off european funds to anyone who does not submit to your ideological straitjacket. how can a maltese socialist sentenced to two years in prison for distributing homosexual pornography of his ex-partner speak about gay rights in hungary? with you it's always the world upside down. but they don't scare us. the wave of patriotism and common sense sweeping europe is here to stay. the founders of the union are turning in their graves to see what they are doing with their project, with the ideological dictatorship which uses the community institutions not to serve the member states, as the treaties require, but to threaten them, harass them and give them orders. they look desperate. we're sticking with common sense.
mr president, commissioner, minister, last saturday a young man from galicia, samuel, was beaten to death. that same night in my town, san cugat, another young man was beaten unconscious. both attacks were carried out to the cry of "gay!" the escalation of violence against the lgbtq community is an emergency that we must fight without palliatives. and that means fighting all those movements, organizations and governments across europe that normalize persecution and stigmatize people for their way of wanting or thinking. the law passed in the hungarian parliament is an example of the institutionalization of this reactionary drift, as is the fact that political parties in this house, such as vox, point to the workplace of the editor of the satirical magazine el jueves, thus inciting violence against him. they point to others to act. the far right always works against freedom to the cry of "go for them!" or "gay!" but we assure you, again, that they will not pass.
in writing. article 7 teu aims to ensure that all eu countries respect the common values of the union, as set out in article 2 teu, including the rule of law. the european parliament has always been very active in addressing the challenges related to the rule of law in the eu, in particular by adopting resolutions initiating the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure with regard to both countries. since then, and particularly in the wake of the deterioration of the situation with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in both countries, parliament has continued to call on the council to act under the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure; it is a crucial matter to ensure respect for the values of the european union and, above all, respect for the rule of law.
in writing. article 7 teu aims to ensure that all eu countries respect the common values of the union, as set out in article 2 teu, including the rule of law. the european parliament has always been very active in addressing the challenges related to the rule of law in the eu, in particular by adopting resolutions initiating the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure with regard to both countries. since then, and particularly in the wake of the deterioration of the situation with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in both countries, parliament has continued to call on the council to act under the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure; it is a crucial matter to ensure respect for the values of the european union and, above all, respect for the rule of law.
in writing. article 7 teu aims to ensure that all eu countries respect the common values of the union, as set out in article 2 teu, including the rule of law. the european parliament has always been very active in addressing the challenges related to the rule of law in the eu, in particular by adopting resolutions initiating the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure with regard to both countries. since then, and particularly in the wake of the deterioration of the situation with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in both countries, parliament has continued to call on the council to act under the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure; it is a crucial matter to ensure respect for the values of the european union and, above all, respect for the rule of law.
in writing. article 7 teu aims to ensure that all eu countries respect the common values of the union, as set out in article 2 teu, including the rule of law. the european parliament has always been very active in addressing the challenges related to the rule of law in the eu, in particular by adopting resolutions initiating the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure with regard to both countries. since then, and particularly in the wake of the deterioration of the situation with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in both countries, parliament has continued to call on the council to act under the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure; it is a crucial matter to ensure respect for the values of the european union and, above all, respect for the rule of law.
in writing. article 7 teu aims to ensure that all eu countries respect the common values of the union, as set out in article 2 teu, including the rule of law. the european parliament has always been very active in addressing the challenges related to the rule of law in the eu, in particular by adopting resolutions initiating the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure with regard to both countries. since then, and particularly in the wake of the deterioration of the situation with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in both countries, parliament has continued to call on the council to act under the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure; it is a crucial matter to ensure respect for the values of the european union and, above all, respect for the rule of law.
in writing. article 7 teu aims to ensure that all eu countries respect the common values of the union, as set out in article 2 teu, including the rule of law. the european parliament has always been very active in addressing the challenges related to the rule of law in the eu, in particular by adopting resolutions initiating the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure with regard to both countries. since then, and particularly in the wake of the deterioration of the situation with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in both countries, parliament has continued to call on the council to act under the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure; it is a crucial matter to ensure respect for the values of the european union and, above all, respect for the rule of law.
in writing. article 7 teu aims to ensure that all eu countries respect the common values of the union, as set out in article 2 teu, including the rule of law. the european parliament has always been very active in addressing the challenges related to the rule of law in the eu, in particular by adopting resolutions initiating the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure with regard to both countries. since then, and particularly in the wake of the deterioration of the situation with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in both countries, parliament has continued to call on the council to act under the abovementioned article 7 (1) teu procedure; it is a crucial matter to ensure respect for the values of the european union and, above all, respect for the rule of law.
in writing. hungary's new law goes against all the fundamental values of europe, including for example the protection of sexual minorities. no one should be discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation. all lgbtiq people should be able to be who they are in the eu, without fear of being marginalised or even personally attacked, anywhere in the eu. the european commission cannot only do more, it must do more. citizens must be able to count on europe to protect their rights. that's why the eu just came into being. i call on the european commission to take hungary to court and to guarantee the rights of lgbtiq people in hungary. but let's be honest at the same time. unfortunately, in practice, hungary has too often failed to apply the rule of law. it is time for the european commission to get its balls in the game. hit hungary where it undoubtedly hurts the most, in the wallet, and freeze hungary's share of the european recovery fund worth €7.2 billion.
in writing. – the overwhelming majority of the council members were outraged by the anti-lgbtiq law orbán introduced in hungary. rightfully so. orbán has crossed redlines before but that was a new low. i welcome the response by most heads of state and government but it should not stop here. the council needs to trigger article 7 against this hungarian government. all legal means should be applied in order to show orbán that he has gone too far. we are a union of values whether orbán likes it or not. he does not want to listen to reason, he therefore must face the consequences. the hungarian anti-lgbtiq law goes against everything the european union stands for. when you are a member of the eu, you sign up to our values. it is not an ‘a la carte’ menu. we need to stand up against the deteriorating situation of lgbtiq-rights in hungary. we have to take action and hold the hungarian government accountable. this is about protecting what is most precious, the freedom of our people.
in writing. the situation of sexual and gender minorities needs to be significantly improved throughout europe. changing the situation requires changes both in legislation and in attitudes. the first-ever strategy on lgbt equality published by the eu commission in november 2020 is a good step in the right direction, but the situation in hungary shows how far we still have to go to achieve tolerance and equality. in hungary, a law passed in june is effectively teaching children about discrimination and preventing organisations representing sexual and gender minorities from carrying out educational activities and communication in the country. such a restriction of minority rights and the trampling of human rights is in flagrant contradiction with the fundamental values of the european union. it is clear that the eu cannot finance activities that are contrary to its values, which include the essential values of equality, freedom of expression and the promotion of minority rights. the commission is now much more vigilant as it begins to implement the rule of law mechanism which allows eu funding to be withheld from a member state which is in breach of the union's fundamental values. the commission notes that the hungarian authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. we must also find ways of ensuring that human rights and fundamental values are better respected in all the member states in the conference on the future of europe, which is now under way.
in writing. the resolution, which concerns a law for the protection of minors that was democratically passed in hungary, has surreal aspects. the hungarian legislation is a matter of national competence and its main objective is the protection of minors and the possibility for parents to express an opinion on the sexual education of their children. however, brussels has once again decided to give an instrumental reading to the matter, meddling in purely national affairs and threatening to use every possible countermeasure, such as the freezing of european funds, to get hungary to turn around. this method of action, based on coercion and blackmail, is contrary to the basic democratic principles so often invoked by the institutions. i think it is a serious matter that a member state is continually subjected to controls on matters of national importance simply because it does not align itself with the prevailing opinion in brussels. the attitude of the european institutions is in complete contradiction with the principle of cooperation on which the eu was founded. in the light of what has been said so far, i consider it unacceptable that the only parliament in europe which systematically denies institutional representation to the opposition and attacks those who do not conform to the dogmas imposed by the current majority should try to dictate the line to some member states on democracy.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much, honourable members of the european parliament and all of those who are on the speaker list. we know each other very well from our very good cooperation in preparation of the last commission work programme. so it’s really a pleasure for me to discuss the preparation for 2022 commission work programme with you today, because close collaboration with the european parliament is a key aspect of a successful preparation of our annual priorities. i would like to mention, with your permission today, in particular three elements of it: the structured dialogues between the commissioners and the parliamentary committees; the close cooperation of our institutions under article 225 resolutions prepared by many of the committees; and the annual summer report by the conference of committee chairs that provides valuable input to our preparations for the annual work programme. honourable members, the 2021 commission work programme focuses on initiatives to overcome the covid-19 crisis, kick our recovery into gear and plan the future we want for our union. it marks a clear shift from strategy to delivery and has a focus on future proof solutions across all policy areas, supported by strategic foresight. a big share of the announced initiatives have already been put forward, and important deliverables will follow in the course of the year. major initiatives we will propose still before the summer break, and they include the 2021 annual rule of law report and the big fit for 55 package. the letter will contain a number of legislative proposals that will be key to implementing the ambition of the new 2030 climate target to cut, by at least 55%, carbon emissions compared with 1990 levels. after the summer break, in autumn, important initiatives that the commission will put forward includes the data act and policy programme on europe’s digital decade, the sustainable products policy initiative, including a revision of the ecodesign directive, together with an initiative on empowering the consumer for the green transition and circular electronics; the new european health emergency preparedness and response authority, hera; an action plan for the social economy, and the legal migration package accompanied by the revision of the schengen border code. you are also well aware that further important work beyond the commission work programme initiatives is ongoing. we have, for example, the recovery and resilient strength. the adoption of the national recovery and resilience plan is well underway, allowing the swift implementation that will deliver benefits to the citizens and businesses alike. i would like to thank the european parliament for its central role in agreeing on the next generation eu and allowing it to get off the ground with unparalleled speed. honourable members focusing beyond this year, we need to bear in mind that the year 2022 marks the mid-term of the current mandate. our collective focus will need to be on delivering the outstanding legislative commitments set forth in the political guidelines of president von der leyen. this will allow sufficient time for co-legislators to find agreement on these files before the end of the mandate. at the same time, we will continue our joint work on the recovery process. therefore, the next commission work programme should set forth a limited number of new initiatives focusing on delivering on the remaining political commitments under this mandate. for the 2022 commission work programme, managing the exit from the pandemic and working on a recovery are likely to remain centre stage, and we will make sure that we turn this crisis into an opportunity to achieve a fairer, greener and more digital society. honourable members, the full implementation of the ‘one-in, one-out’ approach will also begin with the next year’s commission work programme. this involves offsetting new burdens resulting from the commission’s legislative proposals by equivalently reducing existing burdens in the same policy area. this new approach gives particular significance to annex 2 of the 2022 commission work programme on refit initiatives. in the preparation of next year’s work programme, we are paying close attention from the early planning stages to whether the envisaged measures are likely to add burdens or not, and for which stakeholders. let me also say two words about foresight. our annual strategic foresight report, set to be adopted in september, focuses on the eu’s capacity and freedom to act in an increasingly multipolar and contested global order. as eu institutions, we must ensure that we develop policies that are robust and future-proof. policy makers and institutions have to be prepared to anticipate changes to proactively shape the future according to the eu’s political priorities. this is where foresight comes in. the commission recently launched an eu foresight network with ‘ministers for the future’ from each member state, and i am very much counting on the active role of the european parliament too in this exercise. i am looking forward to your views on our priorities for the next year and to continuing our fruitful cooperation in the legislative planning.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to express my thanks to the commission and the council for the work we have done together. we were working on all the instruments like the mff, like next generation eu, like the cohesion policy and the other elements, which will be based on solidarity and dedicated to a more resilient europe. as a representative of the epp, i don’t want just to say what we think about the european commission work programme, but i would just underline some of the elements we think as epp are the most important. what do we expect? we expect more resilience towards the foreign interference and the attacks against democratic values and our way of life and reinforcement in the fight against corruption and the rule of law. but when we speak about the priorities, the main strategic objectives, there are several we think are most important, but let me just describe it as one main element, which is recovery. recovery, because for us, there’s some elements which are the basis for the recovery. this is recovery and resilience, this is a question of the green deal but also digitalisation. all of them are the part of the main strategic goal, which is recovery. when we speak about economic recovery, we should be concentrating on developing a convincing exit strategy that moves from the more targeted support measures to eventual phasing out and to address the issue of how to deal with the high levels of government debt accumulated during the crisis, and coordination policy removing tax-related obstacles to the single market. when we speak about the green deal, we would like to underline the question of the reduction of administrative costs and the regulatory burden and principle in connection with environment policy. when we speak about digitalisation i think we should be concentrating on the question of education, administration, health and all the related challenges. so please, commissioner, take also our remarks to show that the programme of the commission is also dedicated and oriented towards the most important goals for the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, vice-president šefčovič, for your illustration of the commission's work programme, which contains many useful points. the work programme for 2022 will take us into the year that will mark the recovery of europe after the pandemic crisis and is particularly important because the measures we want to pass by the end of the legislature will have to be put on the table next year and there will be no more time to work on them. we would have liked, as the socialist and democratic group, to arrive today with a joint resolution from parliament to address the commission's work programme together, but unfortunately we have not found the other political groups willing to do so. we have our priorities, however. our group strongly supported the von der layen commission in 2019 calling for courage and vision for a more socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable europe. and today we can say that many of our requests have been taken into account. however, today we are in a very different situation. the pandemic has had profound impacts on our lifestyles socially, economically and culturally. we have put in place an extraordinary tool like the next generation eu to get our economies back on track, but we cannot have the goal of going back to square one. we need to take the transformations that were already happening in our society and that the pandemic has accelerated and put in place policies that can impose a profound change in our economic and social model. we therefore call on the commission to adopt a comprehensive antipoverty legislation, with ambitious and binding objectives in line with the european pillar of social rights and the porto declaration, if it is true, as it is true, that the pandemic has exacerbated social inequalities and increased the number of european citizens in extreme poverty. but we know very well how the social and economic dimensions go together, which is why we are calling for a wide-ranging reform of our economic governance system, which cannot be without a permanent fiscal capacity of the eurozone and the integration into the european semester of the un's sustainable development goals, the green deal and the social pillar. it is no longer possible to measure citizens' well-being by economic parameters alone, by gross domestic product alone, by the quality of the air we breathe, by the provision of social services in our cities, by the level of education. these are data which can no longer be ignored. we believe that the european union should be at the forefront of a global process of rewriting economic rules, which puts people at the centre and not numbers. in the environmental field, after the fit for climate package, we expect a biodiversity law which, similarly to what has been done with the climate law, sets clear and ambitious targets for the protection of nature. in recent days parliament has repeatedly addressed the issue of the rule of law. the commission's 2022 programme should include initiatives to achieve an effective european mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. finally, it is time to break the worrying deadlock on immigration and asylum applications, including a proposal for legal immigration and in particular for low-wage jobs. if this is the commission's programme of work, our group will continue to ensure cooperation in the interests of the citizens we represent.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. we are today under the impression of a new, terrible attack: after daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak, it is now investigative crime reporter peter de vries in the netherlands who is fighting for his life. this attack is an attack on the freedom of the press throughout europe. and what is particularly worrying is the fact that the alleged perpetrators from the organized crime milieu had no qualms about shooting peter de vries in the open in amsterdam. this feeling of security of organised and crossborder crime is due to the inadequacy of security policy within europe. the reason is the lack of cooperation between the authorities in the fight against money laundering and financial crime. we must finally combat crossborder crime across borders. we need a european criminal investigation office, a european fbi, to protect our citizens and the integrity of our internal market. the commission should make a proposal in its work programme. we must also protect our common values better. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we see restrictions on press freedom, on the judiciary, on the exclusion of minorities, and on governments with close ties to organized crime. but instead of firmly defending the european rule of law, instead of really showing their teeth, the eu commission and the member states are blocking and delaying effective measures such as the article 7 procedures, the rule of law mechanism and the strict prosecution of all infringement procedures in the area of the rule of law. this must come to an end, and that is why the enforcement of european law, especially as regards democracy, the rule of law and fundamental values, is part of the european commission's work programme. in 2022, we also need to shape europe's post-pandemic future. and the strategy for that already exists: the european green deal. at the same time, we see the world's forests burning. europe is still not on the 1.5 degree path even with this green deal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. because now is the time to do so. i therefore expect the commission to put forward a green deal in pure form in the interests of our economic competitiveness, our social rights and, above all, our responsibility to future generations. have courage! europe now has the chance to make history. make something of it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, when we are going to discuss the commission's work programme for 2022, we are told that the commission is having the temerity to suspend the recovery fund plan for hungary. in the past year, the pandemic has led many governments to act in an authoritarian, arbitrary and even illegal manner. there we have the spanish government, a socialist communist government, which has really broken all the rules and has been imposing perfectly illegal states of alarm, and continues with its coup to end the monarchy and democracy in spain. but you in the commission seem to be imitating this now, and we are heading towards absolute illegalities. no treaty states that the european commission or any other country has any competence over education in hungary. and here it seems to be about crushing all the other countries so that ideologically they have to go the same way as the social democratic, leftist and globalist majority. we're really seeing unusual things. you have every right to take your children wherever you want, but every country has its right. and the resolution that most of the groups in parliament are now trying to table is full of hate, which you attribute to others. it is a hateful resolution, made by a person with a history of hate and, moreover, perfectly incapable of making such a text. and that person is the one you gave that resolution to. it is hate, gentlemen.
mr president, commissioner reynders, since last thursday, 1 july, the citizens of the european union have had access to a tool that strengthens our union and consolidates many months of work, precisely to restore mobility in europe; a tool that is being born in this house; a tool called the 'covid certificate'. however, despite its implementation, we continue to suffer today from restrictions that complicate the life and movement of our citizens, especially now, in summer. a few weeks ago europe reopened its doors to the american market. but it's not the same on the other side. travel from europe to the united states has been blocked by the us administration for approximately fifteen months. i ask you, commissioner reynders, to continue to press for our diplomatic efforts to include mutual recognition of both certificates, because the united states is as much an ally of europe as europe is of the united states. and there is no justification for us to be in this situation of such disadvantage, especially in view of our efforts. we must therefore exert greater political pressure in this direction. that is why, commissioner reynders, with our whole group at your disposal, i encourage you to continue working, precisely in this sense of mutual collaboration between the united states and europe for the sake of that joint certificate that will enable us to operate.
in writing. on 1 july, the european union digital covid certificate regulation came into force with the aim of helping to restore freedom of movement within the eu, a right severely restricted after the declaration of the pandemic. from that date, member states should be prepared to issue and verify the physical or electronic document certifying that persons have been vaccinated, tested or have recovered from the disease. the regulation provides, however, for a period of six weeks in which member states may prepare to issue the certificates referred to in the regulation. twenty-one of them, as well as norway, iceland and liechtenstein, had already started issuing certificates before 1 july, and five more started doing so as from that date. however, according to the european commission's data of 1 july, six member states are still not prepared for its implementation (hungary, ireland, malta, the netherlands, romania and sweden), which will require redoubling efforts in this respect.
in writing. on 1 july, the european union digital covid certificate regulation came into force with the aim of helping to restore freedom of movement within the eu, a right severely restricted after the declaration of the pandemic. from that date, member states should be prepared to issue and verify the physical or electronic document certifying that persons have been vaccinated, tested or have recovered from the disease. the regulation provides, however, for a period of six weeks in which member states may prepare to issue the certificates referred to in the regulation. twenty-one of them, as well as norway, iceland and liechtenstein, had already started issuing certificates before 1 july, and five more started doing so as from that date. however, according to the european commission's data of 1 july, six member states are still not prepared for its implementation (hungary, ireland, malta, the netherlands, romania and sweden), which will require redoubling efforts in this respect.
in writing. on 1 july, the european union digital covid certificate regulation came into force with the aim of helping to restore freedom of movement within the eu, a right severely restricted after the declaration of the pandemic. from that date, member states should be prepared to issue and verify the physical or electronic document certifying that persons have been vaccinated, tested or have recovered from the disease. the regulation provides, however, for a period of six weeks in which member states may prepare to issue the certificates referred to in the regulation. twenty-one of them, as well as norway, iceland and liechtenstein, had already started issuing certificates before 1 july, and five more started doing so as from that date. however, according to the european commission's data of 1 july, six member states are still not prepared for its implementation (hungary, ireland, malta, the netherlands, romania and sweden), which will require redoubling efforts in this respect.
the rapporteur. madam president, allow me to begin by addressing my words to the european medicines agency and the commission, to mrs kyriakides for her cooperation and, of course, to the alternative rapporteurs, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks for the work they have done, for the always constructive tone and the willingness to reach agreement. we have not reached unanimity, but we have come close. our obligation to the citizens after what we have experienced in this pandemic is to achieve broad agreements to move towards a true european health policy, reinforcing fundamental structures such as the european medicines agency. while we celebrate the success of the vaccination campaign today, we must not forget the improvisation, the lack of coordination and the confusion experienced at the beginning of the pandemic. if there is one thing we cannot repeat again, it is the closure of borders, the banning of exports of medicines and medical supplies or the deafening of the call for help. i think we have corrected this with the important subsequent reaction, but we should not forget it, because it goes against the foundations of the european project and against the most basic principles of health crisis management, which normally go beyond borders. after years of so-called austerity, europe entered this crisis weakened by budget cuts and staff cuts in its health systems, and without the humility to admit that what was happening on the other side of the world would eventually strike this one with all its virulence. the truth is that we did not have a recognizable european health policy and we have seen how necessary it is to understand each other in the face of challenges of this calibre. the three health union regulations are clearly intended to be amended. a common and coordinated health crisis management system and strengthened mandates for both the ecdc and the european medicines agency. because we also need more europe in health. what does this reinforcement mean for the european medicines agency? an institutional framework defined by the medicines steering group, the health products steering group and the emergency working group, delimiting who does what at any given time. a framework for monitoring and controlling the supply chain of medicines. provide scientific advice on medicines that may have the potential to treat, prevent or diagnose the diseases causing these crises and define lists of critical medicines. coordinate follow-up studies on the efficacy and safety of vaccines. coordinate the clinical trials. and for the first time, a common definition of the shortage of medicines, so necessary and so demanded by this parliament. i have supported the commission's proposal and with the other alternative rapporteurs we have focused on reinforcing some aspects not adequately addressed in the commission's proposal, which has resulted in the agreement we are going to vote on. an agreement whose main principles are the reinforcement of the preventive nature of this regulation, providing that both the steering groups and the working group meet not only when there is an emergency but also in preparation for possible emergencies; the reinforcement of synergy between the steering groups and the working group; the introduction of the one health approach to address future challenges; greater transparency with the publication of agendas, minutes, internal operating rules and recommendations of these groups; a stronger role of healthcare professionals and patients consultation decisions; a sanction regime for marketing authorisation holders and manufacturers of healthcare products that do not comply with the obligations laid down in this regulation; public information on clinical trials and marketing authorisation decisions; and a crucial element, which i believe, of the european medicines supply database that we have introduced. if we are to deal with emergencies like the one we are facing, we need reliable, harmonized, coherent and timely information. the agency can never again receive the information it needs to process data in excel sheets. this is not acceptable. we need tools from this century, not repositories from the past. we need an interoperable and digital database at union level, but also based on data communicated through national electronic platforms, capable of monitoring the supply chain and determining the volume at any given time, as well as the actual level of demand, and providing data capable of detecting, predicting and preventing shortages of medicines. a database like cismed is already functioning in some countries with european funding. i believe it has also been funded by horizon europe. similar systems are already in place. we can and must put in place a system of this kind to tackle the problem of shortages. i hope that this parliament will not have to keep on asking us to find solutions to this problem. the european health union is not about who has the health competence or taking it away from anyone. it will strengthen europe's health response, because we know, we have seen: public health has a decisive influence on the health of the economy, of our society as well. let's not let the relief of a light at the end of the tunnel, of a possible way out of this pandemic, make us forget the lessons learned.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs. firstly, i welcome the fact that the request is being taken up again, the need for the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal for the protection and sustainable use of land. it is the third dossier in less than three months to cover this need, so, commissioner, the message from parliament is very clear. secondly, by 2025 there must be no more subsidies for fossil fuels and by 2027 subsidies that harm the environment must be eliminated. we should not do the same thing as in the seventh programme, which set the phase-out for 2020, but we never did. thirdly, there must be binding targets in relation to the reduction of the union's material and consumption footprint and the use of original raw materials. and finally, i welcome the fact that the text calls for a set of indicators that go beyond gdp by 30 june 2023. social progress has to take into account other parameters, such as health, a stable climate, a healthy environment, thriving ecosystems, and not just economic growth. let's move on, chief.
mr president, the european research area must be a solid framework for strengthening europe's scientific and technological capacity and consolidating a common area of research and innovation focused on excellence and geared to all talents and, of course, contributing to social well-being. and to do this, it will be vital, first, to improve the conditions for the development of research careers, especially those starting out, especially women and underrepresented groups; second, to encourage both the public and private sectors to invest more in european research; third, to reduce territorial inequalities or the gender gap; fourth, to increase cooperation between universities, research centres and industry; and fifth, to facilitate open science and improve the availability and standardisation of data. in short, it has to contribute to sustainable knowledge-based development and to the objectives of green transition and digital leadership, and support european social and economic recovery.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, thank you for your words and for your commitment. there is growing interest in the commercial exploitation of antarctica's resources, which are vital to the survival of our planet. the antarctic - mentioned here - is facing increasing pressure from marine pollution, climate change, ocean acidification, illegal and unregulated fishing, and also from rising ocean temperatures. it is noteworthy that in 2002 the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine living resources agreed to create a network of marine protected areas and that, despite the urgency, an agreement was not reached within the commission last year to establish two new marine protected areas in the weddell sea and east antarctica. the designation of new marine protected areas in antarctica should therefore be a priority for the european union and is a key objective both in the biodiversity strategy and in the international ocean governance agenda. there is also a growing international consensus among many countries -- it's been said here -- the united states, new zealand, australia, norway, the united kingdom. we must therefore overcome the political deadlock. and this resolution we are debating today is a necessary push from europe to have these areas finally designated. to do this, the european union must do what it always does: take the lead we have. the european union and the member states must intensify their bilateral and multilateral efforts, particularly with the countries that are against it. the commissioner has said it: russia and china - let us be clear - are the ones who are against it. and we also need to convince them to designate both areas this year, which would send a very strong political signal ahead of the cop15 in china to push forward ambitious biodiversity targets at the international level. let's get to it.
madam president, we are facing a new moment, a new economic narrative, a new fiscal era, and we cannot lose the opportunity to build a new europe, a new economic and social framework, and we urgently need it. in this new roadmap, social rights and equity must prevail in the design of macroeconomic policies and their short- and long-term effects must be taken into account. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. and to do that we must change the rules of economic and social governance, also following the conclusions of the porto summit. we are risking our future, our well-being and the consolidation of a european project of progress.
mr president, in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, i ask that the report be referred back to the committee responsible for initiating the interinstitutional negotiations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have the opportunity to divide the debate into two main chapters, in my view, on the subject we are discussing this morning. on the one hand, critical raw materials, necessary for the digital and green transition, such as rare earths, cobalt, lithium, on which there is a focus formulated by the european commission in its industrial strategy. the solution here is medium- to long-term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. in that case, we need immediate solutions. the treaties make it possible to identify some solutions and also the open dossiers we have on the table one of which you have rightly mentioned we are in the process of revising the regulation on shipments of waste, regulation (ec) no 1013/2006. the challenge is to stop seeing waste as waste and start seeing it as real raw material. we are a continent that transforms and that is a raw material for us. then our industrialists and entrepreneurs will not have to go through endless bureaucratic procedures in order to be able to move waste from one country to another in the european union. we must speed up the process, reduce the bureaucracy involved in the transfer of waste from one country to another and invest, as italy is doing massively, in recycling and recovery facilities. and then we can also afford to limit the export of waste, especially recyclable waste. the case of the steel scrap is emblematic. we are able, by converting, by using electric furnace technology instead of full-cycle in steel, to reuse our scrap very efficiently to make green steel. it is absurd to export it to turkey and then import steel from turkey. our industrial strategy takes account of these priorities.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! the prices of building materials have been showing a continuous upward trend for some time. in the case of poland, the prices of wood, in particular osb, styrene, aluminium and drywall, have increased particularly sharply. with regard to the price of wood, we are talking about a 40 percent increase, and the price of some materials has even doubled. this situation is the result of the impact of a number of factors, such as the imbalance of supply and demand on the market and the resulting shortages of building materials, as well as higher energy transport and labour costs. this situation has a very negative impact on both the manufacturers of construction companies and developers and consumers. for the undertakings, this causes enormous difficulties in planning production, delays and loss of predictability of production and costs, as well as the need for increases and a threat to the competitiveness of the undertakings. consumers, on the other hand, have to deal with significantly longer delivery times or lack of availability of selected materials and significantly higher costs for repairs, purchase of a house or apartment. because we have to remember that the cost of building materials is over 50% of the cost of any residential property. in addition, price increases and significant delays will have a very negative impact on investments under the cohesion policy or the reconstruction fund. i therefore believe that action is needed to counter this situation, including an in-depth analysis by the european commission of the causes of such price increases and possible recommendations on this matter.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this is a real and immediate issue for our businesses, particularly smes in the european union, so it’s really important that we have this debate here in the european parliament today. we are experiencing a peak demand for raw and construction materials, but we have the necessary means to cope with it if it persists. first, our green and digital transitions may well be adding pressure on these resources. new technologies depend on raw materials, especially on critical raw materials, and we will see a significant increase in demand for these. we are making considerable funding available through the recovery and resilience fund to support transitions. second, the pandemic has highlighted the distortive impact of restrictions. it also revealed import dependency for resources and this requires our attention and action. and third, there are global trends, in particular massive investment booms in other economies that are driving up demand for these materials. we will need joint action by the eu institutions, member states, industry and the research and innovation communities. we also need strategic cooperation with third countries. in our work, we must involve civil society organisations. citizens need to be involved, especially on investments affecting local communities. finally, i would like to emphasise that restrictions to the free movement of goods in the area of construction will not address the root causes of price increases of raw and construction materials.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for a resolution on the case of ahmadreza djalali in iran (2021/2785(rsp))*. ______________* see minutes.
author. president, respect for human rights and the rule of law. our values as set out in article 2 of the treaty are fundamental to the policies of the european union, both for ourselves within the european union and for our relations with other countries. and rightly so. we also have great ambitions in the field of human rights and the rule of law. this can be seen in the launching of an effective system of sanctions for serious human rights violations worldwide. our resolution today on the extremely precarious situation of dr djalali is a testament to the seriousness with which we are doing so. the justified demand for his immediate and unconditional release and the threat of sanctions, which we express in clear terms, are for me a very clear illustration of how the european parliament wants to give credibility to the stated ambitions of the eu. dr djalali was a highly respected academic at the free university of brussels. that is why his case is being followed with particular interest in my country, as well as in sweden and other member states. with fear, but also with hope. for years, flemish universities have suspended their cooperation with academic institutions in iran and made its resumption conditional on humane treatment with medical care and legal assistance, and on a fair trial and non-application of the death penalty. i strongly and firmly endorse the call of our universities and of course also the call of his family and many others to do everything possible at all policy levels to secure dr djalali's release. we, as the european union, have the means to make a difference, including sanctions. we, as the european union, can and must make a difference here.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. i call on the new iranian president, ebrahim raisi, to commit himself immediately and personally to withdrawing the threat of execution of the swedish citizen and academic, ahmadreza djalali. he must be released immediately and unconditionally so that he can return to his family in sweden. iran must immediately ensure that djalali receives adequate medical care, that he has access to a lawyer, that he has continuous contact with his family. the threats against the djalali family must stop immediately. a medieval human view is behind the use of an irreversible and horrible practice - the death penalty. the death penalty will one day be thrown on the dustbin of history where it belongs. there is no excuse for iran's continued use of the death penalty. a moratorium must be imposed now and then the death penalty must be abolished. the eu has been in continuous diplomatic talks with iran to improve our relations. negotiations on a renewed nuclear deal have recently been suspended, but they need to be resumed to prevent iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. a nuclear-armed iran would further escalate tensions in a region already plagued by human rights abuses, continuing conflict, widespread poverty and hunger. the worst humanitarian disaster in the world, the one in yemen, is unfolding before our very eyes and the blood in our veins is freezing as we see the vulnerability of the children there. the rivalry between saudi arabia and iran is one of the breeding grounds for the conflict, and civilians are the first to suffer. women and children are particularly affected. when the middle east continues to be dominated by repressive regimes, there is no place to address the global challenges that we face together, democracy and climate action that must go together. but even if iran does not recognize dual citizenship, i must point out that djalali is a swedish citizen and he should be released immediately. see that he is released now, that he and his family are spared the immense suffering that no man can imagine they are now enduring.
- a writer. president. - we are voting today as a matter of urgency. i have to tell you, it's a real emergency. it's about our swedish-iranian doctor and visiting professor at vub, ahmadreza djalali. he has been unjustly imprisoned in an iranian prison for five years and was sentenced to death in 2017. and since then, as you can see in the photos, emaciated, skinny as a bone, his medical condition has deteriorated dramatically. that's why i'm here today to say: it's an emergency. actually, i only have one question: djalali is free! and that appeal is to the president, to the newly elected president. don't carry out that death sentence! let this doctor, this doctor, this father, this academic, this husband return to his family. and i repeat it. free djalali! i know! free djalali! i know! actually, we should only say two words for an entire hour. free djalali! i know! free djalali! i know! iran, if you want better relations with europe, we ask you one thing now. free djalali! i know! free djalali! i know! free djalali! i know! free djalali! i know!
author. – madam president, it has been more than four years since the arrest and imprisonment of dr djalali, a dual swedish national, in violation of numerous human rights conventions. after having spent over 100 days in solitary confinement, his health has dramatically worsened, as well as his psychological condition, after having been subject to different forms of torture. the case of dr djalali is not an isolated one. there are at least a dozen other eu nationals who are arbitrarily detained in iran. in this resolution, we urge the iranian authorities to end the practice of arbitrarily detaining individuals as leverage over foreign countries, to stop his execution and abolish the death penalty. his case reminds us of the need to further strengthen our human rights dialogue with iran at all levels, while we increase the protection and support for human rights defenders, particularly women. we also need to use all our diplomatic channels to improve relations with iran and particularly with its civil society. the ongoing joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) talks in vienna on the revival of the 2015 nuclear deal presents us with an opportunity to deepen this dialogue and build the foundations of a new multidimensional relationship based on the respect of international law and human rights. these talks should also serve to adopt a wider regional perspective that allow us to play a more strategic role in responding to security crises in the region. the jcpoa is a cornerstone for a durable mutual trust between the eu, iran and the us, but also the best instrument to ensure stability and security in the middle east. this parliament should irrevocably support a return to the nuclear deal and particularly to have a strong voice in defence of human rights in the country. and that is why i want to join my voice also today to say: ‘free djalali’.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. dr ahmad reza djalali is a swedish-iranian citizen specialised in emergency medicine and an academic who has worked at several universities, including brussels and piedmont. djalali was arrested on 24 april 2016 by iranian security forces. in october 2017, he was sentenced to death on trumped-up charges of espionage and followed an unfair trial based on a confession that was coerced, extracted under torture. djalali's health is critical after months of prolonged solitary confinement. he's been sleep deprived, he's lost a lot of weight, and he's already having trouble speaking. we therefore call once again for the immediate suspension of djalali's execution and his release. this is a violation of international law in every respect. there are many people who are arbitrarily detained in iran, and this case shows us the need to strengthen our dialogue with iran for the protection of human rights and also reminds us of the permanent and uncompromising need to protect human rights defenders, in particular women. i therefore join my colleagues in this call for 'free djalali'.
author. madam president, we all agree here that the case before us today is a reminder of iran's propensity to go to great lengths to win concessions from the west, such as the release of its own nationals. it would be tempting to see a link with the trial in belgium of assadullah assadi for a plot to bomb in france. beyond the tragic case of this academic condemned to death in iran on the basis of specious allegations, this resolution rightly denounces a judicial and prison system of another age which applies the worst corporal punishments, from amputation to flogging, or even the death penalty in its most degrading form, that of public execution. i regret, however, that the fate of the christian minority has been totally hidden, especially that of converts, such as this man who was sentenced to 80 lashes for drinking communion wine. this should be at the heart of the european dialogue with iran, which must continue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in december 2020, the second session of the antwerp trial was about to start. an iranian diplomat and his accomplices were being tried and later sentenced for the attempted bombing of the annual gathering of the iranian democratic opposition in paris. that day of the trial, the iranian authorities announced that ahmadreza djalali was going to be executed. and today we are coming together in this parliament in a call to halt his execution again. terrorism against democratic opposition on european soil; number one executioner of women in the world; unrestrained use of the death penalty; relentless persecution of ethnic, religious and sexual minorities; destabilising strategies in the region; host of al-qaeda leadership; and now ebrahim raisi elected as president – someone under shocking and well-grounded allegations of human rights violations so serious that the un investigator on human rights in iran has called for a thorough investigation on the massacre of 1988 and raisi’s involvement in it. raisi’s election should end the delusion about the existence of so-called moderates having any role within the iranian regime. by supporting djalali, we support the people of iran, because there is a new iran that is struggling to emerge, and committed to embrace the democratic principles of governance. so let’s make every diplomatic effort within our reach, as we are supposed to do. but let’s not forget the struggle for democracy, separation of state and religion, gender equality, respect and protection of the rights of minorities. while we urge the iranian authorities to free djalali, we should ask how many djalalis, whether they are european citizens or not, remain locked up in iranian prisons. and how many of them will be killed unless we strengthen our response to iran’s autocracy and its determination to prevail over the suffering of its people.
madam president, ahmadreza djalali is a dual swedish—iranian citizen, therefore a european citizen, who is planned to be executed after an unfair trial after fake accusations of espionage. arbitrary detentions of foreign nationals by iran and other regimes is becoming common and we need also, i think, international action against arbitrary detention of foreign nationals. in this particular case, europe cannot allow the execution of professor djalali, a scholar who has devoted his life to advanced emergency medicine for the benefit of all. so i would like to join in everyone’s demand for the immediate release of professor djalali. europe is the world beacon of human rights. we have a duty to mobilise all our political capital to save professor djalali. europe has the tools, with the navalny act. the assets of all iranian officials and entities involved in this arbitrary detention should be frozen. i want to tell the iranian authorities and the newly—elected president that political executions are never a sign of strength, but the opposite. professor djalali, we are doing everything it takes to bring justice to you and to bring you home. free djalali!
author. madam president, madam commissioner, it is indeed moving to see the suffering and concern expressed by certain groups in this house about the closure of a newspaper in china, but it would be more credible if those concerns were not expressed only when events take place in countries that the united states has in its sights. this resolution, in our view, is a new excuse to pour more gasoline into this new version of the cold war, openly announced by the united states. if this parliament were to express the same concern about such acts when they are committed by countries which are friends of the eu, then we might start to believe it. in the meantime, this is nothing but a new, gross interference against a sovereign state, which will undoubtedly serve us to get a pat on the back from the united states, but which will certainly only cause losses for the workers and companies of the member states of the european union. once again, i insist: let us stop being subordinated to the united states and relate to other states with an unambiguous vocation of horizontal cooperation, respect for sovereignty and mutual benefit.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner vălean, if there is one sector that has been strongly affected by the coronavirus crisis, it is, without any doubt, the aviation sector. the drop in traffic due to the coronavirus will have dramatic consequences in the coming years and, above all, threatens the economic viability of companies, the jobs generated by and linked to air transport and, of course, working conditions. that is why, mrs vălean, in march 2020, my parliamentary group, the renew group, presented you with a very concrete proposal: a specific support plan for the transport sector. an ambitious plan with a whole series of specific batteries aimed specifically at the aviation sector. and that is why we are very pleased that some of these measures have been very well received and successfully implemented by your department. but still, 15 months later, we are faced with a similar scenario. the pace of recovery in the air transport sector is totally uncertain and, above all, it requires strong support from the european union to safeguard businesses and, consequently, jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the safety of the air transport sector. firstly, public/private financial support; incorporating public/private partnerships, also in this sense, to meet the challenges of the future. secondly, legal and operational security for the entire value chain of the industry, of course ending all abusive labour practices that are found, whenever that occurs. and finally, thirdly, and very importantly, fundamentally: institutional support, political commitment. we must therefore stop criminalizing a sector which is fundamental to territorial cohesion in europe and which also directly contributes to one of the three basic pillars of the european project: the free movement of people. only then can we safeguard jobs and, above all, the competitiveness of european aviation.
mr president, commissioner, aeronautics is a strategic sector of the union, with over 600 000 direct jobs. aircraft manufacturers have been affected by the cancellation of deliveries and, in the basque country alone, 600 workers have lost their jobs. 20% of the sector has disappeared as a result of the redundancies at aernnova, itp, alestis, aciturri and lauak, and this places the european commission before the need to take action in this regard. the sector's employment and its future must be strongly defended, because the dismissals linked to the pandemic are unacceptable. we are talking about an absolutely circumstantial situation. and we must protect the sector from relocations, the result of the large-scale buying and selling operations taking place in the context of the loss of value of some companies. the union cannot facilitate the creation of an opportunistic concentration in response to the pandemic. and finally, the great challenge of the aeronautics sector is also, in this case, the ecological transition. as is being done, more or less successfully, in the automobile sector, the aeronautics sector needs a public plan to link it to the objectives of the green deal and thus protect the employment of thousands of workers as a matter of priority.
mr president, commissioner, covid-19 has dealt an unprecedented blow to the aviation sector. we are all aware of this, and it is urgent to work on his recovery. in addition, we have been calling for a social agenda for aviation for years and the revision of regulation (ec) no 1008/2008, which is open and on standby since 2015, something incomprehensible. if working conditions in the sector were already precarious, with atypical forms of employment, social dumping and unfair competition, after the pandemic they are even more so. we have to act now. the commission itself acknowledged in 2019 the existence of abusive practices that circumvent national and european social legislation. and, as you said, commissioner, in the sustainable and intelligent mobility strategy, you promised a revised proposal by the end of this year. we need aviation to recover to ensure connectivity and cohesion across europe, but it must be done in a sustainable and socially responsible way. decent working conditions must be ensured for all staff. and i would ask the commission to be a real ally in this process and to act accordingly. responsibility and competitiveness do not have to be at odds.
mr president, commissioner, a couple of months ago a servant was arguing in this house that labour mobility in the european union should move towards a freer, fairer and safer model. however, the practices we have seen in the airline industry in recent years are far from being a breakthrough for all workers in the sector, and are contrary to european law: wages below the inter-branch minimum; zero-hour contracts; pay-for-flight schemes; illegal transfer of workers; workers being replaced by fake self-employed; lack of legal protection; obstacles to union and collective bargaining; and so on. this is the reality of what is happening in the european union today. a race to the bottom has been created, to the bottom of the precariousness of a sector such as aviation, which is vital for spain and, above all, for europe. the lack of adequacy of regulation (ec) no 1008/2008 gives rise to companies that base their business model on precariousness to circumvent compliance with the law. do you not think it is time we revised this regulation immediately? do you not think it is time to develop legal measures to ensure a level playing field and legal certainty for crews? the single market is not a jungle. let us take action to prevent it being used as a pretext to undermine fundamental rights and perpetuate precarious working conditions.
mr president, commissioner, we have to learn the lessons of the covid-19 crisis, and one of them is that we must prepare ourselves for future health crises in a much more effective, optimized and coordinated way. first of all, i would like to highlight the joint purchase of vaccines that has been coordinated by the european union, which has enabled all the member states to have access to vaccination and to have the vaccination rates that are being achieved today. but i want to focus on three important elements: the first of these is that i believe that the joint purchasing procedure by the member states needs to be improved. we must also improve the transparency requirements in joint procurement procedures and, finally, strengthen the monitoring role of this european parliament. from an internal market perspective, it is important that we support the creation of a minimum stock of strategic products reserves so that, in future crises such as the one we have experienced, the european union and all the member states have a minimum stock of health products, products related to medicines, ppe, vaccination, etc., so that in a future crisis the european union is much better prepared.
mr president, the two regulations we are discussing today - the ecdc and crossborder threats - are being combined with the ema regulation, for which i am the rapporteur, to make this the first step towards a european health union, a genuine european health policy. we have seen how at the beginning of the pandemic we demanded data, information, etc. from the ecdc and it was not able to give them because there was no real european coordination and it did not have the resources or the sufficient robustness. among other things, staff was lacking. we must staff it, and this regulation is moving in that direction. there is also room for european health policies in crossborder threats. the rapporteur, véronique trillet-lenoir, and sara cerdas have said that we need to make progress in european health policies. there is room for this without assuming the competence of the member states. we must move forward in creating these state health plans, coordinating them and, why not, moving towards joint positions to treat pandemics and include noncommunicable diseases. 'more europe' is about being better prepared for health. that's the way. let's keep moving along there.
madam president, commissioner, we hear talk of flexibility and optimisation, of resources, of technological development and new forms of employment, but reality is spraying the advertising engineering of the platform economy, a model built for fiscal dumping and social dumping, that is, on the basis of the denial of labour rights and tax evasion. the first thing to do is to recognize the presumption of the employability of our workers in line with european jurisprudence: that at this stage of the struggle our struggle is not to extend our rights but to recognize ourselves as workers is already telling us something. the enormous profits of these companies are due to the precariousness and the temporary nature of their contracts, that is to say, to the exploitation of their workers. secondly, the management of algorithms has to be transparent, because these algorithms today monitor, discriminate and violate individual and collective rights, but no one is held accountable for them. and thirdly, with the platform economy, our tax and contribution revenues are being reduced. either that is corrected or there will be no financial balance or social protection for anyone.
madam president, commissioner, digitalisation and the application of artificial intelligence in the workplace are creating new models that involve clear precariousness, hyperconnection, control and surveillance or algorithmic decisions without human supervision. the implications for the mental health and emotional well-being of workers are already clear, and we need new legislation now: a directive to prevent psychosocial risks in the workplace and a directive to regulate the use of artificial intelligence in the workplace. to do this, the commission must listen and meet with all the parties, companies and trade unions, because workers do not need psychologists, but decent working conditions, safe and quality work. the digitisation of the workplace cannot be a purely technological process; it must be a socio-technical process, where technology and humanism go hand in hand.
madam president, commissioner, at the beginning of september we saw a shocking picture: while hurricane ida was causing severe flooding and dozens of deaths in the united states, a door-to-door food delivery worker was still working, pedaling with difficulty with water up to his waist. it's a shocking, but also outrageous image, and it helps us to confront new emerging inequalities, such as that of workers without rights. while it is true that new types of employment and platform work can help or have the potential to help reconcile work and family life, that does not change the fact that many are precarious jobs and below labour standards, and this is not tolerable. europe must be characterised by respect for workers' rights and fundamental freedoms, including in the digital field. and so, from parliament, we call for human control behind the algorithms, for companies to have an obligation to report on the algorithms used and to ensure transparency in relation to the personal data used. we therefore take a clear stand against surveillance capitalism in the workplace as well.
mr president, every new ipcc report is telling: climate change is alarming. behind the climate act we have an ambitious legislative package on the road to 2030. i thank the commission and vice-president timmermans for presenting it. but let's focus on the basics: 75 percent of emissions are related to the energy sector, which is largely fossil and imported. we need to move forward on renewables in a sustainable way and with a respectful deployment, and be efficient. the best energy spent is the energy we don't consume. but let's not forget that there will be costs and that this effort needs to be transformed into a cleaner, more autonomous economy. what we cannot allow is for those costs to increase the gap of inequality. the alarming evolution of wholesale prices is a reminder that calls us to concentrate efforts to engage citizens, accompany them so as not to give way to populism and decarbonise our economy. now, we who are here must legislate. i call for a focus on people and the health of the planet. it's a great challenge.
in writing. the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law. spanish socialists support the need for a green transition, but it is essential that it be fair, leaving no one behind. the process of decarbonising europe must take account of the social impact it may have on the most vulnerable people, which is why we call for the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms. the socialist group also believes that the border adjustment mechanism must play a key role in the green transition, with rapid implementation. on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
in writing. the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law. spanish socialists support the need for a green transition, but it is essential that it be fair, leaving no one behind. the process of decarbonising europe must take account of the social impact it may have on the most vulnerable people, which is why we call for the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms. the socialist group also believes that the border adjustment mechanism must play a key role in the green transition, with rapid implementation. on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
in writing. the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law. spanish socialists support the need for a green transition, but it is essential that it be fair, leaving no one behind. the process of decarbonising europe must take account of the social impact it may have on the most vulnerable people, which is why we call for the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms. the socialist group also believes that the border adjustment mechanism must play a key role in the green transition, with rapid implementation. on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
in writing. the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law. spanish socialists support the need for a green transition, but it is essential that it be fair, leaving no one behind. the process of decarbonising europe must take account of the social impact it may have on the most vulnerable people, which is why we call for the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms. the socialist group also believes that the border adjustment mechanism must play a key role in the green transition, with rapid implementation. on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
in writing. the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law. spanish socialists support the need for a green transition, but it is essential that it be fair, leaving no one behind. the process of decarbonising europe must take account of the social impact it may have on the most vulnerable people, which is why we call for the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms. the socialist group also believes that the border adjustment mechanism must play a key role in the green transition, with rapid implementation. on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
in writing. the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law. spanish socialists support the need for a green transition, but it is essential that it be fair, leaving no one behind. the process of decarbonising europe must take account of the social impact it may have on the most vulnerable people, which is why we call for the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms. the socialist group also believes that the border adjustment mechanism must play a key role in the green transition, with rapid implementation. on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
mr president, commissioner, as we are seeing in this debate, i think that a decade ago few of us thought that hundreds of people would die in fires in portugal or greece or that torrential rains would cause the death of 200 people in germany or belgium this summer. at the moment, in my country, in the south of spain, a unique natural area, the sierra bermeja, is burning - fortunately it is already under control. it's the first sixth generation fire we have in spain. ladies and gentlemen, what should concern us most is to see how ill-prepared we are as a society to deal with global warming. we are ill-prepared. that is why we must put forward proposals in this context. we must improve our capacity to adapt to climate change by strengthening our preparedness, planning and response tools. we must provide more resources to the civil protection mechanism and the solidarity fund. the european emergency response capacity which created this mechanism should be mandatory and not voluntary for the member states. europe needs a specialised response preparedness body for natural disasters caused by climate change. i don't care, your honours, whether we call it an agency, an agency, a department, a unit. the point is that we need that single space to predict, to prevent, to prepare, to respond better to these phenomena with sufficient technical, human, economic resources, because we are already late.
in writing. the scientific community is alert that extreme weather events linked to climate change will become more frequent and more severe, affecting all regions of the planet and becoming increasingly difficult to predict. the hundreds of deaths from floods and fires in advanced countries demonstrate how ill-prepared society is to deal with global warming, the resulting natural disasters, and the numerous personal and material damages they bring. the european union must step up its mechanisms to repair damage and losses in affected regions, while developing more effective climate change adaptation strategies. in this regard, in addition to opening the door to potential new instruments, the european solidarity fund and the civil protection mechanism should be strengthened. this summer's disasters highlight the need for a specialised disaster preparedness and response body in europe, working on prediction, prevention, preparedness and planning, as well as on the quickest and most effective response to natural disasters, with sufficient technical, human and economic resources.
in writing. the scientific community is alert that extreme weather events linked to climate change will become more frequent and more severe, affecting all regions of the planet and becoming increasingly difficult to predict. the hundreds of deaths from floods and fires in advanced countries demonstrate how ill-prepared society is to deal with global warming, the resulting natural disasters, and the numerous personal and material damages they bring. the european union must step up its mechanisms to repair damage and losses in affected regions, while developing more effective climate change adaptation strategies. in this regard, in addition to opening the door to potential new instruments, the european solidarity fund and the civil protection mechanism should be strengthened. this summer's disasters highlight the need for a specialised disaster preparedness and response body in europe, working on prediction, prevention, preparedness and planning, as well as on the quickest and most effective response to natural disasters, with sufficient technical, human and economic resources.
madam president, mr borrell, the united states and nato have led us to twenty years of war in afghanistan. twenty years ending with the taliban back in power, now armed with the arsenal that washington and its cronies have left behind in their flight. the population is left at the mercy of the terror of this group created by the united states in the midst of the cold war. women and girls are going to suffer the most from this situation, and we hope that the european union will take up its responsibility and facilitate the reception of those who flee the country. but we must not lose sight of the fact that the problems in afghanistan do not start now. mr borrell, you said in your opening statement that the united states was going to liberate and democratize the country. not only have they not done that, but they have left over 76,000 civilians dead from their humanitarian bombs. biden himself has acknowledged that they were only seeking to defend the interests of the united states and not the lives of afghan men and women. i do not know what else is needed for us to reflect and realise where this policy of subordination to the interests of the pentagon and the united states is taking us. mr borrell, in our view, the solution is not more armies. the solution is a defence system which is defence and not military intervention.
madam president, the collapse of afghanistan indicates the catastrophe of the continuity of us military interventions, invasions in the name of human rights that biden himself acknowledged as excuses. neither the causes of terrorism were tackled nor was work done on social empowerment and strengthening democracy now in the hands of the taliban. more terrorist groups, more desolation... and no one believes the united states or europe. leaving behind the multilateral system of the united nations to invade afghanistan and iraq, relying on the blairs, the aznars, the barrosos... the collapse of afghanistan is the end of a fiction: the fiction that wars can be humanitarian; the fiction that you can rebuild a country without its people. some countries have acted quickly, but it is not enough. we need a coordinated european response: ensuring that there are no deportations from european refugee camps; humanitarian corridors; family reunification; the temporary protection directive; applying for asylum in third country embassies and following up on reception plans... in addition to the necessary revision of a failed foreign policy, we must act urgently today. we have a responsibility today.
madam president, mr borrell, at the risk of sounding heavy-handed, i will insist on one point: we will not be a global player if we do not have our own intelligence services. and i understand that it is very difficult to think about that when denmark is spying on the german chancellor on behalf of the united states. but what's surprising is that no one has reacted to your very important announcement today. how are we going to examine the situation on the ground? you've cleared it today: we're going to get our representation back on track. and it is politically very important because it avoids having to rest, for that task, in the embassies of, for example, qatar, pakistan or turkey, giving them again a capacity of influence over the european union, which i think it is good that we avoid. i think there is a very passionate and very shocked atmosphere about the images we have seen from kabul airport, but the analysis and revision of our model of democracy promotion cannot be done in this hot climate: our analysis about the role of the military, our role of institution building outside and the role of local elites - often corrupt - and our model of democracy promotion have to be revised, but i think it doesn't have to be done as a pavlovian reaction to the unfortunate images from kabul airport.
madam president, mr. borrell, since february of 2020 we knew that the united states was going to withdraw from afghanistan. we also knew that there could be a collapse of the afghan government and we also knew that there could be the arrival of the taliban to the very government they now hold. and precisely because there was a high probability that this would happen, we in the european union had more than a year and a half to make a forecast of these circumstances and not to improvise. and it was precisely you, mr borrell, who had the responsibility of being the high representative, who had to make a forecast of a strategy, precisely to anticipate those events which we knew a year before would take place. and that is why, mr borrell, i want to ask you very quickly: why was the european union not anticipated? why did he not define a common strategy precisely to avoid what we already know and know? if there is one thing that the crisis in afghanistan has taught us, it is that the european union needs to coordinate better, coordinate with the united states, coordinate with nato and coordinate - most importantly - among the member states themselves. that is precisely one of your responsibilities, mr borrell. and we're here to play that game.
mr president, it is difficult to say whether it is possible for the european union to have a normalised relationship with vladimir putin's russia, but we must try. this report says a lot of things and it's very hard and it's very true. we've spent 20 years proving that putin is unreliable. it does not respect international law or conventions and, of course, human rights, either inside or outside russia: from the murders of opposition members or the imprisonment of navalny to the invasion and annexation of crimea; from disinformation operations with puigdemont and catalan separatists to aggressions in ukraine or provocations in the baltic. there are many obstacles, currently insurmountable, that put president putin in a relationship that could and should be much more intense and beneficial for both parties. the european union must be firm and united against putin's russia. that is why we must condemn initiatives which cause divisions, such as the selfish german venture of north stream ii. at the same time, the european union must insist on this cooperation with russia, because russia will still be there when putin is finished, that russia whose future cannot be to become the reserve of raw materials for china. we need a cooperator in russia for the future and somehow we have to do it.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, we share broadly the analysis and ideas presented in the report that this parliament will adopt this week. the basic assumption as defined in the report, namely that the eu should differentiate between putin’s regime and russian society, is already an integral part of the five guiding principles which we will continue to implement in a balanced way. we will continue to maintain a firm stance against human rights violations and breaches of international law. the flexing of muscles by russia abroad, together with increased repression at home, raises concerns. democratisation should originate from within society. the role of the eu here is support, independent media and pluralism. when it comes to any attempts to undermine eu interests, the union itself must become more robust and resilient. we must keep developing the eu’s cyber security and defence capacity, as well as the strategic communication capabilities by stepping up work on foreign information, manipulation and disinformation. a strengthened cooperation with the eastern neighbourhood and our support to democratic reforms as the backbone of our policy remain our utmost interest. at the same time, russia will not go away. we need to move from a more reactive position to a proactive one to defend our values and interests at eu, regional and global levels. the european union remains engaged in this endeavour with realism and determination.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 september 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. mr president and colleagues of the european parliament! i am pleased to support the report on the european union's political relations with russia. it covers all the existing problems we face both regionally and in individual member states. the recent developments in the lukashenka regime's actions in facilitating the flow of illegal migrants across the european union's borders are unacceptable. we need to be clear about how we will ensure that the european union's borders are strengthened and how we will tackle other major issues in a coordinated way. i urge my colleagues to support this report and stand against the russian regime.
the next item is the report by mrs hilde vautmans, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the new eu strategy on china (2021/2037 (ini)) (a9-0252/2021).
rapporteur. – madam president, let me first thank my colleagues for their good cooperation on the report. we stand here as a united parliament. united in our belief that we must put our naivety aside when dealing with china. a united parliament that is very clear in its rejection of the investment agreement, as long as our colleagues are sanctioned and human rights violations are ongoing in china. in our report, we recognise that the rise of china will have an enormous impact on our way of life and europe’s role in the world. we also warn that europe is not prepared for this change because, until now, we have defined our relationship with china in terms of trade. don’t get me wrong, china is indeed a very interesting trading partner, and it’s great for european business that many chinese are now able to afford german cars, french wines and italian fashion. but economic gains should not make us blind to the challenges that the chinese communist party is posing to the liberal world order. the eu must be determined to defend our key values, and this requires a new and more assertive strategy. first, we must realise that china is too big to ignore. we cannot deal with climate change, terrorism and global security without working together with china. if you want to save our planet, china must be our partner in this field. that is why i fully disagree with those who plead for a complete decoupling between the west and china. but let’s not be naive. china’s cherry-picking of the rules of the united nations and the world trade organization must end. and china has to show that it means business on climate change; otherwise, the eu must introduce a border tax to offset the higher carbon emissions of chinese products. second, the eu must step up its defence of human rights and the rule of law. the communist regime tries to wipe out uyghur heritage from chinese soil. hong kong has been subject to one of the most brutal crackdowns we have seen in recent history. this repression is not limited to china. chinese ‘belt and road’ money is pouring into africa, the western balkans and latin america. it is financing regimes and companies that trample on human rights. reports of labour exploitation, land-grabbing, pollution and health issues are frequent. i call on our leaders to finally come up with a credible european alternative to the belt and road initiative. we must support sustainable investments which do not exploit workers, which respect the environment and enhance good governance. and let us increase the pressure on china to stop its crackdown on hong kong. and, as i have already said a lot of times, and i will repeat it again, we need to stop importing cotton from the xinjiang area because products from slave labour have no place in the european union. third, the eu will clearly never be a match for china or the other world powers unless we get our act together. the disaster in afghanistan has shown that we need a european army, a real foreign policy without national vetoes. it is also very clear to me that we need a european fbi and cia to counter foreign threats. china’s rise has only just begun. some say europe’s decline started a long time ago. let’s prove them wrong and step up our ambitions. let’s show that the time for naivety is over. let’s make europe fit for the future with a new strategy to deal with the rising dragon, combined with a strategy to make a fist on the world stage.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, today’s debate is a timely opportunity to discuss our common approach to china. as reflected in your report, a lot has changed in the past months when it comes to this important relationship and not necessarily for the better. relations have become increasingly challenging. until the end of 2020 we saw positive steps in developing eu-china relations, rebalancing our economic relations and developing our international toolbox to address challenges brought along by china. this increased leverage and credibility allowed us to conclude the negotiations of the comprehensive agreement on investment in december, but also to agree on human rights sanctions over chinese individuals under the eu global human rights sanctions regime. since then, the situation has changed. the chinese decision to impose counter measures, including on members of this parliament simply for having expressed their opinions, has led to a worsening of relations. china will remain an increasingly assertive global power that does not shy away from applying economic pressure on countries and actors whose policies it disagrees with. our values gap is growing, so is the need for eu solidarity and for signalling that certain actions are unacceptable. this plenary debate and the report on a new eu-china strategy testify to this. i believe that our overall approach towards eu china relations, our multifaceted approach that treats china as a partner, competitor and rival, remains valid. we need to engage with china as a key economic partner and political player without whom we cannot address global challenges effectively. at the same time, the eu must continue to speak its mind, stand its ground and push back in areas where fundamental disagreement with china exists, first and foremost on human rights. our current framework to handle relations with china fits closely with the recommendations of this report. our overall approach encompasses key foreign policy aims that are not actor-specific, such as strategic autonomy. we aim at international cooperation which preserves our values and a rule-based multilateral system. we foster partnerships with the like-minded, as you will see in the indo-pacific strategy. all of this, taken together, reflects the recommendations put forward in the report. i thank ms vautmans and the shadow rapporteurs for the recommendations and the general support for our policies in this report. our unity remains our strength. i am looking forward to continuing our exchange.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, let me first thank ms vautmans for a very good report and for all the efforts at keeping this house united – and indeed we are. we are also self—confident. we don’t believe in defeatism and declinism. we think that if europe mobilises our positive energies, we can well stand up to the chinese challenge. but we have to acknowledge – and it’s long past time – that we believed that this was just about trade. this is much more about geopolitics and on many fronts increasingly we see that the systemic rivalry is coming to the fore. i would hope we would have more opportunities for cooperation on climate policy, for instance. but what is it that china tells us? they say we’re not willing to be a partner on climate unless you stop criticising our atrocious human rights record with regard to xinjiang. this is not what we are willing to accept. we are proposing positive european policies to create alternatives, like an alternative to the belt and road initiative. we want to stop the import of slave labour products. we will continue telling ms merkel and all the others that cai will remain in the freezer until china changes course. we will uphold the solidarity with lithuania and we are encouraging our leaders not to go to beijing, not to accept invitations to the olympics, if the chinese human rights situation does not change. for this policy, on which we have been united for quite a while in this house and which is a policy of pride and confidence, we would hope we get support also from the european commission and the member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, we are here to hear a great report, the report by mrs vautmans, which, for the first time in this house - perhaps for the first time in the european union - really presents a general overview of a great threat to our civilisation, a great threat to our security, such as china is at the moment. we are at the end of a huge misunderstanding that began 40 years ago, when we all thought that the approach to capitalism was going to make china a country that was slowly becoming more tolerant, more and more plural and more and more open. it's been the opposite. right now, we've had ten years with a leader who has really become a dictator like only mao was, and with a hardening of the situation inside china. china's attitudes out there are increasingly aggressive and more threatening. the internal repression is immense and the attitude towards the rest of the world is absolutely overwhelming and there is a bullying that threatens us and tries to frighten us all. so we have to have a very, very clear concept of what china is at this moment. we must have a very clear concept that we must have a global and general policy towards it. and we must have the opposite of what has been intended with these temptations of new investment agreements. we must have a policy of resistance in the face of immense aggression that is coming at us.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the european union has always had a hypocritical relationship with china: at the community level, by fomenting tension, while individual member states are seen to be doing big business and squandering essentially strategic resources. the new eu strategy with china must open a window of opportunity to stabilise and modernise a relationship based on dialogue and cooperation in a transparent way, in order to find solutions to problems that pose a major global challenge. climate change and its consequences, the global decline in human rights and fundamental freedoms, the lack of natural resources, food shortages in so many parts of the world, and many other emergencies, require us to devote all our efforts to developing a policy of cooperation based always on clear principles and fundamental rights with all the actors needed to achieve real change. let this relationship, which is generating so many benefits for so few within the european union, be put at the service of environmental, economic and social justice on an international scale. let's use it to advance human rights and global justice.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, javier moreno, and his team for the work they have done in the revision of the blue card directive, as well as all the groups who have collaborated to achieve this result after so many years. the aim was to achieve a more attractive blue card and, although the tripartite dialogues have not been easy, we have managed to get positive elements to be considered, such as faster procedures when we talk about intra-union mobility and family reunification or more favourable periods of unemployment in terms of long-term residence, in fact more favourable conditions for the applicant. these are the points which we consider to be the added value of the revision of the instrument. we would have liked, however, to have seen issues such as the extension of the list of qualifications, the opening up of more categories or the points mentioned above, such as long-term residence or the period of unemployment, to be even more favourable to the applicant, so that we would have achieved an even more attractive tool. in summary, we think that the result achieved is satisfactory, but we must not forget that it only includes the highly qualified groups, and we think that further work must be done to ensure that the union also provides entry routes for low and medium-skilled workers, as already proposed in the report on illegal immigration. finally, i would like to say that we must bear in mind that the situation in afghanistan is going to lead to a new wave of migration towards the union, which, in our view, should address, among other urgent measures, the creation of legal and safe routes for the most vulnerable groups. today we have successfully taken a small step which should be part of the whole of a european migration policy which respects human rights. it must be said, once again, that this is not the case with the pact on migration and asylum proposed by the european commission.
mr president, it is almost six hundred days since the brexit took place and thousands of people are still suffering the consequences of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. some economic sectors are being hit harder than others, such as the fisheries sector, which is suffering from a significant reduction in fishing quotas and significant losses. the brexit adaptation reserve mechanism, which is designed to compensate the most affected sectors, started with limited ambition. it had an improvable allocation and a distribution which was unfair to some of the countries concerned, such as spain. the good news is that will is power, and against those who would prefer nothing to change, we have prevailed those who felt it was worth making an effort to help those most affected. the result? a more ambitious fund, more aid, but also a fairer distribution system. the parties should therefore be congratulated on the good work and the willingness to cooperate.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, i understand that you have to tell us that everything is phenomenal, but, as with almost everything, the focus of this debate depends very much on the volume of your bank account. for example, it has been a good year for astrazeneca, which has made its august at the expense of public money, amid opaque processes and loud scandals; it has served to reinforce a far-right migration project, which leaves many benefits to a few. it has also served to arm the energy lobbies and oligopolies: they will take a good portion of the recovery fund, although there are no guarantees that they will meet the paris objectives. however, the soul of europe is not these profits. the soul of europe is the alcoa workers who have been laid off, the kellys, the young people who are out of work, the families who cannot pay their electricity bill, open arms and the ngos that rescue people in the mediterranean, and those who are fighting to stop climate change. i am very much afraid that the advance of the far right does not allow us to fall into complacent speeches. we must not forget, mrs von der leyen, that the breeding ground for the growth of the far right is the inequality, poverty and fear that have been caused by the eu's neoliberal policies.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, despite your triumphalist speeches, europe is in crisis. and this time, they can't blame anyone. the price of electricity is rising steadily because of his climate agenda, as he increases costs for businesses and consumers. and you announce a new target of 55% reduction in emissions. the entry of illegal immigrants into spain is breaking historical records. and you announce a new migration pact that will not protect europe's borders and will continue to encourage the mafias who execute the landing. the chinese communist party remains unresponsive internationally of its responsibilities in the matter of the chinese coronavirus crisis. and you keep encouraging these investment deals that will destroy european industry. they are setting up a conference on the future of europe which is only intended to give more power to brussels, but they are hiding the cost of that conference from us. they preach to the member states, but they punish the hungarian and polish people, forgetting that the commission is at the service of the states, and not the other way round. they call for saving afghan women from the taliban after they have made a fool of the entire international community, but, meanwhile, our wives and daughters walk unsafely through those neighborhoods of europe already taken over by jihadism. we will continue to cry out in the desert despite your insults and your mockery. you're still in the service of the elites. we'll stay on the street.
the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. it is the people who face, defenseless, pandemics, fires and floods. they are experiencing firsthand the consequences of stripped-down public health systems, the tragic shortages of permanent staff, resources and infrastructure, and are paying dearly for what private individuals sell them as commodities. the recovery fund, the 'green' digital businesses under the pretext of climate change, all paid for by the people through work 'sharing', telecommuting and layoffs, through 'fixed' pension and working until old age. with green taxes, with digital taxes, with energy poverty and with fire-pricing increases that governments, like the greek government, are supposedly compensating for - again with the people's money. the european union is using this money to infiltrate the land, with the euro-army and its groups, to invite war with or without the united states and nato, to drive the peoples to their roots. the so-called capitalist growth for all is a myth. it means everything to the few and suffering to the many. only organized struggle brings to the forefront the modern popular rights to overthrow the power of capital and to disengage from the european union.
mr president, i would like to welcome president von der leyen back to the european parliament. over the course of the last year, we have made far—reaching decisions together. together we have overcome the most difficult part of the pandemic. together we have made the decisions to help those people affected by the pandemic and to make sure that the european union will be stronger in the future. exactly one year ago, we had the will to act together, but we did not have the tools. we did not have a vaccine, we did not have an eu vaccination plan in place, we did not have a budget for the european union for the next years, and we did not have a recovery plan in place. due to our common action over the course of the last year, all of these elements are in place and now we have these tools in place. now we have to make sure that, particularly in helping the people and the economy recover, money from the european level is well spent. president von der leyen, i have two calls to make. firstly, we have to think when and how we pay back the amounts from next generation eu, and we have to make sure that we pay these back without affecting the budget of the european union in the future, and without needing to tell farmers, students or researchers that we have less money for them. the common answer which we – council, commission and parliament – have agreed is to go for own resources of the european union to provide stability for the financing of the european union in the future. this is why, president von der leyen, i kindly ask the commission to make a proposal, as we have discussed, on a digital levy on the carbon border adjustment tax and on the revision of the eu emissions trading system (ets) soon, over the course of the next weeks. secondly, we also have to progress with greening and digital. we cannot afford to put the transition towards the green economy on small and medium—sized enterprises and also on people affected by higher bills for electricity, specifically, the most vulnerable citizens. particularly in this global context of increased energy prices, i call upon the commission – i ask us all together – to make sure that we use all the instruments which we have at our disposal and create new instruments, if needed, to help the vulnerable citizens on this transition to the green economy. as during the pandemic, we have to be on the side of the people.
mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, the state of our union today is robust, and it is amazing to be able to say that when we are still in the midst of a brutal pandemic that has cost us so many lives and so many jobs. citizens have done their part: they have confined themselves to save the lives of others, they have continued to work so that our societies do not stop and they have been vaccinated. we have shown that europe is useful to its citizens by giving a decisive and effective response to the worst health crisis in a hundred years. thanks to this response, and despite the bad omen of some, we lead the world in vaccination with almost three quarters of our population vaccinated, which is more than in the united states and the united kingdom. we also lead the world in economic recovery. all european countries have fought the economic crisis with the same tools financed by the european union: erte to protect workers, guaranteed loans and direct aid to save smes. finally, together we have launched an ambitious recovery plan that will put our economies back on a greener, more sustainable and more humane path. in short, in spain today there are many people who are alive thanks to the vaccines bought by the european union and in spain today there are many people who have kept their jobs thanks to the erte financed by the european union. and in spain, tomorrow, many will find work thanks to the recovery plan that we have put in place together. we citizens can feel very fortunate to be europeans and, most importantly, we have shown that our model of open and tolerant democracy protects us better from any crisis than an authoritarian, populist or nationalist drift. but, mrs von der leyen, we at renew europe are not satisfied: we must continue to take firm steps against the pandemic. europe has the opportunity to vaccinate the world. let's do it, claim our global leadership. it is a matter of the european parliament.
mr president, madam president of the commission, i think your speech today lacked ambition in at least three areas which i believe will define the second part of your term of office. the first is the ambition to fight climate change. the recent un report is telling us that we are in the worst case scenario, we are not doing enough, and we are still here in brussels presenting a cap that goes against the climate goals and postponing the kerosene tax until after 2030. we have to do more and faster. secondly, afghanistan shows us that we must also move faster towards geopolitical union. i have to tell you that the star proposal today to eliminate vat for the european defence industry is not the solution. we must think about streamlining our decision-making mechanisms, about creating better synergies between member states. the commission must take the lead there. the third area, which i think we're playing a lot of a game with, is a new framework for economic governance. you haven't said much here today about it. i understand a certain caution, but of course if we want a fair exit from the economic crisis, we cannot go back to the framework of fiscal rules we had in the previous crisis. a thorough reform is needed in the coming months.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, this is the 11th anniversary of the state of the union. and it is no coincidence for me that the state of the union address of the president of the united states is being copied from the title here in the united states, because it is clear that unfortunately a majority of this house wants to develop this european union towards centralism, similar to the model of the united states of america, in order to apply this to europe. i think that is a wrong concept, because europe is nourished by its diversity and enjoys its wealth. and again and again the same pillar saints are worshiped. on the one hand, the climate, where the european car industry is being driven into the ground and massive increases in prices are being accepted by the general public. and the second is the issue of migration, where since 2015 the mistake has been made here to bring more and more people into the country under the heading of "asylum", even though we know that three quarters of them are not really in need of protection. i summarize: state of the union, bankruptcy, bad luck and failure, a certain amount of climate hysteria and a migration policy that is increasingly taking away europe's identity. i can only say: change your policy and the state of the union report will be better again.
but i think she missed one fundamental problem, and that's a little surprising. this is a problem that concerns many europeans and could determine the future of the union. there are growing doubts as to whether the commission itself is acting within the rights conferred by the member states in the treaties. i would remind you that article 13 of the treaty states that each institution shall act within the limits of the powers conferred upon it by the treaties. however, it seems that we are dealing with a process in which the commission and the european parliament are continuing to extend their powers, contrary to this principle, at the expense of the member states, by interfering with their legal and political order. as long as poland and hungary made such a claim, it was easy to dismiss it as a violation of the rule of law, but recently similar voices have been coming from other countries. the well-known michel barnier, mr president, speaks of the need for france to regain its legal sovereignty. it would be a mistake to think that this opinion is just a campaign ploy. because the former president of the german federal constitutional court, andreas vosskuhle, also accused the commission and the ecj of building a federal state through the back door. this argument was recently reiterated in a different form by another judge of the court, peter müller. dozens of german lawyers expressed similar sentiments in a statement published in the german press. so there is no doubt that we are facing a growing problem. the commission seems to forget that it is not a super-government over the governments of the member states. and i think we should address that problem. we will certainly be discussing it at the conference on the future of europe. this is a fundamental problem for the whole of european architecture and the european union. thank you, mr. chairman. thank you, mr. chairman.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission is not going to be able to do that. as usual, you paint most of what europe does in beautiful colors, but it's not a true picture. we have a climate emergency, and the proposals that the commission has put forward are not sufficient. that's what the science says, and that's what the young people out there are saying, when we listen to them. the left is demanding that the eu do more, do better and do it faster. the left also calls for a europe that upholds international asylum law and protects those who flee. we do not accept the brutal and racist immigration policy that is now being devised. to the young people who may be listening to us here today, i have to say that the left is the only political group that stands up against your militarization. wasn't 20 years of failed war in afghanistan enough? now you want to build a european army. put your money on climate, on the future, on equality instead. that's what the young people need to hear. finally, i would point out that democracy and the rule of law come last in your speech - the very foundations on which we are going to build our future. the commission has been ducking and ducking. it's time to go. orbán and company must not be allowed to determine our future.
mr president, madam president of the commission, today, the international day of democracy, is the best day to hold this debate. over the past two decades, europeans have been hit by a series of crises. jobs have been lost, and worse, we have lost loved ones. the responses to these crises have not always been the most successful: brexit, nationalism and populism are three examples of false promises that worsen the present and darken the future. europe needs to move towards a more perfect union, avoiding unsound and opportunistic separatism, because division weakens us. the afghan crisis is a humanitarian tragedy, a setback for the west and a turning point for europe. we must do much more in defence of freedom and democracy in sister countries like cuba, venezuela and nicaragua; we must have greater capacity for action and response in foreign policy and we must move forward decisively in defence; otherwise the result will be vulnerability and dependence on other global actors. we have led by example and fraternity with the coronavirus vaccination. the european recovery funds are also involved, but we must remain vigilant so that they are distributed fairly and efficiently. these funds are to re-industrialize europe, for a competitive, sustainable and digital economy, which creates opportunities and quality jobs. but major challenges remain: reaching a common european agreement on migration, the protection of the rule of law in the 27 member states, the separation of powers and judicial independence. ladies and gentlemen, the european union stands for the defence of human rights, freedom, equality, prosperity and solidarity, but it must also have the means and the will to put these principles into practice. if we give in to nationalism, populism and anti-liberal regimes, we will end up betraying that great legacy. we cannot allow the union to become an empty shell, unable to offer a better future to our children. the european union must remain at the forefront of the world.
in writing. now that we have to take stock of the state of the union in the last year, we should be proud of the eu. despite the shadows, which have also been cast, we cannot ignore the fact that europe's handling of the crisis has been positive, creating a safety net for citizens when it was needed most. examples of this success are the vaccination campaign or the management of stds. it is crucial, however, not to fall into complacency. as we have learned from past crises, the real challenge now is to decide what to do with the recovery plan, which will lay the foundations for the europe of the future. and this future is about cleverly resolving open fronts. the first is to ensure that the funds are spent and spent well. the recovery plan should be geared towards the green transition, digitalisation and sustainability. in short, to ensure a more prosperous future for the next generation. step by step europe must walk towards the light at the end of the tunnel and be aware that falling into triumphalism will only lead us to stumble again over the same mistakes we have already made in the past.
mr president, today we are talking about improving the exchange of tax information in the common market. we naturally encourage cooperation in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, as long as there is no unnecessary bureaucracy for business. but this debate is another typical example of european federalists going too far with their amendments. they deplore tax regimes in certain member states, even call for infringement proceedings and want to abolish the principle whereby parliament recognises that taxation is a national competence. i'll help these colleagues. the treaties give taxation to the member states, so what you are proposing in your amendments is simply not acceptable. so, shoemaker, stick to your reading and focus on the things that are possible. direct taxation is a core competence of and between member states. let's keep it that way.
madam president, commissioner, it is certainly a good thing that the european commission has made the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud one of its priorities. firstly, because the perpetrator must always pay, wherever he comes from; and that public institutions are working together to prosecute crime and to make the sense of impunity disappear is very good news. secondly, because the regulator should not exist to create problems, but to control possible imbalances in the market, such as the existence of this kind of harmful tax practices that prevent everyone from competing on equal terms. and thirdly, because we cannot afford to continue to lose more than 150 billion euros a year from the public purse because of these harmful practices. we can't look the other way. but the european union is not only built by us all borrowing together to spend more. the spirit of the union is built by working to become more competitive, more efficient, more specialised and more free every day, and the fiscalis 2020 programme mentioned in the report is a good example of this. the economic policy of the european union in general and the fiscal policy in particular cannot be limited to putting on the table new tax figures that can be created or to constantly talking about tax harmonization. we must concentrate all our efforts on combating tax evasion and creating the environment for genuine competitiveness for enterprises.
madam president, commissioner, we’ve been here before. we’re now talking pegasus, but we’ve been here for prism, nsa, echelon and so many other scandals where we found out that we were being spied upon, basically without limits. and i’m a bit tired of us only complaining and saying it’s terrible, but we can’t do anything because it’s exclusive national competence. sorry, all the european citizens are involved here, so we need european action. i would like to repeat what was adopted here many years ago: we need a european intelligence service with fully—fledged parliamentary oversight by the european parliament. i’m glad that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) has followed our call for an investigation, but i think we immediately also have to start working on legislative proposals. and here i have to say i’ve heard the proposals of the european commission, but they somehow clash with the persistent calls for european legislation to weaken encryption. there is a contradiction here. we need to consider this very seriously. finally, commissioner, first of all, i would like to get an answer to my written parliamentary question about this topic going back to july. secondly, i have submitted a request for access to documents to the european commission, and i am getting replies now from the different dgs, all saying, ‘nso? never heard of it. we have no documents containing any references to nso’. i find it hard to believe that there’s never been any contact at all between the european institutions and nso. so i would like to get a full answer.
since the orbán government took office on 29 may 2010, the hungarian national security services have not and do not continue to conduct illegal surveillance. hungary is a democratic state of law, everyone has acted and is acting in accordance with the legislation in force. the public bodies authorised to use cloaked means are also regularly audited by governmental and non-governmental institutions. the checks carried out fully support the lawful functioning of the hungarian national security services. under leftist governments, however, many serious irregularities occurred. if we look for the times when opposition politicians and journalists were listened to on political grounds or when secret information was collected about them, then we should study the period of ferenc gyurcsány's government: the bajusz and ov acts, russian secret services at the hungarian national security services. not to mention that a new ally of the hungarian left, a former mep for jobbik, was found guilty by the court of preparing espionage in the second degree.
madam president, commissioner, cyber surveillance tools are fundamental to the work of the state security forces and bodies. as a career judge and magistrate and as a minister, i have been able to witness firsthand how the fight against terrorism, against organized crime, against drug trafficking and many other threats to our security depends on these cyber surveillance tools. but we must be aware of its enormous power and its risks. a software like pegasus has come to be categorized as a weapon by the israeli government itself, and like any weapon, pegasus can be used for good or evil. the problem is not the weapon itself, but who wields it and for what. unfortunately, if the recent revelations are confirmed, it would show that this software has ended up in the wrong hands and has been used for spurious purposes. it is unacceptable that governments use these tools to spy on journalists instead of terrorists, and to pursue political opponents instead of drug traffickers. however, since it is impossible to control the use of this software, once it is acquired, democratic countries must establish stricter controls for its sale. the european union, together with countries such as israel, must ensure that only those countries with sufficient democratic credentials and respect for the rule of law, such as spain, have access to this technology.
madam president, commissioner, several countries around the world have used the pegasus spy programme to illegitimately monitor journalists, political dissidents and activists. in this europe which stands for values such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, we find that its member states are using this technology. the spanish state uses pegasus to investigate political rivals, including the president of the parliament of catalonia, mr torrent, or a former colleague of yours, ernest maragall. we demand that in countries where any cases of illegal surveillance have occurred, independent investigations be carried out and accountability demanded. finally, the use of surveillance technology must be suspended until the european union has a regulatory framework in place to ensure full respect for fundamental rights.
madam president, i would like to draw attention to an aspect that has been little discussed: the consideration of pegasus as a software for military use or a 'military grade of spyware' because, indeed, if to sell pegasus you need the permissions of a weapon, it is because pegasus is just another weapon in this hybrid war. and, on the international handling of the arms trade, there is a great deal of historical experience with conventional weapons, with nuclear weapons, with biological and chemical weapons. that's the path we have to take with the digital weapons that are part of this hybrid war. and it is true that the problem is that while international regulation is coming, while the global moratorium on sale, transfer and use is coming, absolute transparency in commercial licences is needed, the use of domestic mechanisms in each country, more frequent public reports and due diligence on the part of the companies creating or marketing, and here, in the european house - it has been said - creating a true culture of safety in each institution. also a culture of shared intelligence. and today, mrs von der leyen has said it from this podium: we have to share intelligence, all european intelligence services, while creating an intelligence of the european union, and consider digital sovereignty as sacred as geographical sovereignty.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the members and the teams of the various groups who have contributed to the fact that we can vote on an ambitious, inclusive and, above all, much needed report in this plenary session. i think it is fair to highlight the collaboration and constructive attitude that has prevailed throughout the negotiation of a report that will help to chart the way towards the eradication of gender-based violence, a scourge that the united nations has come to define as a shadow pandemic, which kills us for the simple fact of having been born women. we talk about the violence that our daughters, our sisters, our mothers and our grandmothers suffer. a violence that we ourselves suffer in our streets, homes and workplaces. the numbers are tragic. one in three women in the european union has suffered physical or sexual violence. half of us have been harassed and one in twenty has been raped. behind these staggering numbers are already millions of names. millions of lives cut short with which, as public servants, we have an inescapable duty. i would ask this house to be aware of the moment. we are facing a vote that could be historic. we can and must make today the day on which the european parliament called by a majority for gender-based violence to be included in the list of areas of crime with a european dimension. this would, as you all know, allow the european union to have legal definitions, rules, minimum criminal sanctions common throughout the european territory, and for all forms of gender-based violence, not just hate crimes on the basis of gender, as the commission sometimes proposes in its work programme. the commission proposal is not enough if it does not include forms of gender-based violence in article 83, and it differs from the commitment that president von der leyen made in her speech when she was a candidate and defended what we are going to vote on in this house today. we are not naive, we know that several countries will show their reluctance at the council. but this cannot be an excuse for us here today not to do our job; not to fulfil our commitment to the welfare, safety, freedom and even happiness of this 50% of the population that we represent as women. in addition, the amendment of article 83 could also serve as a legal basis for the directive on gender-based violence which the commission has committed itself to adopting and which we will press for to be done this year without delay. the amendment of this article would not only allow the directive to act in the fields of prevention, support or training in line with the istanbul convention, but would also enable it to go further, be much more holistic and ambitious, and could also address the criminal aspect of gender-based violence. in short, the union would have more and better tools to combat gender-based violence, which is one of the most serious and persistent human rights violations in the history of mankind. who could be against this objective, apart from the far right, who we know will not support this report today. honestly, we weren't expecting you. we did not expect any vote from those who day by day prove that they only work to cut back the rights and freedoms that our ancestors earned with their hands. today is also a day to tell the far right that, in the face of their intolerance and contempt for fundamental rights, they will find a majority in this house representing the europe of the common good, prosperity, freedom and fraternity.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, gender-based violence is insufficiently and unequally recognised and prosecuted in the european union. many countries have not ratified the istanbul convention or are threatening to withdraw; most do not differentiate between domestic violence and gender-based violence, or do not even consider domestic violence a crime; and the few that do consider gender-based violence do not define it in the same way. spain is currently the most advanced country in this respect, but if we look around us, the legislative disparity is such that: we lack sufficient and comparable data; we do not have the legal tools to protect, support and compensate victims adequately; we do not have sufficient resources, funding or professionals; and, as there is no cooperation between states, the aggressors can camp at large in one country of the union, while justice pursues them in another. it is incomprehensible that crimes against women are considered less serious than crimes such as corruption or computer crime, which are prosecuted in a more homogeneous, coordinated and resource-rich manner. for all these reasons, gender-based violence must be a 'european crime', because of its extreme gravity, its cross-border dimension and because it can only be stopped if we have common criteria. we know that the road is long and that some parties, governments and denialist lobbies will try to avoid it at all costs, but this thursday's vote is the first step towards achieving it.
we now continue the debate on the report by malin björk and diana riba i giner (a9-0249/2021) (2021/2035 ((inl)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after having achieved legal recognition of equality between men and women, you are now proposing to destroy it. national legislation already covers all types of criminal aggression against any person. the perversity of gender ideology would be consummated by this action, conquering the heart of the laws. it's the biggest step backwards in equality. it's not true that he's going to protect the woman. the real intention is something else: to sow insecurity and mistrust. face the men and women. break the unity of society, of the family. children are shown their parents' relationship as a power struggle, even for custody, depriving them of their parents, dividing them in affection. of course, no one in this world can doubt or disagree with these ideas. whoever does so will be prosecuted by the laws that have been legitimized here in the european parliament itself. it is an intrusion into rights and freedoms, especially freedom of expression. moreover, freedom of conscience is the foundation of human rights themselves.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank malin björk, who is a member of the left group, and diana riba, who is a candidate for the republics party, for the great work they have done on this report. gender-based violence is one of the greatest human rights violations in history, rooted in the patriarchal structure of societies and gender stereotypes and must be totally eradicated to be able to speak of equality. in recent years, cases of violence have increased, and we cannot forget, in addition, that covid-19 has significantly increased the number of aggressions. thanks to the feminist movement, equality and gender violence are in the spotlight, paying special attention, in addition, to disabled migrant women from minority groups and other vulnerable groups, from a multisectoral approach. i would also like to stress that gender-based violence manifests itself in many ways and that lack of access to sexual and reproductive health is also violence against women. we have to keep reporting each and every one of these assaults. it is vital that gender-based violence is included in the list of european crimes to be tackled jointly in the european union, because gender-based violence is also a pandemic.
the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. but we know that, after the debates, it is time to legislate and, to take steps forward, we must act through parliamentary majorities that cannot be appealed against; and this is what we all have to build today, beyond our political colours, our country, our language. today and tomorrow we have to vote to defend a higher good, which is our lives, the lives of every girl and woman in europe, and this should be above any difference or discrepancy. i would like to thank the co-rapporteur, malin björk, and also the alternative rapporteurs from the left, greens/efa, s&d and renew groups for their full cooperation, commitment and involvement in the adoption of this report. but i would like to address myself in particular to my colleagues in the epp group, who, in their legitimately critical position, have also made a decisive contribution to the preparation of this report. so i ask you to continue to fight together in this common struggle. comrades, what unites us is much greater than what divides us, and that is why i call on everyone to take responsibility for this crucial vote. we cannot end this debate without a heartfelt remembrance for all those girls and women who have been victims of femicide, the most atrocious expression of sexist violence, and also for all those who are suffering it today, now. we're here to tell you that you're not alone, that we're here for you and that we're gonna rise to the occasion. angela davis says that we should not accept the things we cannot change, but change the things we cannot accept. well, today we have the opportunity to say that we do not accept any more violence and that change has come.
mr president, a food system which leaves over 800 million people hungry and economically disadvantaged in the world and which, at the same time, causes forms of malnutrition such as overweight is a sick system. the fact that the farm to fork strategy takes this diagnosis and advocates a transition to sustainable food systems based on environmental, social and public health objectives is very good, but i point to three issues. firstly, food sovereignty is not compatible with the mining craze. we either grow food or we drill the earth. the right to food forces us to rethink the model of energy transition based on critical minerals. secondly, we have a predatory trade policy that props up agribusiness, drives out small farmers and deepens our ecological footprint. a sustainable food system cannot be reduced to a european corral, especially if we are dependent, as is the case, on imported food. finally, it is no use having a very demanding strategy with european producers if the imported products we consume do not meet the same requirements.
mr president, mr commissioner, there are many expectations placed on the un summit on food systems, but if i am honest with you, i have very few, and i will try to explain that in a minute. firstly, because the european union, despite being the world's leading exporter and importer of food, has recently shown that it lacks a real strategy to guarantee the principle of food safety. i know we have the green deal, the farm to fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, but the commission scientists in the jrc report warn bluntly that these policies will increase food insecurity and exodus in many rural areas of the european union because of higher costs and lower prices for the producer. and i ask myself: how is the european union going to guarantee food security if, as we are going, it is on its way to becoming a museum of agriculture? globally, we discuss the same issues every year. we have a responsibility to what is happening. the trade concessions granted by the european union to morocco have not only sunk part of our sector, but have also encouraged our moroccan neighbour to abandon production which is key to feeding his people and to concentrate on producing, in the northern parts of the country, high value-added products for export and for the benefit of only a few. and this is just one example. we are not complaining about europe's responsibility in the fight against climate change, but about the irrationality of our trade policy, which has harmful effects outside and within our borders. and i, from here, call on the un summit not to just praise the supposed benefits of agroecology, but to take seriously the new pests and diseases and to commit to innovation in agriculture through all the tools that biotechnology offers.
mr president, commissioner schmit, a little over a year and a half ago society was beginning to face its greatest challenge to date. the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on our economies and labour markets was challenging the strength of our welfare and social protection systems. we've managed to adapt and we're moving forward, in part because we've moved beyond the misguided conservative austerity policies, and we've moved towards a more social, more inclusive and more sustainable recovery that puts people at the center. however, this capacity for adaptation and resilience is not evenly distributed. socioeconomic conditions are a determining factor, as the covid-19 pandemic has shown us every day for the past year. this requires the collection of quality disaggregated data on the labour and social impact of the pandemic, ensuring that investments in national recovery and resilience plans contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the european pillar of social rights and, for example, the much-needed updating of the guidelines for member states' employment policies to better reflect the changing labour market reality that the pandemic has accentuated. for all these reasons and many more, we need progressive policy proposals, including legislative ones, to ensure a democratic, inclusive and socially just recovery. all employment must be based on equal rights, good working conditions and fair wages to eliminate workers' poverty and provide a decent standard of living. precariousness cannot be the basis for the jobs of tomorrow.
mr. president, we know the pandemic has had devastating consequences. the question now is whether we will take advantage of the recovery to fight the inequalities that have been accentuated during this year. if the answer is yes, we need more social justice with sufficient minimum wages, european unemployment insurance, the permanent suspension of the stability pact and social protection measures such as the erte in spain. more tax justice, ending tax havens and dumping between and within states, and supporting the 15% minimum corporate tax, something we have been saying for years. we also need to reduce gender gaps in wages, pensions and care provision, and we hope that the future european care strategy will help to close them. and finally, we need an ecological transition that really changes the way we produce and consume with more energy and food sovereignty and that is not a business for the usual. all of this is necessary if the answer is yes. if the answer is no, then we better go home.
madam chairman, let's focus a little bit of the debate on mr. aguilar's specific issues that definitely deserve attention. the united states is undoubtedly the european union's most important partner. this also applies to my country, the republic of bulgaria. they are a strategic partner. i don't need to explain exactly what the role of the movement for rights and freedoms is in reaffirming this strategic partnership in bulgaria through the euro-atlantic partnership and through bulgaria being part of the civilized space. but in this case, our partners have been deeply deceived, deceived by a circle of capital, led by oligarch ivo prokopyev. and let me tell you my reasons for that. first, the charges that have been brought against mr. peevski are completely unfounded. this is being proved by the bulgarian authorities every day, our parliamentary group is asking questions and getting the answers. second, a lot of the time certain lobbyists talk about their role in the process, even though as far as i know the process as such, they don't have a substantial role. third, one of the most influential figures in this circle, literally a few days, even a day before the sanctions were announced, said he expected good news from the united states, whatever that means. apparently this circle is very well informed and can afford to speak publicly to the bulgarian public the day before the official announcement of the sanctions. since we know the disclosure mechanism itself, and it's very limited, within washington, there's no way this information could have gotten out unless there were other lobbyists working the entire process. in closing, for two minutes i'm aware that i can't explain the whole problem, but let me tell you what's behind this oligarchic circle. it's a very interesting construction. it includes a strong media influence, a claim to absolute protection of human rights and freedoms and democratic values, a claim to liberalism in the bulgarian political space, but along with this there are also deviations, deviations that are related to non-governmental organizations. and most importantly, madam chairman, this circle participates in power without voting. and this is what prime minister boyko borisov says. in his first government there were six ministers who were appointed from this circle, well, they like that. mr. peevski doesn't like them because he's been exposing them for three years with the media, and we're going to keep doing it. i say this from this podium with the greatest responsibility. we will continue to communicate with our american partners and... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, madam commissioner, any excuse is good for attacking governments that are not to brussels' liking or for setting up mechanisms of control, supervision and sanctioning of member states. a national parliament may decide to pass laws to protect the innocence of children from the activism of gender ideology. it may be that some member states decide to protect their borders against the mass and illegal entry of immigrants. it may be that a national parliament decides that it does not want to ruin its businesses and families by destroying its car industry in the face of the insane demands of the green deal. it may be, as in this case, that the united states imposes sanctions on a number of citizens of a member state who have committed corruption offences. any excuse is good for interfering in the exclusive national competence and for imposing its ideological roll. today a spanish socialist member of parliament asks us: what approach will the commission take to combating corruption at national level? what role will the commission play in protecting the rule of law in the member states? i say to you, do nothing. respect national parliaments, governments and judges. that is what we must do, because if not, what would we do with the spanish government, which has been condemned for illegally confining 47 million spaniards by the constitutional court? do not do anything. respect the national institutions. the fight against corruption must be carried out - and hard - by the national prosecutors and courts, not by the commission. we are facing a new attempt at political interference and an abuse of power. i repeat what i said yesterday: it must be clear that the institutions of the union are at the service of the member states and their citizens, and not the other way around. master tolkien wouldn't rewrite a single comma in his trilogy: middle-earth is in danger; the eye of sauron from brussels is very much alive... but, you see, in middle-earth we only aspire to live in freedom, that our traditions and ancestral customs, our institutions and our freedoms are respected. it's just that. are you going to respect that or do you want to eliminate it directly?
madam president, instead of analyzing the actions of our strategic partner, let's focus on the real problem: corruption. what country would want to collaborate with corrupt europeans? of course the united states has its own reasons, but we have to understand that we will not achieve anything without eradicating corruption in all member states. corruption weakens us both internally and internationally. i am glad that yesterday president von der leyen underlined what i stand for with my colleagues in renew and in all groups: the monitoring of the rule of law must have precise indications and results, and corruption is a major obstacle. the time for speeches is over, our citizens want facts. there are member states that still have cvms, such as romania, others reject the jurisdiction of the european public prosecutor's office, such as hungary, and rule of law conditionality. uniform anti-corruption rules are needed. without something concrete, like uniform anti-corruption rules across the european union, we will not be able to really fight the phenomenon of corruption.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this debate made clear that the fight against corruption is a priority of this house. i would like to warmly thank you for your deep knowledge, your commitment and your clear values. corruption undermines our economy, society and the rule of law. we must fight corruption, especially now when we are mobilising public money for recovery and reforms. i hear mr lópez aguilar, ms yoncheva, ms in ‘t veld and many of you asking me and the commission to do more. i hear you and i agree. the commission does not have the competence nor the capacity to carry out criminal investigations, but the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) and the european anti-fraud office (olaf) have. in december last year, olaf recommended the recovery of eur 6 million due to abuse of power in the bulgarian ministry of interior. but the commission can also do more. we now have again an annual anti—corruption report, as part of the annual rule of law report, and one important step will be to make this rule of law mechanism sharper by introducing recommendations. i will also say to mr freund that of course the commission stands ready to support bulgaria or any member states to design and implement mechanisms to fight corruption and money-laundering, and to have proper safeguards for public prosecutions. in july, the commission proposed the setting up of a new anti-money laundering supervisor agency, and we will, of course, continue to prioritise the actions under the eu strategy to tackle organised crime. corruption in relation to the union budget is also to be investigated. as i said earlier, the european public prosecutor’s office is now in place. i would like to thank you again for this debate. i must say that, as long as corruption undermines the rule of law, we have not done enough. i’m glad to see once more that this house shows how strong an ally you are in the fight against corruption.
author. madam president, madam commissioner, today we are holding in this house the third debate on cuba as of 2021. the third! i would remind you that in each and every one of them the central theme of the debate has been the condemnation of the various forms of human rights violations by the cuban regime. this constant reflects the fact that the systematic violation of these rights is a state policy of the cuban communist regime. now, once again, with greater gravity, we see that the desperation of the cuban people was manifested last july. what happened at that moment was historic. cubans have taken to the streets in large numbers to protest, tired of the precariousness they suffer, to the cry of "freedom!" demanding their fundamental rights. unfortunately, instead of joining the peaceful dialogue that many in this house are calling for, the cuban government did not hesitate to use repression, persecution and the use of force in response to peaceful protests. although for some political groups the figures i am about to mention are not serious, for our group and for me personally they are a very painful consideration. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. among the persecuted, missing and detained, we could highlight the following names: the sájarov prize winner guillermo fariñas, recently released; josé daniel ferrer, president of unpacu, who is currently missing for more than two months; luis manuel otero alcántara, member of the san isidro movement, and maykel osorbo, author of the song patria y vida, artists whose only sin has been to express a desire for an element that is necessary in creativity: their freedom. in an effort to legalize the illicit and criminal, this cuban government has promulgated laws such as resolution 105 and decree law 35, which allow it to register homes and seize property, cancel the right to communications, fine and facilitate the initiation of criminal processes of people who disseminate news or messages with an impact on the prestige of the country, that violate social precepts or that promote social indiscipline. on the other hand, decree 370 severely penalizes the dissemination of information through the networks contrary to social interests, morality or good customs, a great gag to any information that does not interest the regime. finally, despite parliament's repeated requests for a visiting mission to the island, the cuban government has prevented this action, which is necessary to ascertain the facts and obtain first-hand, truthful and unfiltered information. do you really think that the cuban government has any interest in advancing freedom and democracy in its country, as it has committed itself to in the political dialogue and cooperation agreement with the european union? and i am not talking about after 60 years of this regime; i am referring very specifically to the commitment made to europe in december 2016. in other words, in five years they have not moved a bit towards respect for human rights and freedom through the development of democracy. this has never been on the cuban agenda. that is why we meps who support the cuban democrats cannot continue this mockery. the resolution we are proposing today goes one step further. on the one hand, we ask the european union to activate article 85 of the agreement in order to convene the joint council in this way, since we consider that, in view of all the above, we are facing an emergency situation, as stated in the agreement. and we call on the council to make use of the eu's magnitsky act and adopt sanctions against those responsible for serious human rights violations. i want to end by sending a message of support to all the victims of that regime, inside and outside the island. i would also like to remind you that the european union is based on the principle of respect for human rights, regardless of nationality.
madam president, the cuban people want change, they want a better life, a democratic and free cuba. they have every right to demonstrate peacefully, but instead of protecting their people, the regime has attacked, detained and mistreated them. europe should be supporting the cubans, but the response of the high representative remains the same as always: statements that we are concerned; we urge the cuban government to respect human rights... i want to ask the high representative and i want a concrete answer this time. what do you think has to happen for him to recognize that cuba is not complying with the agreement? what do you consider to be a breach of the essential elements of the agreement? what has to happen in cuba to punish human rights violators? the list of abuses of the regime grows every day, and with it the degree of distrust in the eu-cuba agreement. the european parliament has been clear for a long time: cuba is violating human rights and there must be consequences. it is time to suspend the agreement with cuba, it is time to punish human rights violators and to apply the european union's magnitsky act.
author. madam president, today this parliament has the opportunity to make good an immense and very long-standing affront to a people, a people that has been oppressed, tortured, deprived of all rights for 63 years, that has been thrown into the sea, eaten by sharks, that has had a large part of its population exiled, and that is still there, as an absolutely intolerable example of what has been, on the one hand, the condescension and, on the other hand, the direct complicity of the democracies that have allowed this anomaly, this absolute anomaly that is cuba, to continue and to remain there. the time has come to denounce an agreement which was unjust when it was made and which is absolutely unbearable today, when, five years later, we all know that they have not the slightest intention of fulfilling anything it says and that the only thing it serves is to subsidize the communist mafia that runs that party, which lives with a life of privileges and luxuries while having the country - which was the fourth richest country in america - lying in poverty, at the same level as haiti and its province, venezuela, that they invaded with the agreement with chávez and that they have turned into another well of misery, torture and pain. because, with its complicity, cuba is not only crushing its own people, cuba is also promoting misery, pain, destabilization and subversion throughout the continent. it is time to say that the clause suspending that agreement must be applied, which, as i say, has only brought privileges, greater privileges and more money for the mafia that governs cuba at the moment. we must tell the high representative and a number of parties who continue to support this dictatorship here that the position they have adopted after 11 july is intolerable, when cubans took to the streets to defend their dignity, their right to freedom, their right to democracy - as we all have and as we demand for ourselves - while some people want cuba to remain a socialist reserve so that a number of figures from the european intellectual left can go and do tourism - the tourism of the ideal. that's a disgrace and it has to stop. so please vote in favour of this resolution so that some justice is finally done to the cubans.
author. madam president, first of all, when we talk about cuba, we must respect the right of the protesters to express their opinion and to demand that the cuban authorities listen to their legitimate demands. human rights must be respected everywhere, always, including in cuba, and violations must be denounced, if they exist, as they have been when the right to protest and demonstrate was not respected. secondly, this parliament must learn, when it speaks of cuba or anywhere else, but especially when it speaks of human rights, to be coherent and proportionate. consistent and proportionate with what it says about human rights everywhere in the world. we're talking about new very relevant demonstrations in cuba, the most important since 94, since the maleconazo. that's right, i did. in the last few years we have had very important demonstrations in latin america. in fact, there was one death in these demonstrations we talked about, in cuba. we have had cases of countries with dozens of dead, cases of countries with dozens of eyes lost. this parliament has not even wanted to talk about it. and it must also be consistent with what is done in the european union's foreign policy, consistent so as not to be used for ideological purposes. i say this because the views and the policy expressed by the high representative are unanimously agreed with a council of 27 member states, with ministers from two parties present here. and then they sometimes go a long way from what is advocated here. proportionality and consistency. thirdly, we want to support the necessary reforms in the country without interference. democratic reforms, reforms in terms of economic openness. but that can only be done by respecting and protecting the political dialogue and cooperation agreement which this parliament adopted by an overwhelming majority not many years ago - in a similar situation on the island, after twenty years of diplomatic blockade, of a common position which has led to no results. and of course, the shortage in the country is a fundamental problem. and for that, we must talk about the blockade imposed by the united states, which cannot hide what is happening in the country, but which has a huge, huge impact on the lives of cuban citizens.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, i regret that some of my colleagues here today want to use the debate on cuba for their own national political interest. we should not forget that the eu is not there to give lessons, we should work together with our partners in a mutually respectful way to protect human rights, democracy and freedom of expression. the eu-cuba political dialogue and cooperation agreement forms the basis of this cooperation. i very much support the constructive but critical approach taken by the high representative and the eeas. at this time more than ever, it’s important to keep the channels of dialogue open to support cuba in the challenges the country is facing. in july, we saw the largest demonstrations in cuba since the uprising in 1994. numerous protesters have been detained, including journalists, and some are held incommunicado. i urge the cuban government to immediately and unconditionally release all those detained for the exercise of their freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. i also deeply regret the death of at least one protester, and i call for an independent investigation into the case and that those responsible are held accountable. the protests in july came in the context of a difficult economic situation on the island. the us embargo against the country has deepened the economic crisis and restricted access to food, water, medicine and power. the situation was made even worse by the covid-19 pandemic, which has had a devastating effect on the country’s tourism industry. a combination of all these factors created an increased demand for civil and political rights in the country. to find a way out of this crisis, i ask the cuban authorities to do their utmost to ensure that economic, social and cultural rights of the cuban people are met and i invite them to engage in an inclusive national dialogue towards a process of modernisation and democratisation of the country. the covid-19 pandemic has been particularly difficult in the last months in cuba and i must acknowledge that, despite the difficult economic situation in the country, cuba has managed to develop their own vaccines and they have been able to send doctors abroad who greatly have contributed during the pandemic. it is clear that the unilateral us sanctions have a damaging impact on the cuban people, but they also have a negative effect on eu’s economic interests. i had hopes that the new us administration with joe biden as president would create a window of opportunity to improve the us-cuba relations, but so far i have been mistaken. i end my speech today by really saying again: they should end the us embargo!
author. madam president, the human rights of the cuban people have been violated constantly since the united states imposed a criminal blockade more than 60 years ago, limiting and almost eliminating access to their basic goods. in 1960, president eisenhower's secretary of state said that to overthrow castro, the cuban people had to be suffocated. obviously, for the promoters of this debate, the rights of the cuban people are the least important. like good stewards, they seek to please their boss by trying to overthrow a government that is serving not only their people but other people around the world, and that does not obey orders from the empire. you are telling a fictional story in which you denounce a brutal repression against peaceful protesters. they talk about arbitrary arrests, disappearances, torture and i don't know how many other things. it sounds like they're talking about colombia, guatemala or honduras. but you guys don't talk about those, do you? do you not find it strange that, in the face of such brutal repression, there are no images of the cuban police repressing the protesters and that, in order to try to assemble their story, their media friends have had to resort to images from egypt, argentina or catalonia? unlike other countries in the region, the rights of all detainees are respected in cuba. there are no missing persons, no extrajudicial killings, no false positives, and no crematories. you ask uribe what i'm talking about. moreover, the opposition is free to express itself and, like any citizen, is only prosecuted when it violates the legislation in force. this is what happens in all democratic states of law, right? perhaps you hope that the cuban government will let a group of criminals take advantage of peaceful protests to loot shops and attack police stations or hospitals. i repeat, in what democratic state of law is this allowed to happen? doing this in europe is considered terrorism. at this point i do not expect you to respect the sovereignty of this example of dignity which is the cuban people. i would be happy if you would stop bringing this parliament into disgrace. finally, i would like to say to the cuban people that you are not alone, that we are with you, that we send you our love and our solidarity, and that we will be with you until victory, always.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the protests last july, the cuban regime has been trying to eliminate the last vestige of freedom left on the island. it is no surprise that communism is incompatible with freedom, but the havana government has redoubled its efforts in recent months to demonstrate this: state repression has skyrocketed with hundreds of illegal arrests, beatings, torture and disproportionate use of force against opponents. in addition, after making numerous internet cuts to prevent cubans from communicating freely, the government has passed decree law 35. it is a telecommunications law that curbs freedom of expression and aims to criminalize the opinions of dissidents on the net. but the havana regime does not tolerate freedom even on this side of the atlantic. a little over a month ago, the cuban dictatorship sent saboteurs on a salary to blow up a peaceful demonstration we organized in brussels in favor of a free cuba. and in the face of all this, the european union has unfortunately responded with lukewarmness and hesitation. the fact that we are simply showing our deep concern, as mr borrell has said, is not only useless, it is turning us into a caricature, into a powerless power. the european union and the spanish people in particular have a moral commitment to the cuban people and we cannot stand by idly in the face of this situation. the sooner we assume that the cuban government has no real interest in dialogue, the sooner we can act. what we urgently need are sanctions. sanctions against the tyrants who are subjugating the cuban people with total impunity. we need and can go to the island, as we have repeatedly asked from the european people's party, to examine the reality firsthand and to denounce the abuses that are taking place. we must, in short, accompany our deep concern with effective action.
madam president, a one-party system in the 21st century is a historical anomaly, it is an antiquated and it is an undemocratic system. as the european union has among its functions to promote democracy, we have to be very critical of that political system in order to protect citizens and try to help bring about peaceful change. to respect the rights of citizens, think what you think. being counterrevolutionary is a right, as being one, and therefore a right to think, to have opinions and to express oneself peacefully, and the authorities are expected to protect those rights. to have sent citizens against each other in the street is a tremendous irresponsibility. so let us keep a critical view of the system and a protective view of the citizens. what instruments? our big debate is over. we believe that the political dialogue agreement is still the best way of dealing with this situation, but we do not want to put it in a furnace and make it useless, but to use all its mechanisms. for example, decree 35 and resolution 105 must now be put on the agenda of the european union's forthcoming dialogue with cuba on human rights. and the embargo has to be lifted, not just because the embargo is obviously unfair, but because it's the regime's great alibi to create the sense of a besieged society and a besieged country that has to defend itself from enemies all around it. we must therefore maintain a critical dialogue on cuba with the united states, and the united states and the european union must help to bring about changes for the cuban people much sooner and much more profoundly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to address the social democrats, the greens and the left in general today, and ask them to open their eyes once and for all and to accept and see what is really happening in cuba. a few months ago, diaz-canel acted forcefully, in an absolutely repressive manner against his own people. a form of repression unknown for decades. political leaders, such as josé daniel ferrer, have been missing for more than two months and hundreds of politicians are still being kidnapped. and in the face of that situation, gentlemen of the benches i mentioned earlier, you still do not support the majority of this house in demanding change on the island. the cubans have no food, the cubans have no medicine. the cubans are literally having their houses fall on their heads and you still do not support the majority resolutions of this house. what more do you need to wait for? it's time to act to prevent suffering. what more do you want the cuban people to suffer under this dictatorial regime? we have promoted and supported numerous sanctions against dictators in latin america, and also, even, in belarus. what more do you need? cuba will change. cuba will be free, despite even some efforts by some members of these benches; and that change will not prevent it. so i call on you to open your eyes once and for all, to support freedom because you have no more excuses.
madam president, commissioner, europe has a choice: either we are an independent actor in the world, reducing the tension of the dangerous bloc policy, or we join it. i think that both this parliament and the commission are clear that we want to design and pursue our own overall strategy to strengthen the multilateral order. but the right, especially the spanish right, seems to forget this when it comes to our relations with countries like cuba. the s&d group is consistent. we condemn human rights abuses no matter which country we are talking about. the right, on the other hand, prevents us from discussing in this parliament the violations of human rights in latin american countries with conservative governments. the s&d group is also responsible for europe's political position in the world. we support the political dialogue and cooperation agreement which was approved in this parliament with 85% support. it is a framework that allows us to contribute to the political, economic and social development in cuba. the epp now seems to prefer to overthrow it and isolate cuba. isolating cuba has never been a useful strategy. look at what the us blockade is doing: scapegoating the cuban government. europe must be there to help the societies of the world, not to hinder their development. by helping, we can surely contribute to improving human rights. what about iceland? i'm sure you didn't.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for your intervention and this debate that i am taking on behalf of high representative / vice-president borrell today. since the first round of our human rights dialogue in 2013, we have addressed areas of concern with the united arab emirates. we have seen improvements when it comes, for example, to gender issues and religious tolerance, but nonetheless, concerns remain in a number of areas and on some individual cases which we continue to raise with the emirati authorities. ahmed mansoor is one of these cases which we have been actively following, both from brussels as well as via our delegation in abu dhabi. we regularly seek clarifications from the emirati authorities on his situation, his health and his access to medical treatment. in doing so, we have constantly reiterated the eu’s principled position in support of human rights defenders and freedom of expression in line with the eu guidelines. following the confirmation of mansoor’s 10-year sentence in december 2018, the eu stressed publicly that no one should be detained for peacefully expressing his or her opinions. at the most recent dialogue held on 9 june, the eu again stressed the importance of accountability and respect for the un mandela rules. we also encouraged the emirati authorities to consider acceding to core un human rights treaties and to invite un special procedures. the meeting also allowed raising individual cases, including that of ahmed mansoor. in the same vein, and in the context of the covid pandemic, the eu special representative for human rights raised the cases of imprisoned activists with emirati authorities, pleading for their release, even on humanitarian grounds. the intensification of overall eu engagement with the united arab emirates in the past year should lead to an improvement of the country’s human rights situation. we have already started sharing eu expertise in specific human rights-related domains. we also look forward to engaging with the united arab emirates on its national action plan for human rights, which is under preparation. the eu will remain actively engaged on human rights and human rights defenders in the united arab emirates. the envisaged missions of high representative / vice-president borrell will offer an additional opportunity to stress the importance of civil and political rights in the country. we will continue to follow closely and raise the case of ahmed mansoor. we will do this in a spirit of partnership but remain steadfast in our principles and expectations.
author. – madam president, kenya’s kakuma camp is currently a permanent home to more than 200 000 refugees and asylum seekers, coming mainly from the border regions plagued by conflict and growing instability. the camp provides a safe haven for many people forcibly displaced from their countries as a result of persecution, human rights violations, conflict, etc. it has notably served as a place of refuge to many members of the lgbtiq+ community, who may face the death penalty in their own countries – an appalling vista in this day and age. however, in kakuma, temporary living circumstances have morphed into permanent ones, with no mechanism for review or change. with appalling living conditions, substandard housing, poor roads, inadequate water and poor sanitation, the camp is not a sustainable long-term solution to the displacement of people, nor was it ever meant to be. the kenyan government has made several attempts in recent years to close the camp. however, with various solutions pursued, it is essential that protection services for asylum seekers and refugees are provided. it is essential that protection services for asylum seekers and human rights are upheld. failure to establish and follow a carefully planned roadmap to closure would lead to an all-out humanitarian disaster. following a two-week ultimatum from the kenyan government to the unhcr, kenya has formally committed to closing the camp by june 2022. the government plans to voluntarily integrate refugees back into their countries of origin in safety and dignity. however, in doing so, the root cause of this displacement needs to be addressed, and that is the crisis and conflict in the region. the eu must recommit to prioritising timely conflict prevention, mediation and dialogue on the continent. cooperation between kenya and its neighbouring countries needs to be reinforced on political, security, humanitarian and development issues. in 2022, the eu has allocated eur 14 million in funding for humanitarian projects in kenya, mainly for assisting refugees. other eu resources that support kenya, such as the european development fund and the eu emergency trust fund for africa, need to be focused on development objectives. the implementation of a roadmap on the next steps to ensure the humane management of refugees from the camp is vital. however, the bigger issue of regional stability must be dealt with urgently. i urge the eu to step up its efforts as a mediating partner in support of sustainable and long-term socio-economic development in the region. cooperation on peace and security challenges is an essential aspect of the relationship between the eu and africa.
author. madam president, kyazike reginah, a resident of kakuma refugee camp, was among the people in block 13 who were first awakened from their sleep by the sound of gunfire on 16 august. an hour later, the flames, the smell of fire and gasoline, woke them up again in this camp, block 13. the next day, realizing that they had nowhere to go, no shelter, no protection, while the criminals were roaming free, they decided unanimously, with 25 children, to make the three-hour journey to a police station. but at the police station, the refugees were met by police officers armed with rifles and tear gas. this attack on refugees, and particularly lgbt refugees in kakuma camp, is unfortunately not the only one. these people are being attacked every day, hundreds of them last year. the human rights situation in general, but particularly that of lgbt people, is deplorable in kakuma camp. this resolution does indeed call on the kenyan authorities to respect freedom of opinion and expression, and recalls their obligation to do so, but also to protect refugees and particularly lgbt refugees. but this resolution also calls for the european union to share its responsibility, namely that it can give humanitarian protection to these people when they ask the european union to do so.
author. – madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, may i have your attention, because what we are discussing here today is really awful. today, at this very moment, around 300 lgbtiq refugees are staying in kakuma camp in kenya. they fled their african countries and homes. they fled because, according to the ruling laws, they love somebody they cannot love. they fled to a country where they hoped to find safety. but nothing could be further from the truth. aside from the fact that as many as 195 000 refugees are stacked together in the most inhumane and horrible circumstances, lgbtiq people are also confronted with homophobia, stigmatisation, discrimination and violence, including bombs and fires. it is incredible that in 2021, this still exists! for me and maria arena, love is love. these people find themselves back in exactly the same situation as they did before, when they wanted to escape: one of fear and humiliation, one without freedom, one where love is banished once more. for a long time, they have been hoping for resettlement to europe, the united states or canada. unfortunately, without any result. here today we must give them a new future. so i ask you, and encourage the government, to bring the offenders to justice, bring lgbtiq refugees to safety in cooperation with the un refugee agency (unhcr), and to the dialogue with african countries, so that this stops. let love win, colleagues.
the situation in kakuma and also in dadaab in kenya is a tragic and urgent situation, which is why we are joining this resolution. i am sorry to say that i think we are always falling short of the european union's real responsibilities. unfortunately, this resolution is an example of that. we have called for the kakuma and dadaab camps to be maintained, but at the same time we have failed to ensure the resettlement of refugees. yes, the european union and the member states can do more about this. we have, well, called for the human rights of refugees to be guaranteed, we have, well, called for the human rights of the most vulnerable, particularly the lgbtq+ population, to be guaranteed, but we have not done enough to prevent conflict or to address the real causes of conflict. i therefore regret that this resolution does not appeal to those responsibilities. we know that there are many countries in the european union, in particular four of them, which are conducting military operations in the region and thus contributing to the conflicts. we have tried many times to introduce into these resolutions a basic issue such as the call for an end to the export of arms to the conflict regions and we have failed to do so. and again, it's not in this resolution. we therefore call for these issues to be looked at not just from one side but from both sides, and also from the side of our responsibility. the export of arms to the region, to ethiopia, to south sudan, to somalia, always contributes to destabilization and to these conflicts which lead people to be in refugee camps. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that in the next resolution we will not only look at external responsibilities, but that we will also take on our full responsibilities.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nairobi's intention to close the kakuma and dadaab refugee camps once and for all could have disastrous consequences for the more than 400 000 men, women and children who are housed there. this is a possibility that rightly terrifies us, but we cannot wake up only when the situation is about to explode. the camps have been there for almost 30 years: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights for the last thirty years, during which hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to live in hellish conditions, and hell, my dear colleagues, is 'the state of those who have given up hope', as the scottish writer archibald cronin put it in the middle of the last century. for too long the international community has been silent on the plight of refugees and their uneven geographical distribution, with 80% of them in developing countries. it is time to reverse this trend and step up our efforts so that millions of people around the world can regain hope for a future of dignity far from the refugee camps. to be a champion of human rights means to work to alleviate the suffering of the world's last. as long as we remain silent in the face of 30 years of kakuma and dadaab, we cannot really take credit for this title.
madam president, commissioner, the kakuma refugee camp, the third largest in the world, hosts asylum seekers from 20 different nationalities who arrive there. many have lived there for years and years with no solution in sight to return or to resettle outside the camp to start a new life. it is in this kenyan camp that in recent months there have been repeated attacks on minorities, threatening their safety, dignity and freedom, which are already so limited by the walls of the refugee reception centre. violence in kakuma camp has increased exponentially with the covid-19 pandemic and homophobic attacks are becoming more frequent. a refugee was murdered in april of this year. since that month, the camp has been under threat of closure by kenyan authorities, leaving the refugees with a huge degree of anxiety and uncertainty about their future. it is essential to ensure that the kenyan authorities guarantee the safety, dignity and protection of the lives of the refugees they host in this camp, for which they have been receiving funding from the european union since 2012. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. we therefore count on the kenyan authorities to uphold the commitments made in the cotonou agreement and also in the african charter to protect the rights, freedoms and guarantees of refugees in search of a better and dignified life. the freedom and guarantees which we cannot allow to be jeopardized again in the refugee camp, after having been forced to flee by war, hunger and various forms of persecution in neighbouring countries.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate, which i take on behalf of the high representative vice-president borrell. kenya is a key partner of the european union and a pillar of stability in a troubled east africa. president of the european council, charles michel, and president kenyatta decided in june last year to further deepen eu—kenya relations by launching a strategic dialogue on issues and agendas of common interest. the eu and kenya share common values and principles, and the eu recognises and appreciates kenya’s long history of hosting hundreds of thousands of refugees and providing protection to those fleeing persecution, conflict and other forms of insecurity. the eu recognises the challenge faced by the kenyan authorities in hosting a large number of refugees and shares the understanding that, for many refugees, the best durable solution will be a voluntary and sustainable return to their home country. still, the announced closure of kakuma and other refugee camps in kenya is a matter of great concern, for two main reasons: because the security situation in many parts of south sudan and somalia, where most refugees living in kakuma come from, does not seem conducive to their safe return, and because it’s essential to avoid massive secondary displacement or further destabilisation in the region. we are confident in kenya’s will to continue to uphold its international commitments as it faces this challenging moment. keeping open the right to seek asylum in kenya is essential and the resumption of the registration of new asylum seekers is a positive sign. however, it’s important to give refugees access to basic services and enable them to live safe and productive lives. it’s also essential to protect refugees’ rights, including of those belonging to vulnerable groups, such as unaccompanied minors and lgbtiq+, which many of you have raised here in the debate in a very good way. on the attacks against lgbtiq+ refugees, i can tell you that the eeas has closely monitored last spring’s incidents and the response given by the kenyan authorities and the unhcr. we are consulting partners on the existing challenges for lgbtiq+ persons and exploring possible additional measures for their protection. together with unhcr and international partners, the eu will continue seeking orderly and sustainable solutions that respect refugees’ rights. we will also see how we can step up on resettlement, which was also mentioned by many of you. on 9 july this year, i hosted a high—level resettlement forum where the eu, together with the us and canada, agreed to step up on our ambitions to give protections to refugees through the unhcr resettlement scheme. moreover, we will continue supporting the government of kenya in providing protection and assistance to refugees in the country, as well as funding development oriented projects targeting refugees and host communities. we will also continue supporting countries of origin in creating conditions for the sustainable return and reintegration of refugees.
i also have one announcement. the non-attached members have notified me of the decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement. (the sitting was suspended at 13.05)
i will now move to the second voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 13.45 until 15.00. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare the second voting session open. you have until 15.00 to vote. the results of the second voting session will be announced at 16.30. (the session was suspended at 13.46)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on transparency in the eu as regards the development, purchase and distribution of covid-19 vaccines by dolors montserrat on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000046/2021 b9-0033/21) [2021/2678 (rsp) ].
author. mr president, as chair of the committee on petitions, i would like to put the committee's oral question on the full transparency of the european union's covid vaccine strategy. from the outset, parliament has closely followed the process of vaccine research and development. he has repeatedly stressed the need for citizens to have confidence in vaccines and the importance of fighting misinformation. meanwhile, the committee on petitions has received several petitions on the strategy, one of them pointing to the lack of transparency in the agreements on covid19 vaccines that the european commission signed with pharmaceutical companies. lack of transparency has fueled uncertainty and misinformation about covid-19 vaccines. the public has a right to know the details of contracts and the results of clinical research. transparency in vaccine development, procurement and distribution is necessary to address the covid pandemic and is a prerequisite to stimulate and maintain public confidence in vaccines, end vaccine nationalism and ensure the legitimacy of the european union's joint health procurement. the commission and the member states have legally restricted the publication of details of vaccine contracts with pharmaceutical companies. this has happened despite the fact that the european union and the member states have publicly funded much of the research into vaccination, covering the initial costs of vaccine manufacturers, and granted emergency authorisations. in this context, public health must be given greater priority. in addition, parliament can hardly exercise its budgetary control duty without full access to vaccine purchase contracts. in this context, the committee on petitions asks the european commission the following questions: when will the commission publish all details of the vaccine contracts, in particular as regards the sharing of costs between the public and private investors of the vaccines, the number of doses allocated to each country and what have been the deliveries per quarter and also to future quarters, the prices per dose of vaccines, the number and location of available production facilities, agreements on intellectual property rights, technology transfer and liability and compensation schemes for any damage that may be caused by vaccines? what will the commission do to ensure that the results of clinical trials and protocols of potential vaccines against covid19 are published in a timely and clear manner in order to reduce vaccine doubts and counter misinformation? will the commission carry out and publish an evaluation of the european union covid-19 vaccine strategy, reviewing all elements in detail and making recommendations on the framework for future eu joint procurement, especially in relation to transparency?
in the name of the s&d group, i would like to say that europe is beginning to put the hardest months of this pandemic behind it, and this is happening, without any doubt, thanks to the spread of vaccination and the responsibility shown by the vast majority of european citizens, who have invested all their hopes in a vaccination process that is making history and has succeeded in immunising more than 70% of the population of the european union, as the commissioner said. i think it is important to start by praising this excellent level of immunization and congratulating the health professionals and authorities of the member states on the excellent data. but celebrating this success is not incompatible with the proper exercise of our political and institutional responsibilities and, in line with this, we are debating today the mistakes made - whether intentional or not - such as the lack of transparency and opacity in access to information on the process of vaccine procurement and distribution, both by the european commission and by the pharmaceutical companies, because we cannot ignore that part of the miracle of these vaccines has been achieved thanks to the large investments of public money advanced by the european union to companies that have barely taken risks. europeans therefore have a right to know how their money has been spent. how is it that at this point we still don't know how much vaccines have cost us? how is it that european citizens still do not know the terms of the contracts negotiated with the pharmaceutical companies? it is difficult to answer citizens who come to parliament with requests for transparency on this subject, and we can only give them the answer when they ask for more information. this is especially serious, and more so knowing that, with everyone's money, some pharmaceutical companies have broken delivery commitments, causing vaccine delays, uncertainty and mistrust. i do not think that we should now be arguing that a right, which has already been recognised by the court of justice of the european union itself, namely the right to health protection, takes precedence over other economic considerations. i do not think that this parliament should now denounce the limitations to which we have been subjected in our control tasks in the management and implementation of the funds allocated to vaccination. and it's also easy to draw another important conclusion in the face of lack of information and lack of transparency: fake news, misinformation has spread far and wide, and that, in the end, has an impact on the vaccination process. even today, health authorities have to make an effort to make certain citizens understand that getting vaccinated is the best option to beat the virus. while the european average is good, this is achieved thanks to countries with excellent vaccination rates, such as malta, portugal or spain, where, together with other countries, we far exceed the european average of immunized population. but it is no less true that in some countries, such as bulgaria and romania, they are only 18% and 27% respectively. these latest figures show that many citizens of the union are choosing not to be vaccinated and, in many cases, they are doing so because of the distrust that has been generated and which i am mentioning. this could have been avoided if, from the outset of the negotiations with the pharmaceutical companies, the greatest possible transparency had been offered. we are therefore asking for information on the conditions under which the contracts with the pharmaceutical companies were concluded and what the implications are. it is information which not only the citizens deserve to know, but also this house, in which we are debating this matter today. in this process, the european commission has forgotten that the european parliament has a mandate under the treaties to monitor the european budget, a role which has been seriously hampered by the lack of data. the european commission cannot again respond with opacity to a situation of this magnitude. it is necessary that this house be a key player in future negotiation processes and that we do not become 'guests of stone', as we have been so far.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, while we should certainly be pleased with the rate of vaccination in europe, it is inevitable to compare it with the rate of vaccination in the impoverished countries, which is clearly insufficient to stop the pandemic. the question i think we have to ask ourselves is whether we are doing everything possible from the countries with the most resources to solve a situation that affects us all the world's population. i think the answer is no. just yesterday, ursula von der leyen came to this podium to tell us that the most serious epidemic in recent history is being solved with charity: a few million doses to silence our conscience and think that europe is complying. however, we believe that this should be a matter not of charity but of justice; not a business for the pharmaceutical industry, but a fair sharing of knowledge. that is why we continue to demand that, in order to deal with this situation, to spread vaccines around the world in the fastest and most efficient way, we should push for the abolition of patents, as this parliament approved in june. but to do that, we should know where we stand. yesterday the president of the commission insisted that everything was going very well, but she forgot to say how the health care system with astrazeneca had ended and, above all, how much it had cost us. and we've been through all the moods with the pharmaceutical companies, that's right, without being able to credit a single paper. we went from euphoria because we were being saved, to disillusionment because we were being extorted. but months later, there's one thing that hasn't changed. we still have no guarantees of transparency to check how, how much and what public resources are being spent on. transparency is a principle of democratic guarantee which has unfortunately not been respected in this case, and this has allowed a resource which should be available to guarantee everyone's rights to end up being the business... (the president withdraws the speaker).
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, new technologies often bring enormous opportunities and benefits. but at the same time, we also see often that they provide new avenues for organised crime. it was true for the internet, it is certainly also true for artificial intelligence and machine learning. and at the same time, these technologies can also help us to have huge potential in helping the 1.5 million police officers in the eu to effectively fight crime. they can help in identifying criminals on the run. they can help forecasting criminal activity, and they can help us in finding counterfeit goods and currencies. and we need to look at that potential with an open mind and avoid a situation where criminals profit from ai but law enforcement cannot use it to fight them. yes, there are risks involved, and good safeguards absolutely need to be in place. ai needs to be transparent and trustworthy, and we need to make sure that using ai in the field of law enforcement will never compromise our values. but let’s also not be naive. let’s not make the mistake to only focus on the risks and ignore completely the potential. several colleagues have said it already: ai is here to stay, and its use will only grow in the coming years. and we only have to look at some countries outside the european union to see what we should not be doing. we need a balanced approach. we need a european approach, because innovation is in our european dna, as is our ability to create artificial intelligence in a trustworthy, human-centred and valued-based way. let that be our european trademark in the world, also for law enforcement applications.
mr president, i should first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on his report, which i believe is absolutely balanced and in line with what this parliament has already said on a number of occasions. we must indeed strike a balance between the risk to the protection of rights and, of course, technological development which will make it easier for us to achieve social objectives in some way. but we are faced with a matter which directly affects fundamental rights. several of them are involved in the legal development of this technology, or in the legal framework governing this technology, and at the same time social peace is also at stake when we talk about issues affecting security and the established order itself and the rules by which we govern ourselves. the point is that some of the realities that science fiction has anticipated in the past - some of them are already a reality today in terms of technological development - do not become a kind of dystopia in our times of those approaches of films like minority report, where the police anticipate even the commission of the crime or the manifested intention because they are able to foresee through technologies such as these the possible commission of a crime; or, without going further, that we will one day have these robot judges who somehow also had the delights of some french revolutionaries when they said that from the mouth of the law, seeking an alleged impartiality in the expression of the people's justice. but at the same time, we also have to avoid that there are barriers to the development of tools that can actually make us achieve some of the goals that can make our societies better -- certainly in the realm of the administration of justice itself, but also as a support tool for our own security forces. we cannot ignore these possibilities that artificial intelligence gives and hinder its development. that is why i also want to support this report, which i think is perfectly in line - and this is something i would like to remind some of my colleagues of - with the approach adopted by this parliament almost a year ago - a subject on which i was rapporteur, moreover - which dealt with ethics applied to artificial intelligence technologies and which i think went in the same direction, trying to avoid scenarios that are not desirable, but also trying at the same time not to hinder. ladies and gentlemen, this report cannot open the door completely and let everyone go their own way and at the same time be as intrusive as other colleagues have denounced. i think that this is a report which finds the middle ground, which raises very interesting questions.
mr president, there is no doubt that artificial intelligence is a strategic technology of the 21st century and that this technology has a place in the field of criminal justice and law enforcement as well. today there are forms of crime which can only be tackled with the effectiveness we want if we make innovative technological tools available to the law enforcement agencies and the courts. think of money laundering, terrorist financing, the proliferation of terrorist content online, human trafficking by immigration mafias or for sexual or labour exploitation, or the proliferation of child sexual abuse content, which requires work to identify victims and identify perpetrators and the places where the abuses have been committed and which tests the psychological resilience of those who have to do this identification work. it is true that algorithms need to be improved and that their risks require that their use be surrounded by great safeguards. but i am not in favour of absolute bans, but rather of guarantees such as those provided for in the amendments tabled by my group in relation to prior judicial authorization. we must provide an environment that facilitates the development of artificial intelligence, including in those areas that can be described as 'high risk', with the appropriate safeguards. and let me say, when you talk about examples from other cities or other countries, it seems to me that the racial biases in these cases are not exactly in the algorithms.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, it is a source of pride to see how this house, little by little, but without pause, is dealing with the causes and consequences of this scourge of gender-based violence in greater depth. as we have made clear in the report we voted on today, violence does not only affect women but also has a profound impact on the lives of children, sometimes even taking them away. the text is therefore clear: it is important that legislation considers as victims of gender-based violence those children who have witnessed violence within the couple or who have suffered vicarious violence. we need the european union and its member states to legislate in this respect and to guarantee the rights and best interests of children, so that they are protected in all situations and in all places. unfortunately, this is not always the case today and there is a great disparity in policies and legislation across the union. last but not least, the report we are voting on today makes it clear that cases of domestic violence must be taken into account when determining custody rights and visitation arrangements. and this is crucial -- let's be clear -- because an abuser will never be a good father.
mr. president, a bully is never, i insist, never a good father. so it is surprising that when women report violence against themselves or their children, the abusive parents are given sole custody. it is surprising that children who suffer violence are not heard and are assumed to be manipulated by their mothers, despite having medical and psychosocial reports that prove otherwise. in spain, between 2013 and 2021, 42 children were killed by their abusive parents with the sole purpose of sinking their mothers. parental alienation syndrome is a sickening charade. we must ratify and implement the istanbul convention; accept that gender-based violence is a crime; articulate a framework directive on this issue; oblige states to transpose and implement the directive on the rights of victims; improve cooperation in cross-border cases; encourage research and obtain funding, among other things, to combat the denialism of those who claim to defend the family. this is defending the family. enough of the hypocrisy and the false christian morality.
mr president, commissioner, according to the european union agency for fundamental rights, 73% of mothers who are victims of physical or sexual violence by their partners say that at least one of their children was aware of the violence. violence which is a serious social problem, which creates physical and psychological trauma in the victims and which is undoubtedly a disgrace for all of us as a society. we know that a bully is not a good father. that is why we must move forward with the withdrawal of custody and visitation rights in such cases. in spain, the socialist party pushed for a reform of the civil code that was approved last may and has been effective since this september. and in europe we must recognise gender-based violence as a crime and we must establish cooperation between member states and minimum standards to combat gender-based violence against women and to protect the sons and daughters of victims of such violence. because it is their right, it is their future and it must be our future too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said that if there are 87 million disabled people in the european union and only 1% of the petitions we are debating here in this parliament concern disabled people, does that mean that everything is fine? no, it means we're not doing everything right. and there have been many deficiencies that highlight the enormous inequalities that people with some kind of disability still suffer. and the report of the committee on petitions is very, very explicit: to ensure compliance with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. and with this report - by the way, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done - we want to exercise that responsibility by playing the role that the european parliament and the other institutions have to play, by opening ourselves up to the rest of the citizens, by facilitating sign language, by facilitating accessibility measures for people who contact us and, above all, by guaranteeing the rights of disabled people, which, today, in the 21st century, are still not fulfilled. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur and also encourage the european commission to exercise its responsibilities and commitments here.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner dalli, every year some 22 700 people are killed and 120 000 seriously injured on europe's roads. the commitment of my s&d group to the 'vision zero' objective is firm, and to achieve it requires a clear commitment to investment in road safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road network is not affected by the accident. it's the key to reducing road fatalities. but we also need mobility plans that embrace safer and more sustainable transport models, like public transport, and that support active mobility. it is essential to address practices that have intensified with the pandemic, such as the increase in delivery workers, whose safety and health should be guaranteed from a european framework, or the increase in new micromobility devices, such as skateboards and electric bicycles, whose use should also be regulated, as well as enabling parking areas that prevent them from obstructing the public road. as you can see, this report proposes ambitious measures and i therefore expect the commission to study it carefully.
mr president, so far we have been hearing figures and numbers, but i want to talk to you, in this case, about people and a specific name: that of paula torrens, a girl who was hit by a car in mallorca in 2018 by a person who did not have a driving licence, who was drunk and who also ran away. and like paula, there are over 2,500 people who die every year as a result of people driving a vehicle and driving under the influence of alcohol. and that is precisely why the institutions must coordinate in all institutional areas, so that this does not happen and does not happen again. we are seeing how in countries such as austria, belgium and france, mechanisms with anti-start devices are being put into operation; and in spain, thanks to ciudadanos, this will also be able to be put into operation shortly. and we see this now with the case of hauliers, but we should also extend it to all types of vehicles, to prevent any drunk person from getting behind the wheel of a vehicle. we must therefore show the european citizens that the union cares about them and that we are also committed to protecting their lives, so that the tragedy of paula will never happen again in europe.
mr president, mr borrell, dear colleagues, i have to tell you very honestly that i am disappointed by president biden. he claims america is back; fair enough, but does that mean – in his perception, in his mind and in his strategic approach – that europe is also back? no. on the contrary, he did not consult us when he withdrew from afghanistan. he completely side—lined us in the aukus pact between australia, the uk and the us. he did not even take the step to abolish american tariffs on our european steel. moreover, biden arrived in europe a few months ago at the nato summit – north atlantic treaty organization – and he talked about what, colleagues, about what? about china. seems to me more south pacific than the north atlantic. so it’s time to get our act together. the us will not keep on paying the lion’s share in nato. we must do our part and launch our own european defence community, our own european army, not to weaken nato, as stoltenberg wrongly suggested, but on the contrary, to strengthen it. with a hopefully – and i talk to the french now – re—elected french president and a new german government, it’s time to think about our own interests, our own shared european sovereignty, and start acting, mr borrell, as a geopolitical commission. we have had enough wake—up calls, mr borrell.
mr president, after the first euphoric reactions to the new opportunities, some realistic opportunities do arise. i’d like to touch on one of them, and that is the worthy fight against modern slavery and forced labour in global value chains. modern slavery is a part of the lives of 30 to 47 million people in the world today. the united states has had a ban on the importation of forced labour slavery products since 1930. the newest version puts an obligation on companies to prove that there is no forced labour included in the value chains of their imports. if they cannot do so, the imports will be stopped. as the president of the commission has recently announced, the commission is planning a similar type of instrument in the eu, and i believe this is a distinct trade and customs policy instrument. the question of uyghur forced labour, is of course behind a lot of these discussions, and that is a very worthy cause. i talked recently to the customs and border protection authorities of the united states, and it’s now clear that the eu risks becoming a safe haven for products produced with the help of forced labour. according to their statistics, imports of uyghur—produced cotton to the united states have decreased, while they have recently increased to the european union. it is the same with palm oil, which is not only connected to deforestation, but also to forced labour. we have to act now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to defend at all costs our freedom, our democracy and the western world: this must be our mission in the face of the global threats that come our way every day from dictatorships and regimes like communist china or islamic-bashing iran. to overcome these challenges, it is now more necessary than ever to give a strong boost to the alliance and relations between europe and the united states of america, which will always be a beacon of freedom for the whole world. it is time to reform and strengthen the us-led atlantic alliance. it is time to build a strong and lasting alliance with israel. it is time to create a special relationship with post-brexit britain and all the countries of the anglosphere, which are key allies for common security and defence. the european parliament has been a very good example of the need to ensure that the european union is not a mere mere speculation. europe must play a great mea culpa for its culpable evasion. how can americans, britons and australians trust such an ambiguous and double-dealing europe? a europe that makes bloody trade deals with communist china, that is hesitant with the communist dictatorships of cuba and venezuela, that is cowardly with the fundamentalists in iran. the time has come, dear european bureaucrats, to decide which side to take, either this or that. there are no more half measures or third ways. on the one hand, we have the free world of western democracies, and on the other, the violent world of communist and islamist dictatorships. we at the league have no doubt: we are and will always be on the side of our american and atlantic allies, ready to fight for freedom to triumph over dictatorship and for good to triumph over evil.
mr president, i thought i had come here to discuss trade relations between the european union and the united states, but then i read the report and see that you are still going on with your usual blah, blah, blah about climate change, resilience, gender ideology and the fight against the far right. even in an agreement on commercial relations they talk about abortion, using that pompous euphemism of sexual and reproductive rights. i've been here a little over two years and i'm still amazed at the ability of your propaganda machine to stick its nose in all the sauces. the truth is that we are then told by other anti-europeanists that you are the ones who are leaving the european union and europe in the dust. china laughs at us. turkey and morocco laugh at us. the illegal immigration mobs are laughing at us. the big globalist corporations of network censorship laugh at us. even the united states of your beloved biden has laughed at us in afghanistan after collaborating with them for over twenty years, only to give the country to china in the end. these are the real problems facing europeans. to fight all this, count on us; to fight your ideological phantoms, do not count.
mr president, mr borrell, there are few certainties in international politics, but this is one of them: the more solid the alliance between the united states and europe, the more prosperous and freer the world is. when the united states, the united kingdom and australia made one of the most important alliances in recent decades, they did so behind the backs of the european union. the price of being excluded from the alliances that are being formed in the 21st century is precisely the price of being more autonomous. some in europe believe that china can be disconnected from business policy, and that is simply impossible, precisely because others have tried before us. this is the case with the australians, and their solutions and their rapprochement with the united states prove that equidistance with china is simply impossible. mr. borrell, we should learn from experience and results and examples, instead of questioning the decisions of our partners. the euro-atlantic alliance has supported the cause of freedom in the world for 70 years and it is its duty to strengthen this very pillar, not to weaken it, not to weaken what we have already built together - again - for almost 70 years.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, i am not going to talk about the human rights situation in belarus, which is linked to the border with poland, latvia and lithuania. we have three member states of the european union in flagrant breach of international law and de facto suspending the right of asylum since last summer. they have deployed their armies, declared states of emergency and made hot returns of asylum seekers to belarus, which has cost them a rebuke from the european court of human rights. to this deployment is added that of the frontex thugs. and, of course, one might think that they are trying to make belarus the new turkey, morocco or libya, that is, a plug country, another external border. the fact is that people who are trying to get to the european union via belarus are mainly from afghanistan and iraq. you'll agree with me, mrs. johansson, that they're not exactly paradise. i think that europe should take responsibility for these conflicts. those who sow war reap or must reap refugees. you can go on talking about hybrid war, inciting nato to put pressure on belarus and so on, but the only solution is to demand that our partners respect human rights. we are talking about a dignified reception, respect for the right to asylum and about something poland loves: the solidarity of refugees and migrants. it is not a bad thing that for once some of the most unsound countries in the european union see what it means for cities like ceuta to be an external border of the european union.
madam president, we all agreed to create an entity to deal with health emergencies, a response to cross-border threats or to advance new treatments when we're faced with what's already happened to us. what we have learned during the pandemic, with vaccines, has been very useful to us and it is good to take that example, but we see that in this case parliament is practically avoided, ignored, we are practically only looking at and i do not know what is intended. that is not the role of parliament. parliament's role is also to monitor and participate actively and regularly. it seems that they want to avoid the transparency control that we did during the vaccine purchase process. commissioner, we've been agile working together. parliament has made some very quick decisions during this pandemic. time is no excuse. i hope you will reconsider this proposal because i think it does not go far enough. we need to work together to improve the european response to health threats.
in writing. the spanish socialists advocate the creation of a european authority to prepare for and respond to health emergencies, as well as to reduce our dependence on health. the pandemic has highlighted the eu's lack of access to relevant medical countermeasure stocks, the vulnerability of supply chains and the lack of a coordinated and systematic approach to their development, production and procurement. in this regard, an eu authority would address the structural gaps in the eu's health preparedness and response capabilities with regard to biomedical development, production and development of response capacity. the socialists, however, regret the limited role given to parliament in this great project. during the pandemic, parliament has shown its cooperation, involvement and speed in negotiations and decision-making, so its mere observer role in the crisis committee is disappointing, as is the legal basis used by the commission for the procedure, which excludes it from functioning and decision-making. the socialists therefore ask that parliament not be left out of the new authority.
in writing. the spanish socialists advocate the creation of a european authority to prepare for and respond to health emergencies, as well as to reduce our dependence on health. the pandemic has highlighted the eu's lack of access to relevant medical countermeasure stocks, the vulnerability of supply chains and the lack of a coordinated and systematic approach to their development, production and procurement. in this regard, an eu authority would address the structural gaps in the eu's health preparedness and response capabilities with regard to biomedical development, production and development of response capacity. the socialists, however, regret the limited role given to parliament in this great project. during the pandemic, parliament has shown its cooperation, involvement and speed in negotiations and decision-making, so its mere observer role in the crisis committee is disappointing, as is the legal basis used by the commission for the procedure, which excludes it from functioning and decision-making. the socialists therefore ask that parliament not be left out of the new authority.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, today we are discussing the use made of the more than 10 billion euros that were supposedly earmarked for development aid projects with third countries: the shameful agreement with turkey, libya, etc. i would also point out that the debate is purely conceptual, because in this house we have no control over this money. and although eu rules do state that its use is only for development aid, what have we found? they are used to implement immigration control mechanisms which in many cases violate human rights and therefore do not comply with this rule. in this connection, i would like to highlight two of the conclusions reached in this opinion. firstly, the immediate suspension of funding to the libyan coastguard for serious human rights violations, as stated in the un report published today. and the review and, where appropriate, suspension of agreements with third countries. i would like to conclude with a fundamental question: it is essential to rethink the eu's solidarity model and to invest resources in projects that rescue people and respect rights. and it is essential that there are control mechanisms to ensure that public money is not used to generate human suffering.
madam president, the announced judicial reform is yet another example of erdogan's authoritarian drift, not to mention the attempt to outlaw the hdp, the persecution and imprisonment of activists, oppositionists and critical journalists or the withdrawal from the istanbul convention. the violation of human rights, political persecutions and attacks on democracy are well known in this house, but they do not seem to matter when it comes to calling turkey a safe third country to which to deport migrants or to giving it millions to exercise the police power of europe's borders. these funds were supposed to respond to an emergency, but here we are, five years later, discussing how to make exceptionalism the new permanent norm. and it is not enough to improve budgetary transparency or parliamentary control of these funds, because the problem is the funds themselves. the problem is the shameful agreement on the externalization of the european union's borders to turkey, which we will not tire of denouncing wherever we are. the problem is this deal.
madam president, we have to be clear on two things, when it comes to turkey and the refugee crisis. the first one is that we are disbursing eu funds to turkey not only because turkey is in need, but because the union is in need as well. we have to be clear about the following thing: there are more than four million refugees in turkey, who, if the authorities stop taking care of them, probably will not try to go back to their homes in syria and in afghanistan, but will probably try to reach the european union and – why not – strasbourg, where we are at the moment. that is one of the things. the second one, for sure, is that we need bulletproof control of the eu funds that are going to be invested in turkey. we have to be clear that – in front of our taxpayers, our voters – everything that is in our power to implement budgetary control over those funds has to be on grounds. not a single cent from the european budget has to be invested to chase somebody’s short—term political goals. finally, now it is time for calm and wise decisions, not for firework speeches here.
madam president, european taxpayers have spent billions of euros on development aid or on the instrument for pre-accession assistance, which is part of the multiannual financial framework, but also through these trust funds, which have also been much less transparent. what have we won? turkey, for example, has received more than 4 000 million euros from the refugee facility, or 3 500 million through the instrument for pre-accession assistance, and in return we have had waves of raids at the border crossings, threats and military confrontations with greece or france. it could continue with the african continent, which has been allocated over 25 billion euro a year in development aid and through the trust fund. in return, morocco tried to storm spain's border at ceuta this year. cooperation with african countries in the return of illegal immigrants is virtually nil, with a rate of return of less than 20%, and countries such as algeria are putting at risk the continuity of gas supply in spain. this money doesn't go to the most needy to guarantee their right not to emigrate. this money is left in the hands of ngos or any dictatorial satraps. it is therefore necessary to make any aid conditional on compliance with that obligation to cooperate in the control of illegal immigration. otherwise, our countrymen will be poorer and more insecure.
madam president, madam commissioner, the problem is still there, i mean we have not managed to get that huge number of people out of turkey, and it seems that the problem is going to get worse and there is no realistic prospect of those people being able to go back to, for example, syria or afghanistan. that is why we must be particularly careful about guarantees of return, always under the advice of the united nations. and one question, commissioner, is the balance between money for humanitarian purposes and money for development cooperation. because, according to the afghan thesis, humanitarian money must be sent without regard to the democratic quality of the political system. this is the case in afghanistan. but the less money goes to humanitarian aid and the more to cooperation, the more democratic conditionality we have to have. therefore, i support the continuation of these funds in the case of turkey, but with some guarantees: reinforcing a very weak legal basis the 2016 agreement and ensuring that management is always done by our delegation, international institutions and ngos. commissioner, come out and say again: 'no money is being transferred to the turkish treasury. because ten members of the house have said: 'money in erdogan's pockets'. and no one seems to tell them that that's not the real situation. and finally, since all the money is going to be union money, much more control from this parliament.
madam president, madam commissioner, the use of these funds over the years has shed some light, but many shadows: lack of transparency and information, little interaction with civil society and few independent monitoring mechanisms. in colombia, the situation has not improved in five years and the peace agreement has not been implemented. the africa fund has been used to restrict immigration rather than creating opportunities and channels for regular migration. let us be clear and demanding in this parliament: the new instrument for turkey or for any country should not be at the expense of the development cooperation budget. commissioner, please defend the development cooperation fund. we have already heard about the four million refugees in turkey. therefore, we do not accept that the money for his reception be withdrawn from the mattress of the ndici. it is not consistent that 30% of the reserve is spent in just nine months of implementation. the financing of initiatives should be provided by new appropriations, with contributions from the member states if necessary. we must not link migration policy with development policy, which should be used to create opportunities and not to keep refugees away from our borders. we must, from this parliament, participate fully in the new instrument, including its structures and the origin of these funds.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, one day we will have to see that our main enemies are inside nato and not outside. i say this because if anyone has put our democracies in jeopardy with their practices in recent years, it has been the united states. the last time, last june, the nsa, thanks to denmark, expiated the german government. it wasn't the first time, but nothing's going on here. you don't even have to look at nato. the threats are at home: the far right and its satellite companies use social media on a daily basis to manipulate elections, influence consultations such as brexit or spread hoaxes. they do it every day, but nothing happens. meanwhile, you are bent on strengthening nato and serving the united states in its clash against china and russia. you are pursuing a very dangerous military career. of course we need a european cybersecurity strategy, but to defend the interests of our people, not to fuel outdated military structures or conflicts that only interest the united states.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the arctic is a region of enormous importance for two main reasons. the first is climate change: the average temperature has risen three times faster than the rest of the planet. melting is not just a local problem, it has direct consequences on sea level rise, which causes floods, climate-driven migration, disruption of ecosystems and biodiversity. the second is that melting also opens up new shipping, transport and trade routes, the possibility of extracting key resources - oil, gas, minerals - which in turn influences the misnamed global security and defense policy. this is creating new tensions over control of the region and many geopolitical interests. the recent elections in greenland have sent a very clear message: they are not willing to turn their environment into an open-pit mine, exploited by outside interests. and herein lies a fundamental point for european policy. nothing should happen in the arctic without the voice of the people who live and inhabit it. no decision, initiative or agreement can be implemented without guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the inuit and respect for their decisions. the european union must, with an autonomous outlook, commit itself to a relationship that puts the fight against climate change and local and sovereign development at the centre. in the face of the militarization of the area, we must take stock of what has been achieved so far and increase our efforts to ensure that this strategic site does not become another black spot in european foreign policy. dialogue and the strengthening of multilateralism are the only way to jointly address global challenges.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner breton, when many hotels, tourist establishments and restaurants on our coasts are closing for the winter, many other entrepreneurs, selfemployed people and workers are starting to set up their businesses to face and start a winter tourist season that will allow them to have many millions of tourists. however, there is one island in europe where the tourist season that should have started right now has been completely wiped out by a volcanic eruption: i am talking about the wonderful spanish island of la palma. and this sector, in the case of the tourism sector in la palma, is facing the second consecutive blow after two years: the pandemic and the volcano. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the crisis. the tourism sector in la palma has gone from looking for reinforcements to face and get to a winter season as best as possible to simply being aware of what is going to happen with their lives and what is going to happen with their immediate future at this time. that is why, commissioner breton, the island of la palma not only needs to urgently process the aid already granted by the spanish government or also to have the european union solidarity fund, but it needs much more: it needs a european response for tourism in la palma, and we need it now, on the eve of the start of this winter season, and not in a year's time; this is the moment of our responsibility, and that is precisely what the european institutions are supposed to be and are supposed to be.
madam president, commissioner, the next generation, the vaccination campaign or the covid certificate are european achievements of which we can be very proud. these measures are the result of collaboration, coordination and good management between the european and national institutions. the eu covid certificate has achieved its objective of facilitating and encouraging cross-border mobility and, in addition to the health certification seal, has allowed tourism to begin to recover to some extent this summer, and, although far from pre-pandemic volumes, sheds some light on the terrible scenario left by the pandemic. for example, spain, where almost 80% of the adult population is vaccinated, is already perceived as a safe destination and tourist numbers are increasing. it also resulted in a successful technological approval, as the certificate controls worked without any problems. and i would like to highlight the work that is being done from the commission on that roadmap to prepare the sector for the green and digital transition. but we need to do more. you know, commissioner breton, that our committee on transport and tourism has been asking you for more ambitious action and for the answer to this crisis to be more europe, as it has been in the health field. despite the fact that we have no competence in health matters, we have been courageous and have committed ourselves to a european health union. i wonder why they do not also propose to set up a european union for tourism, which would develop a genuine european policy to create mechanisms for prevention and early management of possible future crises. twenty-seven million people are directly or indirectly employed in the tourism sector in the european union and have been seriously affected. what are we waiting for?
in writing. the european tourism ecosystem has been severely affected by the covid-19 crisis. there have been several debates in parliament over the past few months to speed up the recovery of the european tourism industry. next generation funds, the vaccination campaign, the digital covid certificate and the hygiene certification seal, among others, have been markedly european measures and achievements. they all had the same objective, to establish a coordinated vision at eu level with a view to regaining citizens' confidence in travel and avoiding unilateral measures that hinder the recovery of the sector. the commission notes that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the tourism sector, and that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the tourism sector. this analysis will be crucial in order to move firmly towards a genuine european tourism policy, a european tourism union.
in writing. the european tourism ecosystem has been severely affected by the covid-19 crisis. there have been several debates in parliament over the past few months to speed up the recovery of the european tourism industry. next generation funds, the vaccination campaign, the digital covid certificate and the hygiene certification seal, among others, have been markedly european measures and achievements. they all had the same objective, to establish a coordinated vision at eu level with a view to regaining citizens' confidence in travel and avoiding unilateral measures that hinder the recovery of the sector. the commission notes that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the tourism sector, and that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the tourism sector. this analysis will be crucial in order to move firmly towards a genuine european tourism policy, a european tourism union.
in writing. the european tourism ecosystem has been severely affected by the covid-19 crisis. there have been several debates in parliament over the past few months to speed up the recovery of the european tourism industry. next generation funds, the vaccination campaign, the digital covid certificate and the hygiene certification seal, among others, have been markedly european measures and achievements. they all had the same objective, to establish a coordinated vision at eu level with a view to regaining citizens' confidence in travel and avoiding unilateral measures that hinder the recovery of the sector. the commission notes that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the tourism sector, and that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the tourism sector. this analysis will be crucial in order to move firmly towards a genuine european tourism policy, a european tourism union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to cover all the sectors of the economy, including the environment, and to include the environment in the new regulation. but what we don't know is how many of them actually believe the news, and how many of them, if it's only half, don't have enough media coverage to know whether it's fake or not fake, whether it's disinformation or misinformation, so i can say, we'll never put information ahead of misinformation. however, we must not give up in the process. and of course we have to see what's the best way to do it in a legislative sense. social networks have given us a powerful democratic boost on the one hand, and on the other hand, they have opened up space for harmful activities. so i want to say that we need to approach this limitless space for disinformation systematically, more systematically than it has been today, to provide full support to our media colleagues, journalists, and just as strongly to give not only support but also concrete indicators of how we will engage our younger generations in media literacy.
madam president, mr breton, the chairman of the committee on disinformation, has asked - i think very correctly - the question and he has ended by quoting a german poet. i was coming here, to the plenary, thinking rather that this is the third time this week that i am going to call out in this parliament against misinformation. and i was reminded of cato the elder, the 'carthage of the east', because we are certainly becoming more aware that harmful, intentional and massive disinformation represents the risk of corrosion from within democratic systems. so it makes sense that this debate and the ones we've had this week about the complex role, in this case, of social platforms. future european laws for the digital sector should involve platforms, but not only platforms, because there are platforms that host very harmful activity: troll farms, bots for the mass dissemination of polarizing narratives, conspiracy or openly contrary to science and validity criteria. validity and science - as the commissioner knows - avoid pure nihilism and social and political chaos. many platforms take advantage of the anonymity of the source broadcaster. and the evidence points to many being linked to foreign interference. mr breton, two specific questions in the president's question. can you give us some concrete guidance on how you plan to address the lack of transparency about the origin, the people responsible and the funding of those platforms that publish disinformation and hateful content for industrial dissemination? while we need political legitimacy and legal certainty - that is clear - to be able to dismantle criminal operations, how do we approach identity verification procedures? disinformation is a crime, commissioner.
madam president, it is very true that there is massive disinformation on social networks, it is very true that there are a number of states which have turned the networks into a weapon widely used to exert influence and harm enemies and undermine democracies, but it is also very true that the disinformation of some in the networks is used as a pretext by certain forces, the owners of the networks and the political forces that are related to them, to exercise systematic censorship, always with sectarianism and manichaeism and always in the same direction: against conservative and national forces. i am glad to hear that now you want to break up monopolies, but at the moment the monopolies are all moving in the same direction. the biggest misinformation that has been around the world in the last four years has not been just on the networks, but on television and in the media, and journalists all over europe and the united states have been part of it: it's about trump's alleged conspiracy with russia, which is totally false. collusion, collusion! what are you doing? it was false, and right here it was echoed and nobody has denied it, and the biggest scandal that has been censored on the networks have been the depraved habits of biden's son and the concealment by his father, which could have changed the elections and the results and at least certain votes; it has never been on the networks, precisely because of that censorship: that's where we have to look at what is happening in these networks we are talking about.
madam president, commissioner, i believe that at this stage, with this obscene increase in the price of electricity, we cannot continue to cheat ourselves. there are two reasons for this: the energy crisis caused by the depletion of fossil fuels and tailor-made legislation by oligopolies and energy lobbies that makes it easier to loot the pockets of working people every month. it is obvious that, in order to solve this problem, there are also two options: to do nothing and let the families pay the electricity bill, or to push for drastic measures so that the energy multinationals earn a little less for once. so, mrs simson, i think you and i know where the commission can start, which is by changing european legislation to put an end to the marginalist market. a model that will allow me the simil charges us the kilo of sugar at the price of kilo of caviar. i assure you that in my country it is very complicated for families to assume these prices. today we have another record of light. mrs. simson, winter is coming and we're running out of time. i am very much afraid that your responsibility to stop this escalation is to amend the directive.
madam president, i am glad that we have this debate here; it was very necessary and my group did not hesitate to bring it up because it is of the greatest interest to the citizens. we are facing a crisis in the price of fossil fuels. the price of natural gas has skyrocketed far beyond what was predicted. we're slowing down our decarbonization drive and we're paying for it. but we have a problem here and now and politics must work to fix it. the rise in gas prices has broken the market. we find two price levels - fossil and non-fossil - that are totally out of step. the former are skyrocketing and the latter are affordable and stable, and that's bringing benefits that are unjustifiable. the situation is exceptional and we must look with flexibility at the proposals from the member states and await those from the commission. one of these proposals is a strategic platform for the purchase of gas, which my country has endorsed and which was just taken up by the president of the commission yesterday. a coordinated european response is therefore urgently needed in the short and medium term, because we expect this increase to continue until spring. what if it's not? what if some fossils don't return to their previous level? the first answer is clear: continue to invest in renewable sources, which also give us strategic autonomy. but you also have to adjust the rules. just yesterday acer mentioned that there will be years of price volatility, so we must review the rules for the operation of energy markets. we're no longer just talking about ensuring that the most humble people can heat their homes or deal with their electricity bill. we're talking about preventing a general impact on our economies that would jeopardize economic recovery and the energy transition.
madam president, mr president-in-office, for more than a decade now the electricity bill in spain has been one of the highest in europe. why would you do that? the problem is well known to the spanish people: the popular party and the socialist party allow a few electricity companies to share the market and abuse consumers. then the utilities return the favor with board seats. this week, former socialist leader antonio miguel carmona, with no experience in the sector, has been appointed by iberdrola as vice president to improve its institutional relations. an example of this manipulation: iberdrola stopped its hydropower plants in 2013, artificially increasing the electricity bill of all spaniards by 100 million. yes, mr president, 100 million. i have to say that. and they got caught, but the punishment imposed was a measly 25 million fine. why don't the regulators defend the spanish? because the pp and the psoe are not interested in losing their seats on the boards of directors. so, commissioner, i was very pleased to hear you say that you are going to insist on compliance with european legislation, and i ask you to insist that the commission insists on the proper functioning of the internal market and on the respect of the competition rules by the spanish regulators.
madam president, consumers, small and mediumsized enterprises and the selfemployed are seeing how the uncontrolled electricity bill is putting at risk the viability of their economies and their businesses. this is no time for political tactics. the green deal is not the cause of this tragedy. on the contrary, we are paying the price today for not acting sooner to decarbonize our economy and to increase renewables, clean technologies, green hydrogen, the only way to end our dependence on gas. the commission has a great challenge, but the member states must also increase their interconnections. they must reform the energy taxation system so that consumers do not pay twice and must act rigorously to prevent speculation and profits from the sky of electricity companies, as well as adopt social measures such as the electricity social bond to help the most vulnerable.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. ladies and gentlemen! the increase in energy prices which is affecting many citizens of the european union today is proof that economic policy cannot be based on ideological assumptions and the naive belief that russia is a reliable partner. no one today doubts that the sudden rise in gas prices is the result of manipulation of the supply of this raw material. vladimir putin himself is speaking about it openly. all the fears expressed for years by poland and the baltic states that such dependence gives moscow a perfect tool to influence political decisions and social moods in europe are materializing. the climate policy pushed by the european commission is also partly to blame for its unrealistic and disconnected social costs. the current energy market situation is only a prelude to the problems that will be caused by an energy transition that is carried out too quickly and disconnected from economic realities.
madam president, the light is getting darker on the european recovery. we are experiencing historic increases in the price of electricity, gas and fuel. inflation is directed against the most vulnerable and, of all the european union, the spanish are the ones who suffer most from the rise in light. the spanish government has reacted late and badly, with a confiscatory and interventionist regulation that causes an unstoppable rise in the price of electricity, which ruins families, bankrupts the marketers, stops the energy transition investments of the entire industry and paralyses the production of renewables. this shows, once again, the incompetence of the left-wing government of sánchez. this electricity crisis is putting the social acceptance of the green deal at risk. the green deal is ambitious and necessary, yes, but it cannot be a wall to recovery and a burden to families and businesses. households only have to pay for the energy they consume, so taxes on electricity bills should be eliminated and the co2 money should be invested to relieve the pressure on the consumer. and europe must take the reins of its future. we are vulnerable to gas supplies from russia and algeria and to high prices for co2 emission allowances. we therefore need to protect the competitiveness of industry, guarantee legal certainty for investments, prevent speculation with co2 emission rights and, of course, protect jobs and families. the eu must act now to ensure that economic recovery does not remain in a dead-end.
madam president, madam commissioner, this house has already recognized in several resolutions that housing is a fundamental right: affordable and decent housing, with access to basic energy services, in line with the social pillar and the sustainable development goals. however, millions of people in the european union suffer from energy poverty, while the gas and energy market is one of the most profitable sectors in the world, with gross profits and exorbitant prices. the oligopoly of the electricity companies must be regulated and intervention must be taken if necessary, as this is an essential public service. and to do that we need community solutions that will re-design energy markets and oblige member states to implement protective measures for vulnerable groups: more social tariffs, more energy-efficient housing and no more disconnections. we need a global strategy to eradicate energy poverty now. as we sit here debating proposals, many people are freezing in their homes and many children are trying to do their homework without light.
in writing. the rise in electricity prices continues unabated. the problem is the rise in the price of co2 emissions and, above all, the enormous increase in the cost of gas. the debate has reached europe because, unfortunately, the measures at national level have had little impact. unless we act together, the situation will only get worse as winter approaches. i therefore welcome commissioner simson's proposal for joint gas purchases for the whole of the eu. as with the recovery plan and the purchase of vaccines, we have learned that the eu is stronger when it is united. however, the 'action manual' does not set out any innovative measures. it is presented as a mere reminder of tools such as 'the reduction of some tax rates'. we have to go one step further. the long-term solution must be to rethink our energy mix to move towards renewables. we must improve interconnections, which in spain are well below the 10% target, and create a competitive energy market with fewer barriers to entry. finally, we must support citizens with direct payments to all families.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, dear commissioner, what do tony blair, the leader of the camorra rafael amato and pep guardiola have in common? who, according to the recent leak of the pandora papers, have all used shell companies to avoid paying taxes. unfortunately this is not the first time this has happened. today, as my colleagues have said, it is the pandora papers, yesterday it was the panama papers, luxleaks, the falciani list, the paradise papers, etc. the reality is that they're the same people committing the same crimes over and over again. our leaders are acting outraged, but nothing changes. words are gone with the wind. commissioner, you asked why nothing changes after every wave of indignation. and i think the papers that we're looking at contain some clue to the answer. it is not surprising that nothing changes when so many of those who should be working to change it are themselves among the beneficiaries of these screen societies. what to do? money knows no borders and criminals will always find the weakest link to get money through front companies to the countries that receive them in this way. the governments of the european union and this parliament will work with the commission to create a european agency against money laundering and terrorist financing in legislation on which i will be rapporteur. the agency will monitor the most risky financial institutions and ensure that countries do not turn a blind eye to the inflow of black money. europe cannot afford to let this opportunity pass. i pledge, commissioner, and to all of you, to work together to create a strong, well-funded and independent agency, so that this is the last time we have to come out in indignation over a scandal like this.
madam president, with the pandora papers we are facing a new scandal: many personalities from the ultra-capitalist lobby atlas network, the legionaries of christ, guillermo lasso, sebastián piñera, vargas llosa, pastrana, links with the king emeritus of spain or the current dutch finance minister and the czech prime minister, both of whom i recall have veto power in fiscal matters in the european union. we have had to listen to them say that democracy is only democracy if you vote well, that is, what they dictate, or see them put obstacles in the way of the creation of the recovery funds. when it comes to the economic elites, there is no north or south. there is the defence of the plunder of the few against the rights of the social majority. let us not be fooled: this new scandal of looting public coffers is now known and allowed and shows a lack of political will. we need to end tax havens also within the european union, improve the methodology of the list of non-cooperative jurisdictions, the blacklist of jurisdictions that do not comply with the fight against money laundering, have effective infringement procedures. there is much to be done and it is time for a clear commitment. who's with the swindlers and who's with the rights of his people?
madam president, international investigative journalists have shone a light on many who crave the spotlight in their professional and political lives but wish for their secret wealth to be shrouded in darkness. i commend the work of these journalists. it reminds those who need reminding that our world is a viciously unequal place. as countries scramble for millions to fund health and social services, usd 11 trillion are out of reach offshore. my own country, ireland, plays a significant role in this great cheating of our peoples. global action to tackle offshore money and the associated crime and tax avoidances is now required. as a cog in this machine of inequity, ireland must get its house in order, start rebuilding our reputation not as facilitators to hiding capital of billionaires, but as a country with moral conscience that values transparency over secrecy, equality over inequality, and decency over greed.
the shame of being here. five years ago we were talking about the panama papers and, today, we are here discussing the same topic: the european union is a global actor in the fight against terrorism, and its role in the fight against terrorism is clear. yes, i believe, that journalists are doing our job and it is not right! i would like to remind you that four years ago, next week, daphne caruana galizia will mark four years since she was killed for fighting money laundering. politicians should not be elected to hide their money. but to invest in young people, families, workers, the elderly, smes and people. my appeal is clear: - together for all the institutions - we need to make sure we make laws and that they are followed. whoever hides his money must not find any clause that will set him free. and we can only do that if we work together. and we have a place where we can work together. we will shortly be talking about how we, this whole parliament, will fight money laundering on the proposals put forward by the commission. let us unite, let us be a united parliament because together we must ensure that justice is done and seen to be done. we politicians must fight money laundering wherever it occurs, even if it is politicians from our own countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. and the groundhog says hello. there he is again, the next tax scandal. panama, paradise, now the pandora papers. but these pandora papers revelations surpass their predecessors with a force that is hard to imagine any more. this inevitably raises a number of questions: why is it still possible that there are letterbox companies whose sole purpose is to evade taxes? why is it still possible to set up offshore accounts whose sole purpose is to hide wealth? why is it still possible that banks and law firms are the supplicants for these morally reprehensible actions? there is only one answer to these questions: enough is enough! the governments of all countries must finally take effective measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance. tax evasion, tax avoidance, that is what is destroying our society. it is about billions of euros that we need as a society and that belong to society. all good taxpayers deserve that. so there is only one thing to say: tax the rich!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, lux leaks came first and europe said never again. then the panama papers and the paradise papers and europe said never again. the commission and the council have vowed an unprecedented crackdown on tax havens, but today we are once again talking about another scandal, the pandora papers, and thanks to real journalism, investigative journalism. yet the blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions, a key tool to put pressure on tax havens, is getting shorter. just yesterday, the european finance ministers removed three more countries. nine remain, but the world's most notorious tax havens for evasion and money laundering remain outside. the problem is political, but it is also a matter of credibility. how credible is europe in raising the flag of the fight against tax evasion when two heads of government and a finance minister are tax evaders? how credible are they in asking the citizens to make sacrifices, in calling for the return of austerity, but in the council they oppose measures against tax havens, such as the common corporate tax base or the agreement on the global minimum tax? this is not just a question of fiscal justice, but also a question of social justice.
the european union, together with the member states, is trying to implement and enforce effective measures to combat fraud and money laundering. it is a great paradox that these rules should be actively promoted by one of the actors of the pandora papers scandal, czech prime minister andrej babiš. if he were to tighten control and transparency of financial flows, he would be against himself. the same andrej babiš who was proven guilty of a conflict of interest by the european commission. this new discovery puts him in the international company of financial adventurers who do business by all means, including illegal ones. andrej babiš is facing a criminal prosecution at home that is suspiciously long, he is defending himself in brussels and now he is facing further investigations possibly in france, in the united states. therefore, instead of defending the interests of the citizens of the czech republic, he will have to defend himself before the police and courts in those countries. i appreciate the work of investigative journalists who have worked together around the world to uncover this case as well. these are not speculations, these are facts. andrei babiš does not deny these transactions either. this friday, citizens in the czech republic can decide to change and have a chance to elect a new prime minister. a prime minister who will be a trusted partner in the european union and will truly defend the interests of czech citizens. so please, give us a thumbs up! so fingers crossed!
madam president, i would like to thank everyone for, again, another scandal on this matter. i think we all share our frustration about the lack of progress, but we also need to be a bit more precise now on what we are going to do. to the commission and the council, i think you need to be better in explaining a couple of decisions that have been made. therefore, first of all to the commission, this is also about enforcement. we do have common reporting standards from the oecd into the directive on administrative cooperation (dac) but, if we see, for example, on anti-money laundering that malta is there on a grey list, if you look to the financial action task force, can you then see that malta did not correctly implement the anti—money laundering directive? what is the commission going to do about that? we need to be more precise. and the same for the council, and this is really about this blacklist. why is turkey again prolonged? why is the united states, which is not cooperative, again not mentioned, whereas in the pandora papers, it is very clear that the united states is becoming a bigger and bigger problem? the council needs to reply to the citizens’ questions on this.
madam president, commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, tax evasion threatens the foundations of our democracies and the pandora papers will leave a lasting mark on the european parliament. i notice the lack of comment on this case from certain political groups, from the far right to the liberals, united as never before to avoid upsetting the rich caught cheating on taxes. this admission of complicity is even shared by some large states. in france, for example, the government has been pocketing the poor and vulnerable for months, but there are only a few sanctions against those who cheat. a nice bonus for the smart guys who haven't been caught yet, but still nothing to root out the problem. so, commissioner, mr president of the council, the european union must be absolutely exemplary in this respect. we expect strong, rapid and transferable action at global level through the oecd. in two years of being in this parliament, this is the fifth time that i have spoken in this house about each scandal. it's time to end this charade that's been going on for so long.
madam president, commissioner, the international consortium of investigative journalists warns that, due to the complexity and secrecy of the offshore system, it is not possible to know how much of this money is linked to tax evasion and other crimes and how much includes funds that come from legitimate sources and have been declared to the competent authorities. the difference between legal, even if it seems inappropriate, and illegal is an essential difference and, for this purpose, raises different problems and issues. and i say this because we are facing a debate in which sometimes the most striking or the most scandalous is not always the most important. and i am referring specifically to the fight against money laundering. we have made remarkable progress, but the most recent police operations have once again highlighted the enormous scale of this problem. the ongoing review of european legislation is important. we need legislation, but - and it has been said - we also need implementation and resources. setting up an offshore company is not illegal. but we also know that this legal engineering, associated with tax havens, enabled by intermediaries and colluding advisors and enhanced by current digital financial tools and products, forms complex circuits in which the trace of illegally obtained money is lost. we need a strict, realistic and credible assessment of the list of tax havens and the cooperation obligations from the european union. and this parliament must firmly demand that those obligations be fulfilled.
in writing. the debate, which took place in the plenary on wednesday 6 october in the afternoon, follows the latest journalistic investigation which revealed the extent to which the international and european financial ecosystem in particular is generating tax evasion across europe and helping money laundering. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines. furthermore, it is considered shameful that, following the pandora papers revelations, the eu council of finance ministers decided to reduce the eu list of tax havens, removing from the blacklist of jurisdictions that do not comply with international standards on transparency and exchange of information, countries that appear in the pandora papers revelations.
in writing. the debate, which took place in the plenary on wednesday 6 october in the afternoon, follows the latest journalistic investigation which revealed the extent to which the international and european financial ecosystem in particular is generating tax evasion across europe and helping money laundering. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines. furthermore, it is considered shameful that, following the pandora papers revelations, the eu council of finance ministers decided to reduce the eu list of tax havens, removing from the blacklist of jurisdictions that do not comply with international standards on transparency and exchange of information, countries that appear in the pandora papers revelations.
in writing. the debate, which took place in the plenary on wednesday 6 october in the afternoon, follows the latest journalistic investigation which revealed the extent to which the international and european financial ecosystem in particular is generating tax evasion across europe and helping money laundering. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines. furthermore, it is considered shameful that, following the pandora papers revelations, the eu council of finance ministers decided to reduce the eu list of tax havens, removing from the blacklist of jurisdictions that do not comply with international standards on transparency and exchange of information, countries that appear in the pandora papers revelations.
in writing. the debate, which took place in the plenary on wednesday 6 october in the afternoon, follows the latest journalistic investigation which revealed the extent to which the international and european financial ecosystem in particular is generating tax evasion across europe and helping money laundering. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines. furthermore, it is considered shameful that, following the pandora papers revelations, the eu council of finance ministers decided to reduce the eu list of tax havens, removing from the blacklist of jurisdictions that do not comply with international standards on transparency and exchange of information, countries that appear in the pandora papers revelations.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, it’s not usual to say this, but i agree very much with everything that my two colleagues from the people’s party and from s&d said before, mr mureşan and ms gardiazabal. turning now to the commissioner; mr gentiloni, in july you delayed viktor orbán’s recovery plans, citing concerns over the risk of corruption, and two months later the plans are still not approved. and we would like to know, this house would like to know, what progress are we making and what guarantees have you obtained? i think there are at least three questions, and probably some more, as my colleagues mentioned, that need to be answered. first, has viktor orbán fixed hungary’s broken public procurement system? second, will viktor orbán pass a law preventing people with a proven record of irregularities and conflicts of interest – we have plenty – from gobbling up more eu funds? third, has viktor orbán repealed laws which prevent investigative journalists and ngos from accessing documents and properly scrutinising the use of public money? hungary needs deep reforms when it comes to corruption. national laws must be changed and this must be changed now, before the recovery money goes to mr orbán. mr orbán has a parliamentary majority big enough to change even the hungarian constitution, so please don’t let him tell us that he can’t pass laws on corruption. commissioner gentiloni, having a solid anti—corruption mechanism is something that those in this room negotiated with you and with the council. it’s a legal requirement in the rrf regulation; it’s not something nice to have, it’s a ‘must pass’ criterion. it’s pass or fail, it’s yes or no: either you have solid anti—corruption mechanisms or we cannot approve those plans; there’s no middle ground here. and when you give a pass, just an easy pass, to mr orbán now, if you do, on corruption, you go against the body of evidence of your services and against the potential further legal actions that we are taking against hungary. commissioner gentiloni, i want to be clear: not a single mep in this house wants to punish hungarians or hungary. we want to make sure, in fact, that the recovery money will go to honest hungarians and deserving hungarians, and not just to the politically connected and powerful. so stay firm, don’t give these seven billion dollars to orbán to feed his corrupt clients, and not a single euro from european taxpayers must end up in the pocket of crooks and corrupt politicians. and honestly, i think what we wanted when we made these regulations is that – precisely to give this leverage to the commission. and the commission now has the leverage to force orbán to fix hungary’s most egregious corruption problems. the moment is now: the commission has the leverage, europe has this power, and we need to do it before we are swamped by corruption scandals, and the use of all this european money.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! poland submitted its national reconstruction programme and the european commission was to give its opinion on it. the european commission had a time limit. unfortunately, she did not live up to that promise. the commissioner is talking about principles: transparency, reliability, the rule of law. i'm sure the commissioner knows that the rule of law must be in accordance with the letter and spirit of the treaty. i'm sure the commissioner knows that the judiciary is the exclusive competence of the member states. so why is the european commission not fulfilling its responsibilities? why is the european commission trying to tie the cfp to the conditionality mechanism and force concessions on non-fund issues? i don't see the connection between the approval of the cpo and the ruling of the ecj in the disciplinary chamber case. you know that the judiciary is a member state's competence. the commission's negligence not only breaches european law, mr commissioner, but also shows that it is not about the economy, but about politics, ideology. you are not a super government, you are exceeding the law and breaking european law.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! in this debate, we talk a lot about the rule of law, about respect for the law, the rules. and this is very important, because it is the foundation of the work of every member state and of every eu institution. but have we considered how this case looks from the point of view of the beneficiaries of this fund, those who are to benefit from the national reconstruction plans, also in my homeland, in poland. because they all, without exception: entrepreneurs, farmers, local government, healthcare workers, they are all worried about the dispute between prime minister morawiecki's government and the european commission. they are worried about the consequences of the - in my opinion, completely unfounded - request made by prime minister morawiecki to the constitutional court. they ask questions too. they ask not only when they're going to get the money they've been promised, but exactly what it's going to be for. because beyond the general statements in the national reconstruction plan, they see absolutely nothing. they don't know what for. they don't know who. they don't know how much, what level. they just don't know anything. and now the question that they're asking is, who's going to make the decisions about how to allocate that money? what is the process of socializing these decisions so that the money actually goes where it's really needed? will this money also go to those who have been most affected by the covid-19 pandemic? because as the name implies, we are to rebuild what is destroyed and ruined. i am glad that we are going to invest in the priorities and in the areas that are going to bring us added value in the next dozen or so years. but we cannot forget those who have been deprived not only of development opportunities but also of their day-to-day activities due to the lockdown. and that's what people care about.
madam president, we are in a period of reflection on the future of europe and i would like to say one thing to you: the europe of the future must no longer be an atm from which you withdraw money without giving anything in return. the european citizens expect something else from us, they expect us to build a europe based on values, on respect for democracy and the rule of law. this respect for values should therefore be a precondition, including for access to european money or for the approval of recovery and resilience plans. and our citizens are also waiting for something else: they are waiting for support to get through the big changes that will take place in the coming years. green and digital transformation may sound good here in strasbourg or brussels, but in our villages and cities, it is causing anxiety. that is why the recovery and resilience mechanism must be about reforms and not about money. we need to use recovery and resilience plans to make these reforms that we need, so that tomorrow's europe is better prepared for crises, so that tomorrow's europe embraces these transformations of the economy and society, but leaves no one behind. i trust, commissioner, that you will pursue these objectives both in approving the plans and in implementing them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i came to this debate today to talk about what is important, which is the recovery funds, to ask you from this house for that diligence in the analysis of the national plans and to ask you also for extreme diligence in the monitoring of the implementation of the funds, to prevent that there is waste, that there is patronage, that there is diversion of funds and, above all, to make sure that the funds go for the very purpose for which they are, which is economic recovery, to smes, families, etc. but unfortunately, and because of allusions as a spaniard, after listening to mr comín's speech, i am obliged to waste my time in replying to him, to a man who is a fugitive from spanish justice - he and mr puigdemont are fugitives from spanish justice - and who has dared to come here and accuse my country of not being a full democracy. and not just to accuse spain of not being a full democracy, but to ask that the funds be withdrawn from spain, to ask that the funds not reach all the spaniards who are in need of that arrival of funds. and i can't allow that. mr comín and mr puigdemont are fugitives from justice, they have no authority to denounce the spanish state, which is a full democracy, and what is more important, with their words they are harming the interests of those they claim to defend, the interests of all spaniards, including the separatist catalans who support them. because he has come here today to ask that european solidarity, the european stimulus plan, not reach the spanish people, and we must denounce him. i regret that i have had to waste my time answering you and not being able to debate with you.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism is enabling the issuance of ngeu debt with a reasonably well functioning scheme evaluation and monitoring procedure. this parliament introduced democratic conditionality into the mrr regulation, and it is this conditionality that is making it possible to put pressure on the governments of poland and hungary to respect the rule of law. hungary and poland presented their plans in may. they've asked for extensions, which have expired. at least part of these delays are related to respect for the rule of law. we are talking about the fight against corruption, the need for changes in the public procurement system, transparency in information on final recipients, non-discrimination in access to funds and even something that seems incredible: the acceptance of the primacy of european law. given the background and the unwillingness of these governments to play by the rules, it is difficult to think of approving the plans. we ask the commission to keep up the pressure. this instrument will not only help us to finance recovery, but also to uphold the principles of the rule of law in the union.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism is enabling the issuance of ngeu debt with a reasonably well functioning scheme evaluation and monitoring procedure. this parliament introduced democratic conditionality into the mrr regulation, and it is this conditionality that is making it possible to put pressure on the governments of poland and hungary to respect the rule of law. hungary and poland presented their plans in may. they've asked for extensions, which have expired. at least part of these delays are related to respect for the rule of law. we are talking about the fight against corruption, the need for changes in the public procurement system, transparency in information on final recipients, non-discrimination in access to funds and even something that seems incredible: the acceptance of the primacy of european law. given the background and the unwillingness of these governments to play by the rules, it is difficult to think of approving the plans. we ask the commission to keep up the pressure. this instrument will not only help us to finance recovery, but also to uphold the principles of the rule of law in the union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, during the crisis caused by covid-19, banks have undoubtedly been a key pillar for recapitalising companies and for reviving the european economy. and they have been largely thanks to the progress made over the past year in strengthening the third pillar of the banking union and leading to the creation of a european deposit insurance scheme. a strong banking system that is able to withstand potential crises and to serve as the economic lung of our region must give priority to the establishment of the necessary reforms in the field of resolution and deposit insurance. i therefore welcome the steps taken so far in this direction and encourage the commission to continue along this line. however, if we have learned anything else during these months, it is that capital markets are also a fundamental pillar for the recovery of the european economy, because it is still too dependent on bank credit and that is a weakness for our smes, for our companies. that is why we must work to promote a culture of equity in europe. capital markets have the capacity to finance european households and businesses, to allow retail investors to enter and to generate a more integrated and stronger market. this is the line we should be betting on. the combination of a strong banking system and a single capital market is therefore key to the recovery of our economy, to a more stable economic and monetary union and to making the european union the most competitive and attractive region for international investment.
mr president, some members have expressed their personal and political experiences here in crossborder cooperation. i am in this situation, and i know that progress in crossborder cooperation always initially meets with suspicion and reluctance in ministries and in capitals. that is why it is good to remind governments that europe has been legally constructed by treaties between the capitals, but has been sewn together and has been socially legitimized at each frontier. and that the logic and historical inertia of europe is precisely the overcoming of the unwanted effects of borders and that on those borders there are many non-state actors: regions, municipalities, civil society, who expect sensitivity to their problems. the commission and parliament must insist on this formula and the council must know that its reservations will be swept away by the inertia of european construction. governments tell us that there are other ways to solve these problems. why haven't they done it for decades? why do we keep talking about problems which you say could have been solved, or is subsidiarity an excuse for inaction? the commission must continue with this project and parliament must give it its full political support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transformation of easo into a more efficient european agency with more resources and instruments has required a lot of work to improve the text of the legislative proposal. the aim has always been to strengthen the common european asylum system by providing adequate support for the management of migration flows, asylum applications and the reception system. despite the marked diversity of views from member states, the italian government and the mediterranean countries have shown in this case a clear willingness to move beyond the stalemate that has plagued the immigration and asylum reform package for years. the provision of the 'sunrise clause' for the rules on the monitoring of national asylum systems and the various powers conferred on the institutions and the agency remains a key element. the regulation is related to the ongoing debate on fair sharing of responsibility and solidarity, in particular on an automatic and mandatory relocation mechanism. the frontline countries are not going to back down on this.
i would ask you, mr urbán crespo, to respect the rules of procedure. if you comply with the rules of procedure, you can of course also exercise your right to speak.
mr president, commissioner, today the european union is taking a step forward in tackling the common challenge of immigration and asylum. with today's decision we are strengthening the european union asylum agency, giving it better organisation and better resources, capacity and staff. as already mentioned, the agency will have a total of 500 asylum experts - security analysts, interpreters and legal professionals - ready to support the host states. this commitment to a consolidated agency aims to improve coordination between all member states and to speed up response in times of crisis. it is intended to show, in short, that when europeans work together we are not only more efficient, but we can tackle greater challenges. and we must continue along this line with the other blocs that make up the new pact on migration and asylum which we are defending, because we need european solutions to european problems. every time an immigrant, or a refugee, sets foot on the greek islands, the problem is not greek, but european. every time a boat full of immigrants arrives on the shores of lampedusa, the problem is not italian but european. and whenever a child crosses the border illegally from ceuta, the problem is not spanish, but european. the european commission, with vice-president schinas at its head, has understood this perfectly well and has supported us in times of crisis. it is time now for the other member states to understand that the countries of the south need coordinated and european solutions on a permanent basis. i hope that they too will play their part in the coming months and that we will achieve this.
mr president, the countries of the european union reached an agreement last june to strengthen the european asylum support office and to make it a fully-fledged european agency. we welcome this agreement because it has reduced the delay in the entry into force of some key articles in the regulation. while we welcome the new roles assigned to it, we are aware that the work of the agency will be valued in terms of the policies it ends up implementing. and these policies will be those set out in other legislative initiatives contained in the eu pact on migration and asylum. and for the moment, we regret to say that the proposals published by the commission fall far short of what the greens/efa group expects. we ask them to be more ambitious and, above all, sensitive to the humanitarian crises that exist. work for legislation that protects the right to seek asylum, ensures effective and efficient asylum procedures and ensures a fair sharing of responsibilities between member states. in the face of the reactionary project of a fortress europe based on fear and populism, we defend a europe of empathy, solidarity and human rights. let us be the ones to build bridges and not the ones to raise walls.
mr president, it is surprising that in a debate of this nature you cannot wear an anti-racist t-shirt in a chamber like this. the push for an asylum agency would be great news if there were a common asylum policy in the eu that respected human rights. in fact, the creation of instruments that have no clear policy behind them or that are even contrary to common sense in protecting vulnerable people fleeing persecution, war or climate change, rather augurs that what is being done may end up becoming another agency out of control. in this time i have had the opportunity to visit the greek-turkish border, sicily, algeciras, the canary islands, melilla... in all cases, they have one thing in common: detention camps for people without legal guarantees to access the right of asylum. there is certainly a common asylum protocol in the eu: it is that of suspension of rights and systematic return and deportation. we insist that this agency will only make sense when the eu does its duty in the field of asylum and has a mechanism in place to guarantee rights and respect for international law. if we do not, we will be replicating the frontex model: an agency which, as you know, violates human rights.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, when abortion is banned, as we are seeing in texas, if a judge does not prevent it, the lives and physical and psychological health of women are put at risk, and they have to resort to clandestine and unsafe abortions. inequality and discrimination are encouraged, because it is women who give birth and who face greater difficulties when they have children. their autonomy to decide freely when and how many children to have is limited. their right to freedom of religion and conscience is violated, because many of the laws restricting abortion - we are seeing here - are based exclusively on the doctrines of faith. those who might be called "pro some lives" claim to defend the right to life of the unborn, but their opposition to abortion has more to do with the sacredness of the conventional family, in which the father is the owner and the mother the property. the mother is a reproductive machine with no ability to decide on her own life in the face of unwanted pregnancies. the pro-some-lives also use demographic and racist arguments to assign us the role of full-time birth mothers, since, according to them, their own children are always better than those of migrants, so that women have to give birth to avoid the degeneration of the national progeny. women's lives must be put at the service of their children, their race and their nation. as a feminist, i claim the essential role of women in sustaining life and nurturing bonds, but not the bonds that religious fundamentalists want to impose on us, but the ones we freely choose and accept, outside our wombs.
on behalf of the s&d club. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy is necessary because europe, and the world, must change the way we produce and consume food. the way we do it now is not sustainable, it hasn't been sustainable for decades. every time we sit down to eat, we consume not only food, but the future of our children and grandchildren. we have no right! on that plate are the soil, water, pesticides, antibiotics, fuel and electricity used, the forests logged and the gases released in production. and the sad thing is that about a third of that food is going to end up in the garbage, and that's why we have to act. furthermore, one in two adults and one in three children in europe are overweight, with the resulting enormous health, social and economic damage. it is estimated that this amounts to 60 million euros a year. statistics show that in 2017, nearly one million premature deaths were linked to unhealthy diets, as many as one in five. so we have to act. european farmers are increasingly faced with food imports that are produced without respecting the same standards and rules by which they live and work. they're often bribed, blackmailed and exploited by dealers and distributors and that's why we need to act. there's a great degree of social consensus in europe that things have to change. the public and the real sector see it. public opinion polls show a high degree of support for environmental conservation and climate change mitigation. the citizens expect change and that's why we have to act. achieving all that the 'field to table' strategy envisages will not be easy, cheap or simple. if reforms are implemented without adequate preparation and financial support, without consideration for the opinions of those whose lives they will affect, results will be lacking, and the consequences will be long-lasting. i believe that the report before us is balanced, that it looks at the problem from several perspectives and that the measures and objectives are achievable and necessary. so i'm calling on you to support him and take action. finally, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the reports, the rapporteurs, the members and their teams, and the commissioners.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the challenge of bringing food production, climate change and environmental protection together is complex. if we are to achieve this goal, we cannot avoid recognising and managing conflicts of objectives between the different dimensions of sustainability. these conflicts of interest are uncomfortable and have always been hidden. but to find workable solutions, we need a broad and open dialogue. the 'from the court to the table' strategy is a good starting point and i think that with this report we have found a broadly accepted compromise which demonstrates parliament's willingness to talk and compromise. i am sure that by building on this, we can make good progress on the initiatives we have announced. i would like to stress two points in particular. first, farmers are part of the solution, not the cause of the problem. they want to contribute to a more sustainable food production. the social expectations placed on them must also be realistically achievable. second, and this is integral to this, more sustainability as a business model must also be worthwhile for farmers at large. the farmers must also be able to earn a living by working with their hands. the economic future of our rural regions in europe depends on it. we have a duty to offer credible solutions. security of supply in the eu is not a given and this strategy will lay the foundations for it.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, a strategy is defined as a series of well-thought-out actions aimed at a specific end. in the case of the strategy in question, these deliberate actions are nowhere to be seen. i would also stress that we are facing an unprecedented improvisation exercise in community legislation which can have very negative consequences in a strategic sector such as food. commissioner, we are legislating on the future of millions of farmers without a clear idea of the consequences this may entail. i would say it's like a sophisticated kind of russian roulette that we're exposing the sector to. many reports point to the weaknesses of this strategy. some have been hidden without success - as my colleague mr dorfmann has already said - and have of course achieved the opposite of what was undoubtedly intended. we are all aware today that the transformation of the agri-food model proposed by the commission presents more threats than opportunities. experts point out that in the short and medium term there will be an increase in costs, a reduction in production and an increase in the price of food. during the last year many farmers have told us that we should not play with food and have complained about the lack of plant protection products. they denounced the hypocrisy of a trade policy which encourages imports from third countries and called for a fairer and more bearable transition. we must listen to them and contribute ideas so that the commission's legislative proposals are realistic and do not sacrifice the socioeconomic fabric of our rural areas. if we are wrong, if we are wrong now, we will never be able to stop the rural exodus and we will condemn our villages to abandonment.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, all farmers know that they have to invest more and more to become poorer: more pesticides, pesticides and fertilisers in soil that is increasingly eroded, without water or nutrients. tomorrow we can start changing that. we can change the way we produce, distribute and consume to avoid the water and food crises we already suffer today. the change we all need must also be an opportunity for our farmers and ranchers, to improve their position in the food chain and allow them to grow and raise in a more close, profitable and healthy way. they can't be the pagans, all the actors in the food chain have to answer. we must improve the lives of those who are responsible for feeding us every day: by increasing their income, avoiding the emptying of rural areas and limiting the oligopoly of the large distribution chains. like it or not, food transition is no longer an option, but a given, and what we have now is the opportunity to turn necessity into virtue. of course, all this also requires greater coherence in public policies, including the european union's trade policy, to avoid the technological futurism of digitisation becoming a burden. the debate on the farm to fork strategy is evidence that food is political and that the discussion goes far beyond reducing emissions or preventing nutrient losses; in fact, the report we are voting on tomorrow is an essential step in defending the human right to adequate food for all.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you, commissioner, for coming. i think that this debate should have been attended by the commissioner for agriculture and the vice-president of the commission. i think it's an important debate that we're having here. what we should be discussing today is what a sustainable agriculture, a sustainable food chain, should look like. we should talk about how we can support a reduction in pesticides with alternatives and innovations, new breeding techniques and digital technology, without losing harvests, without reducing the quality of our products, without increasing hunger or farmers losing income, or how we can support farmers on their path to more sustainability and create generational equity for younger farmers. i would also like to share with you how we can maintain sustainable production of good, healthy, safe food here in europe and avoid displacement effects. i would also like to emphasize the good cooperation between the environment committee and the agriculture committee. i think the result shows that you can find compromises when agriculture, environment and climate change come together well. but i think that this debate is also, instead, - i want to put it diplomatically - overshadowed by the unfortunate approach of the european commission, which has withheld information for months and has not published a study that was already there in january. i am disappointed in this and i ask you to change the situation, to improve it, to submit a comprehensive impact assessment as soon as possible.
madam president, today we are concluding, with this debate, the european parliament's opinion on the farm to fork strategy, and in the coming months the legislative documents will arrive. i would first like to thank all the rapporteurs and our technical teams for the great willingness to work together. i would point out that the possible problems and difficulties which these changes will create have been identified. we therefore think it important that the commission, madam commissioner, should draw up impact studies on all the measures adopted on the basis of this strategy and that those already drawn up should be incorporated. the final result is not what we socialists would have wanted, but it is where we have found the balance agreement, and we have added important elements. it is essential that the impact of the strategy does not prevent agricultural markets from being stable, with fair prices along the entire food chain, starting with farmers, and hoping that the consumer, which is all of us, does not get prices that are impossible to bear. we are also concerned that, as an undesirable effect, the strategy will weigh on the competitiveness of european production in relation to imports from third countries, whose producers are not subject to these requirements, as we know very well in this house. in short, we must make important commitments in agriculture to achieve good results in our fight against climate change, as indeed happens with the other sectors. that is why the european green deal is so important. this process must be accompanied by alternatives and public support to achieve a just ecological transition for european agriculture. otherwise, it won't be possible.
madam president, as greens, we of course fully support the farm to fork strategy, even though it is not perfect. the report on which we have worked this past year even goes beyond the strategy, and we applaud this. but, as is clear today, the report is under attack. this really is a shame, especially considering the current context – the cap reform. many member states are currently protesting behind closed doors. they don’t want the targets of the farm to fork strategy to be considered for the national strategic plans of the cap. so, as parliament, we should be fully backing this strategy, instead of questioning its targets. because as members of the parliament we have a responsibility towards small producers, who would like to have perspectives and support in becoming more resilient and sustainable. we also have a responsibility towards citizens, who deserve healthy and sustainable food and transparency. we should be the ones following the science, which clearly says that our food system needs an ecological transition. so, dear colleagues, support this text as it stands. don’t sabotage this ambitious report. let’s show the commission, the council and the citizens that we stand behind this green deal.
madam president, with this dossier on the european strategy for healthy and sustainable food, the green pact is developing its agricultural component at a rapid pace. we can partially join in, and we have clearly done so by imposing new elements or voting on some common sense proposals on the need to shorten supply chains, to promote the diversification of seeds and crops, to create strategic food stocks, and thus to support european producers. but behind these proposals lie two major risks. the first is the excessive penalisation of european yields by inconsistent legislation on plant protection products and antibiotics and on land use change. ignoring global policy data, recent impact studies are worrying in this respect. the second very serious aspect is that this text is essentially geared towards a new mode of feeding based on the constraint of harmonised and mandatory indicators, such as the nutriscore, an index which we would very much like to consult for reassurance and which, in fact, holds us hostage by its diktat. for example, organic meat from charolais or french aoc roquefort is rated 'inedible', unlike industrial food. this is because upstream we are seeing the criminalisation of livestock farming under the influence of lobbies such as mr dustin moskovitz's opp foundation. all this to obtain a 100% artificial food. the commission will then be able to vote on the proposal subject to two conditions: a prior impact assessment and the abandonment of mandatory harmonised indicators.
madam president, some may not know that sri lanka has managed to overtake the european commission as a major global environmental leader with its farm to fork strategy. the decision by the government to abolish all pesticides at once and become the first country in the world to produce 100% agro-ecologically was unanimously and enthusiastically applauded by the european union, the united nations and even the fao. the country is facing an unprecedented food crisis: production has fallen by 50%, food prices have skyrocketed and ration cards are being handed out. a miscalculated populist decision has led the country to food collapse: sri lanka has painfully understood that food is not to be played with. the events in that country should make us reflect on the need to analyse in depth the impact of some of the european commission's flagship measures, such as the 50% reduction in pesticides, the withdrawal from production of 10% of the area or the target of 25% of the agricultural area devoted to organic farming. the studies and reports on the impact of the farm to fork strategy follow one another and it should be a matter of concern that they all agree that it is not based on sound and scientific criteria. the debate will intensify in the coming months and i am confident that the european commission will be able to bring all this into line, to put some realism into the situation, to see the fundamental role of livestock farming and producers and, as i say, to rationalise a very dangerous process.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a farmer who left the it sector ten years ago to become a farmer said last week: i have decided to stop modernising and developing my farm because i do not know what to expect from those who live in their bubble in brussels and we will go on with our daily lives as best we can. that is where we are, commissioner, with regard to the farmers' perception of what we are discussing in the european parliament and the european commission. the green deal and farm to fork are a concept that is rightly troubling the agricultural sector. it is questioning whether it will be able to survive the targets imposed on it to achieve the climate goals, which are also important, without question. but we need to send a clear message today: that we are responsible and that we will ensure that farmers will maintain their sustainability and beyond, that they will be able to produce quality food - and i stress this here - at affordable prices for the consumer. any failure to do so will make us dependent on imports of poor quality food from third countries, and climate change will continue to affect our daily lives. in this context, i expressly request that impact studies be carried out before any decision is taken with regard to the agricultural sector.
madam president, madam commissioner, the 'farm to fork' strategy is at the heart of the green deal for europe and i will vote in favour of it, because i am convinced that it is our duty as elected representatives to rethink our food systems, based on the lessons learned from the health crisis and taking into account the various red flags that have been raised in recent years in terms of health, biodiversity and climate. it is essential to change agricultural and food models and to move them in a sustainable direction, while, of course, accompanying farmers in these changes and raising consumer awareness. yes, because we will have to learn to produce and consume differently if we are to meet the climate challenge that is before us. agriculture must become even more virtuous, less chemical, but also more respectful of human health, the environment, water, soils and biodiversity, as well as ecosystems. let us not be mistaken. the vote on the 'farm to fork' report is an important step forward. we shall see whether or not the european parliament agrees to put in place the tools needed to build the world of tomorrow. and i want to say here: the solutions are in nature, not in the technological whole or the genomic whole. the general interest must prevail, and this in order to offer a future for future generations.
mr president, after the failure of a real reform of our agricultural policy, the farmer-to-table strategy is finally good news for farmers and for nature. the current model is a disaster for our climate, for biodiversity and for small farmers. with this strategy, we're expanding organic farming to 25% by 2030 and we're also giving farmers a higher income. we're going to halve pesticide use by 2030 and we're going to launch an export ban on harmful pesticides. we're going to make healthy and sustainable food tax-free and we're finally going to stop caging animals. ladies and gentlemen, do not be fooled by the agro-industry lobby. this is an opportunity to give farmers a fair income with respect for the environment and nature. so let's take that chance together.
madam president, madam commissioner, this strategy is seriously unbalanced. it has an excess of ideology and a great lack of scientific backing. this has been shown by numerous studies, including the european commission's own study, whose worrying conclusions we have tried to conceal. mr timmermans is prepared to approve it, come what may. but the losers, mr timmermans, are the millions of european farmers and their families, whose incomes will be cut. the european agri-food sector is the one that is falling, losing its export share while european supermarkets are being filled with inferior products from outside europe. the ones who are falling, mr timmermans, are the millions of european consumers, who will have to pay ever higher prices to fill the shopping basket. the spanish people's party and the spanish delegation to the european people's party are not prepared to allow this.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, first of all, a big thank you to all the political groups, the alternative rapporteurs and the teams for the excellent work they have done on this dossier. we are debating today the proposal for social and employment policies in the euro area in 2021. i would like to stress once again that this is the starting point for laying the foundations of this new europe, this new economic and social framework which we must build together and urgently, because the situation has changed, and we must adapt and anticipate, creating the conditions which will allow stable, dignified jobs to be created and which will also allow people to live in dignity. we have no excuses. we must address the profound social consequences of the pandemic, which has also ridden on previous crises, by offering policy solutions that leave no one behind, no matter where they live. it is our historic duty to improve the welfare of all citizens. we must continue to work on the new road map, in which social rights and equity prevail, if we are to build a europe with a future. and we can only do that by insisting on the need to design our economic policies with social conditionality in mind. this was necessary before covid-19 and it is even more so now, because we are talking about people and we know that economic policies have a differential impact on social groups and, also, on people, because we do not all have the same preferences, interests or desires, not all people have the same access to resources or decision-making space, nor have we been socialized or prepared in the same way or to have the same role in society, as we very well know women. when we go out into the streets, we see that there are still families who do not make ends meet, fathers and mothers who cannot give their sons and daughters the education they would like. the consequences of the pandemic have in some cases opened up and in other cases widened deep gaps that already existed within the union. we are risking our future, our well-being and the consolidation of the european project. if inequality continues to increase, it will make us weaker, and if we don't stand up for the well-being of our society, or a gender-sensitive economy, or opportunities for the most vulnerable, we will be burdening the opportunities of everyone. it is urgent that our economy includes macroeconomic indicators which, from their design, incorporate or mitigate the unequal consequences of economic policy between different social groups, individuals, economic sectors or territories, reflect the reality of our society and take into account all citizens. it is the people who are building europe and we, their representatives, must live up to that. i will highlight a dozen key points in this report. first, the european semester must be aligned with the objectives and strategies of the sustainable development goals, the european pillar of social rights and the green deal, and support member states' recovery plans. secondly, the semester should be based on an approach that integrates economic, social and environmental policies and promotes structural change so that social progress, sustainable development and well-being take into account the root causes of long-term economic and social imbalances. only then can we ensure that europe continues to enjoy the most advanced welfare systems in the world and also becomes the first climate-neutral continent. third, we must therefore work with indicators that cover the social risks that arise from the effects of the pandemic and from previous imbalances in the economy, employment, health, as well as the transformations that green and digital transitions can bring about. fourthly, our current social indicators do not provide clear targets for measuring the impact of european union action and we call on the member states to set ambitious national targets. fifthly, along these lines, we believe that sustainable welfare should be integrated into the annual strategy for sustainable growth and into the country-specific recommendations. the national reforms must therefore be clearly oriented towards solidarity, integration and social justice, with the aim of creating quality employment, fixing it to the territory and moving towards a new social organization of care so that it does not fall unrecognisedly on women. sixthly, inequalities, as well as the labour, social and health situation in the member states concerned, must be taken into account before the decision to deactivate the general safeguard clause is taken. seventhly, we must work to establish a european fiscal capacity that provides stability to the economies of the euro area. well-designed tax systems are essential to ensure a high level of protection for workers against risks throughout their lives, and also for their pensions. eighthly, we must protect individuals and also small and mediumsized enterprises so that they do not become over-indebted and because we know that they need support in the case of non-performing loans. ninthly, we must tackle the need for coherence between the objectives of sustainable welfare and monetary policy. we need to better integrate social objectives, social progress, welfare and sustainability into all european union policies, especially in budget planning to make public investment in social and environmental objectives efficient. and tenth, and last, the architecture of the new governance of the european union must be based on solidarity, social justice and integration, with equitable distribution of wealth, gender equality, high quality public services - including a high quality and universal public education system - decent employment and sustainable growth. that is why we consider investment in sustainable welfare to be vital. the landscape has changed and with the digital and ecological transitions looming it will change even more. we need new recipes because we know the old ones didn't work.
mr president, the cultural sector has been hit by the pandemic, and that is why we have been calling for months for the urgent establishment of a european framework guaranteeing artists a decent job: without this framework there is no cultural health and no democracy possible because artistic creation is much more than entertainment or a craft, it is a fundamental part of the social debate. so we're concerned that freedom of expression is threatened by an economic context that makes the creative process difficult, but also by the rise of increasingly reactionary forces. just a few days ago, in spain, a judge, at the request of an ultra-catholic organization, ordered the removal of dozens of books on lgbtqi issues from eleven schools. improving the situation of culture means improving the situation of artists, yes, but also guaranteeing freedom of expression which is the raw material of their work; otherwise, what will need to be saved urgently is our democracy.
mr president, the cultural sector and its workers were already in a very precarious situation before the covid-19 crisis, but the necessary containment measures have, as other colleagues have said, created a real catastrophe. in some sectors the destruction has been almost complete, with losses of up to 90% in the performing arts sector in the year 2020, or 75% in the cultural sector. bold measures are therefore urgently needed. the commission should encourage the channelling of funds from the recovery and resilience facility, at least 2%, in order to ensure a balanced recovery at european level also in the cultural field. we do not want to return to a general situation of precariousness for the sector. we must guarantee the right to collective bargaining for all workers in the sector. it is not acceptable that competition policy should apply to selfemployed workers who, in an organized way, propose to establish minimum rates for certain services. it is therefore important that the commission takes a broad approach to the review of competition law. we also call for a proposal without delay on the european status of the artist, which includes all cultural workers and guarantees minimum standards of social and labour protection and, of course, recognizes the right to collective bargaining.
mr president, the polish judiciary is in revolt: they will not accept the european legal order, but they are not doing so to protect their workers, who by the way have one of the lowest wages in the whole eu, or to challenge rules that have left years of austerity thinning social welfare states - pensions, health, education... - they are doing so because they want to deepen their authoritarian plan. in a few weeks it will be a year since they made abortion illegal; to this is added the harassment of lgbt people, the limitation of press freedom, the racist anti-migration discourse, the control of justice... the polish government wants to have a free hand to violate human rights, but it does not give up on us paying for the party together. so, at the end of the day, this is not about legal limits and sovereignty, this is about an open war on rights, and there is no doubt about it: the defence of human rights calls on all of us democrats, without borders. the fact that they are being fulfilled in poland is a duty and a driving force for those of us who are still determined to build a fraternal europe and a europe of equals. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr prime minister, you have crossed a red line. the latest challenge to the institutions of poland is another unacceptable attack on democracy, the rule of law and the european union. president von der leyen, it is urgent to react to the model of illiberal democracy which has already planted too many seeds in europe. so today i would like to invite you to look up. in the european union, he has been jailed for protesting, organising a referendum or rapping. the right of asylum is being violated. there are meps who can exercise their mandate throughout the whole of the territory except in their own house. in the european union, journalists have been killed for investigating power and the corruption of fugitive monarchs is covered up. all this is happening in the european union. let's put aside the double standards. we need an effective rule of law monitoring mechanism for all member states. the seeds of authoritarianism are already germinating and are cracking the foundations of the european project. to be a europeanist today is not to accept inaction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, stop this senseless persecution of any country that refuses to sell its sovereignty: today it is poland, tomorrow hungary and the day after tomorrow it will be anyone who stands up to defend the nation. the fatherland is the last defense of the humble. it is a shame that this house treats poland more harshly than the chinese communist tyranny or the drug dictatorships of the iberosphere. i repeat: the member states do not work for brussels. the democratically elected polish parliament does not work for a commission elected in secret. it is brussels that is at the service of the member states; the european union is not a superpower, it is not that one ring that controls everyone, which is what you would like: it is just an international treaty in which twenty-seven sovereign states put things together to do things together. and of course the constitution of each member state is above that. i too believe that spain's historic constitution, which dates back to the dawn of the middle ages, is above the treaties. today, we common sense people are fighting for our freedom and democracy in the fields of poland, but not against soviet battleships, but against a legion of bureaucrats who want to rob us of the freedom of our nations and the primacy of our constitutions.
mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, by joining the european union all the member states - including poland - have accepted a set of principles and values, including the primacy of community law and respect for the rule of law and individual rights and freedoms. since then, membership of our union has enabled all member states - including poland - to benefit from a number of advantages, including the receipt of european funds. what you and your party have wanted for too long is to get out of the commitments and continue to enjoy the benefits. benefits which, by the way, i did not hear you enumerate in your speech, mr prime minister. i advise you to call your former partner, david cameron, who has taken a train: the train of populism and blackmail. the same one you're climbing right now. and i also advise you, when you speak to him, to tell him the regrettable consequences of not being able and not knowing how to get off that train to your country in time. and you're still in time to get off that train to poland. and do it before it's too late, because you already know what the last stop is. madam president, after what we've heard today, there's very little more i can say. i simply say that if the commission does not act now - (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker) -
mr president, poland is a union state which no longer has minimum guarantees to preserve the separation of powers: the courts are politically influenced, gender and lgbti rights are systematically violated and the state of emergency has even been used to prevent the flow of migrants by flouting european asylum legislation. the judgment of 7 october this year denies the rule of law in the union and is a very dangerous precedent for the coherence of european union legislation. the use of the judicial system for political purposes is completely deplorable: this is the case in poland and other countries, such as spain, where the renewal of the general council of the judiciary is currently being paralysed by partisan media coverage. the commission and the council could have acted better and more effectively: the council should now give priority to the crisis of the rule of law in poland and declare that there is a serious risk of violation of article 7, and the commission should initiate an infringement procedure in relation to the legislation on the polish constitutional court, and so we ask you, mrs von der leyen, to activate the rule of law conditionality regulation.
mr president, mr morawiecki, you are somewhat confused about the system of sources of community law. the european union is not a state, but it is not a book club or a bad marriage. do you think that without the principle of primacy, without the obligation to apply eu law in full, you would have the right to veto other governments in the european council? or does he think that he can subjugate others or receive funds without fulfilling his obligations? his is a free rider government that pretends to go free, a subversive and opportunistic government with authoritarian tendencies. i am not surprised that he questions the founding values of this community when they do not interest him, because he already questions his own for the same reasons when he handpicked the judges of the constitutional court to follow his dictates, declares areas free of lgbti ideology or violates the rights of women. mr. morawiecki, you are harming your people with absurd, 19th-century megalomaniacal fantasies. the time of the super-states is over and poland needs the european funds - european funds, i insist - to get out of the crisis.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, mr prime minister, i shall not go into the nationalist clique you have given us this morning, but i shall deal with the question of the primacy of community law. i'd like to ask you, mr. prime minister, what kind of club do you think you've gotten yourself into? i am sure that at some point, at the time of poland's accession, you must have read the schuman declaration of 1950, which says that the european coal and steel community is the first step towards establishing a federation in europe. and i am sure that you have also read the treaty of rome, which spoke of ever closer union; and that you have read the case law of the court of justice on the primacy of community law (for example, the famous judgment in the costa/enel case), and that, consequently, our union is integrated by law. imagine what would happen if all the constitutional courts in the union did the same as the one in your country. there would be no integration by law and there would be no european union. what can be done about this? the president said so. you are right: this judgment of your court must be referred to the court of justice of the european union, which, by the way, has not been appointed by this european parliament. the commission has not yet made any statement on this. no one named him but you. because you appoint one of the members of the court of justice, together with the other 26 governments of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. on 7 october 2021, the polish constitutional court, declared illegitimate for its lack of impartiality and its direct subordination to the pis government, ruled that the provisions of the treaty on european union are incompatible with the polish constitution and that the court of justice of the european union interferes with the polish judicial system and violates the principle of the rule of law, the primacy of the polish constitution and the principle of respect for national sovereignty in the process of european integration. the commission has also proposed that the polish authorities should be given the possibility to impose a fine on the applicant for breach of the obligation to provide information. this decision has serious consequences for the legal order of the union and the protection of the rule of law in poland and has therefore been rejected by the european commission, the european parliament and the member states. i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission and the council to take strict measures against poland in order to restore the primacy of european law and to ensure the separation of powers and the rule of law in poland.
in writing. on 7 october 2021, the polish constitutional court, declared illegitimate for its lack of impartiality and its direct subordination to the pis government, ruled that the provisions of the treaty on european union are incompatible with the polish constitution and that the court of justice of the european union interferes with the polish judicial system and violates the principle of the rule of law, the primacy of the polish constitution and the principle of respect for national sovereignty in the process of european integration. the commission has also proposed that the polish authorities should be given the possibility to impose a fine on the applicant for breach of the obligation to provide information. this decision has serious consequences for the legal order of the union and the protection of the rule of law in poland and has therefore been rejected by the european commission, the european parliament and the member states. i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission and the council to take strict measures against poland in order to restore the primacy of european law and to ensure the separation of powers and the rule of law in poland.
in writing. on 7 october 2021, the polish constitutional court, declared illegitimate for its lack of impartiality and its direct subordination to the pis government, ruled that the provisions of the treaty on european union are incompatible with the polish constitution and that the court of justice of the european union interferes with the polish judicial system and violates the principle of the rule of law, the primacy of the polish constitution and the principle of respect for national sovereignty in the process of european integration. the commission has also proposed that the polish authorities should be given the possibility to impose a fine on the applicant for breach of the obligation to provide information. this decision has serious consequences for the legal order of the union and the protection of the rule of law in poland and has therefore been rejected by the european commission, the european parliament and the member states. i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission and the council to take strict measures against poland in order to restore the primacy of european law and to ensure the separation of powers and the rule of law in poland.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the tourist industry. madam president, commissioner hahn, we all know the huge impact that covid-19 has had on european transport and tourism, sectors that are very important for the proper functioning of our internal market. transport accounts for about 5% of european gdp and tourism for about 10%, and both employ millions of europeans; to top it off, the need to move towards a more sustainable economic model is imperative, and that implies a great effort by these sectors in investment and planning at european and national level, so there is no other way: the 2022 budget must be the budget for european socioeconomic recovery. in transport, we have important challenges: developing european corridors, deploying alternative fuel infrastructure, improving passenger transport and freight distribution through multimodality, making infrastructure more resilient to climate change and adapting it to technological advances such as self-driving cars; fortunately, we have the european transport agencies afe, aesa and aesm, whose role is key in this transformative process, and we need their budget to reflect this.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, president biden once said, "don't tell me what you value. tell me your budget and i'll know what you value". and indeed, it's something i believe in too. this parliament is seeking a budget which is precisely in line with our values and our standards. for this reason, i am pleased that we have reached agreement to introduce a reserve for frontex of eur 90 million with conditions relating to the appointment of human rights observers, a clear procedure for the suspension of operations in cases of serious or systematic violations of human rights and the appointment of deputy directors. i think that parliament should strongly support this position and also provide easo with the resources and staff necessary to fulfil its mandate.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the european union has chosen to lead the world’s fight against global warming, and events such as the recent floods in germany or the wildfires in greece remind us of the urgency of this challenge, but our union has decided that the effort in this fight falls mainly on the shoulders of the member states, and not those of the european union. this creates an important challenge: how to preserve the integrity of the single market. if we weaken state aid rules to allow member states to help without limits their businesses with a green transition, we will pit one member state against another. this will have the obvious results. all european taxpayers will lose and all european businesses will move to the richer states. the purpose of this resolution we discuss today is to help the european commission find an equilibrium between supporting the green transition of our businesses and preserving the single market, because that flight of businesses to the richest member states, that end of the level playing field, would be the end of that single market. our message is that europe today needs to confront the challenge of climate change courageously, but it must find ways to do it in a way that is economically and socially sustainable. to ensure that this is the case, you the european commission, ms vestager, must continue to enforce our common rules. you must ensure that all businesses in our union, small and large, east and west, north and south, have the same support for the green transition. avoidance of the collapse of the single market is in your hands.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the role of public finance in climate goals must take into account clear guidelines on who and how will use those public resources ; it must be the engine that drives the transition, not a mechanism to keep doing business: we need transparency, considering cultural differences, the differences between the rural and urban world, the tremendous and growing economic inequalities, the capacity of smes and small businesses... the change of model is more necessary and urgent than ever: meeting emission reduction targets, seeking efficiencies... but it must not only fight energy poverty and, in addition, be environmentally sustainable, it must also be socially just; it must be produced on the basis of renewable sources and not fossil fuels, but this cannot be done in any way, making it the new boom of speculation or destroying natural environments: we need global planning. in spain we have seen reservoirs emptied to sell renewable energy at the price of coal, making it inaccessible to the public, while billions of nextgenerationeu funds are being raised. we need to put an end to oligopolies, speculation and revolving doors: we need to convert these funds into a new generation of rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr minister, commissioner, it has been a pleasure to hear from you after just over a week ago the united nations human rights council first recognised the right to a healthy, safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment as a human right essential to the full enjoyment of all human rights. i would also ask the house, as has been said here, to incorporate it into the universal declaration of human rights. that is why this debate is so necessary, ladies and gentlemen, today. it is necessary because most of our member states have recognised the right to a healthy environment in their laws and constitutions. the question is why it is not included in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the fact that the constitution of a member state recognises the right to a healthy environment implies that this right is respected in the application of national law. we therefore need the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to recognise a substantive right to a healthy environment, because it is this charter that ensures that it applies when we are talking about european law. something was said here this morning, also with a certain gentleman i won't name. the climate and environmental crisis, the need for the union to also take a leading role in the global fight against climate change and biodiversity loss, and the degradation of nature, force us to consider the role of environmental law more broadly in our european legal system. we are asking for two things: that it be included in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and that it be supported, that it be part of the universal declaration of human rights. we are thus defending the individual against the authorities, we are seeking european state protection against private industry and we are creating the minimum legal infrastructure necessary to defend this right. i believe that today we are beginning a path that will lead us to proclaim the right to a healthy environment as a fundamental right, as a human right and as a universal right that we need. it is worth having this debate, and i thank the commission and the council again for the sensitivity and commitment i have seen in their words.
excuse me colleague, i have been pointed out that you’re speaking out of the topic of tonight, which is the right to a healthy environment. so please try to make a link to the topic. ok?
(parliament rejected the request for an early vote) i have just said that what you said is not related to the subject of our debate this evening. you can continue, but in connection with the theme of tonight's debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, minister, the right to a good environment is recognised in the constitution in most of our countries, and this parliament has just approved an amendment to the aarhus convention on access to justice in environmental matters. the recent un resolution, which recognises the right to a healthy environment, would therefore be a symbolic issue if we did not know that every globalist initiative hides much more than it appears: in reality, a strategy to systematically impose a specific economic and social model. recognising empty content rights is not recognising rights. they have made the environment a hostage of those multilateral bodies which use legitimate concerns to divert attention from real priorities. they multiply environmental regulations on families and businesses, but they are silent on china, the most polluting country. they blame the states, but they submit to the multinational giants. the united nations rapporteur for the protection of human rights is a proliferation of unnecessary bodies. but the price of energy is rising exponentially because of the limitation of emission rights imposed by brussels, and in a few weeks millions of europeans and their families and businesses will be adding to the ranks of energy poverty. 'poor but sustainable' is going to be the new motto of the united nations. they are responsible for rural exodus and the dismantling of our productive fabric, they criminalize farmers and cattle farmers, they allow unfair competition from non-community products or they promote criminal eating habits such as not drinking good wine, good oil and good meat. but europeans do not want more empty rights, they want a secure future, water, to keep their farms, to work and compete. and they demand that we protect them, not sell them to the multinational giants and extra-community powers.
in writing. the spanish socialists in parliament are leading this initiative to have the right to a healthy environment recognised in the eu charter of fundamental rights, article 37 of which does not proclaim an autonomous substantive right but the principle of integrating environmental protection into other policies. we need the charter of fundamental rights, as the guarantor of fundamental rights in the application of european law, to recognise the right to a healthy environment. the climate and environmental crises and the need for the eu to lead the global fight against climate change and biodiversity loss require us to consider the role of environmental law more broadly in our european legal system. similarly, following the adoption of the un human rights council resolution, the eu and the member states should promote the recognition of this right as a human right at international level so that it is incorporated into the universal declaration of human rights. only in this way can the individual be defended against the authorities, can state and european protection be obtained against private industry and can a minimum and necessary legal infrastructure be created.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, once again, congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur, mrs maria da graça carvalho, for your energy and commitment to moving the joint undertakings forward. i very much welcome this fruitful discussion which covered many aspects of european partnerships. i welcome the great interest shown by the european parliament. you have shown this once again with this legislative proposal for institutional partnerships, which i very much appreciate, because it is about active participation. the commission will do its utmost to facilitate the rapid establishment of joint ventures once the regulation has been adopted. to realise their full potential, these partnerships should be launched as soon as possible. any delay in the establishment of the joint ventures will affect the quality of their results and the achievement of their objectives. i am therefore extremely grateful for the excellent cooperation with parliament and i am pleased to see that parliament will adopt its opinion during this part-session. once again, we stand ready to implement the new partnerships in due course. research and industry in the european union are looking forward to it.
the rapporteur madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, such a broad report, covering such different sectors, all of them of great importance, would not be possible without a great deal of collaborative work. i would therefore like to thank all those who have allowed us to be here today to discuss it: the presidencies, first the portuguese and then the slovenian, our commissioner and her services, the shadow rapporteurs and also the itra secretariat, the political advisers, the parliamentary assistants, who have participated so actively and enthusiastically in this work. i leave this debate with the conviction that, despite our differences, we are united in the certainty of the potential of these partnerships for our future. i wanted to make it clear, even to the most skeptical, that none of these investments will be a blank check, that we will be demanding more than we offer, and i don't just mean financial consideration. by making these commitments, we will ensure adequate funding for research activities, including a strong link to fundamental science, but with a focus on finding solutions. we are helping industry to overcome the difficulties caused by the pandemic, in particular as our colleague christian ehler mentioned this morning, the sectors most affected by the pandemic, as is the case with commercial aviation, sectors which we will have to support even more because they are fundamental to our economy and to job creation. but we don't just give, we invest. we don't just provide solutions, we demand them. with these partnerships, we are in fact making alliances with the main players in society, which is industry. we have given them the means to successfully implement the major changes that are expected of them, but we have done so with the expectation that in this process they will be the driving forces behind the european construction we aspire to.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 20 october 2021. the final vote will be held on thursday, 21 october 2021.
the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
i would also like to announce that with regard to the decisions by the various committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71 (1), announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 18 october: received requests for two votes in parliament under rule 71 (2) from the green group and the left group following decisions of the libe committee to enter into negotiations on the proposal for a regulation on the strengthening of the mandate of europol and on the proposal for a regulation on the strengthening also of the mandate of europol, the first concerns cooperation with private parties, the processing of personal data and support for research and innovation, and the second concerns the entry of alerts into sis. the votes will take place tomorrow in the first sitting of the 9th ballot. 45 to 11. 00.00 hours as regards the other decisions to enter into negotiations, i have not received any request for a vote in parliament from members or from a political group or groups reaching at least the average threshold. the committees may therefore enter into negotiations on the basis of these reports.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on preparation of the european council meeting of 21-22 october 2021 (2021/2888(rsp)). i would like to remind all colleagues that for all the debates of this part—session there is not going to be a catch—the—eye procedure and blue cards will not be accepted. and also, as has happened, we will see some interventions remotely from different liaison offices of the parliament in the different member states.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, from tomorrow, leaders will meet in brussels for the october european council, where they will discuss the key issues facing the eu and its citizens today and in the future. the meeting will, of course, start with the usual exchange with the european parliament. leaders will discuss the current state of play on covid—19. the vaccination rollout in the eu has been largely successful, but more needs to be done, especially regarding vaccination hesitancy and disinformation. further coordination is also needed with regard to free movement and travel to the eu. given the global nature of the pandemic and the emergence of new variants, international solidarity remains important. the rapid removal of obstacles hampering the global rollout of vaccines is crucial to allow member states to speed up delivery of vaccines to countries most in need. covid—19 has taught us that we need to be better prepared for the pandemics of the future. in this context, leaders are expected to call for the conclusion of the negotiation on the health union legislative package. member states continue to support the strong and central role of the who in global health governance, as well as the creation of an international treaty on pandemics. the hike in energy prices is, without a doubt, one of the most pressing issues for our citizens and industry today. following their informal dinner in brdo in slovenia, leaders will discuss recent developments in energy prices and possible measures at eu and national level, taking into account the recent commission communication. the commission has identified various measures that are at their disposal at national level to mitigate the effect of soaring energy prices. in addition to that, we also expect the leaders to take a closer look at what could be of help at european level, both in the short term and in the medium and long term, to reduce our dependency on fossil fuel. at a more strategic level, leaders are expected to have an open discussion on trade. when it comes to the eu’s global influence, trade remains the most effective instrument in our toolbox. leaders will discuss how to make the best use of this instrument in light of recent experiences. leaders will also assess the implementation of the june european council conclusions on the external dimension of migration. eight action plans for countries of origin and transit have been presented. now these plans need to be made operational and implemented without delay. leaders are expected to call on the commission to present proposals for financing action on all migratory routes and to report regularly to the council in this regard. europe’s digital transformation is also on the agenda, as it is an important driver of economic growth, job creation and competitiveness. leaders will take stock of progress on the digital agenda, including cybersecurity and connectivity, and give a political push to work on existing and future proposals and initiatives. inclusive and sustainable digital policies and digital connectivity remain important. with regard to external relations, leaders will discuss the preparation for the upcoming asia-europe meeting (asem) summit in november and the eastern partnership summit in december. the prime objective of the eastern partnership summit is to demonstrate the importance of the relationship with eastern partners. a united eu position is essential if we want to engage these partners successfully. the leitmotif of resilience, recovery and reform should guide the way. in view of the upcoming cop26 summit, leaders are expected to call for an ambitious global response to climate change, urging major economies that have not yet done so to set ambitious, nationally-determined contributions in time for cop26, to present a long—term strategy for reaching net zero emissions by 2050, and to meet their commitments on climate finance. we will come back to cop26 in our next debate. leaders will also call for an ambitious post-2020 global biodiversity framework ahead of next year’s cop15 meeting on biodiversity in kunming. i very much look forward to hearing your opinions on these important matters.
president of the commission. – madam president, we will be discussing many important topics at tomorrow’s european council. one will certainly be covid. now is an important moment to take stock because we have now reached the mark of one billion doses of vaccines exported from the european union. this is exceptional, because we are the only region in the world – the only one – that has kept exporting vaccine doses throughout all the difficult months we have just overcome. so we really managed to keep our promise to export every second dose that is produced in europe, and to date we’ve exported to 150 countries around the world. of course, we will also be discussing different topics, like cyber or digital. the polish debate we had yesterday, so i will not focus on that. today, i want to focus on the topic of electricity prices, which is very important for us. let me begin with three simple facts. the first fact is that gas prices are, and have always been, cyclical, and they are set by global markets. so it’s not a regional or local phenomenon; it’s a global phenomenon. but, of course, we see that because of the price rise in gas, it is now difficult for many families to make ends meet and we see businesses, for example, at risk of closing. the second fact is that renewables are on a winning path. if you look at solar energy today, it’s 10 times cheaper than it was 10 years ago. if you look at wind power – which, by definition, is more volatile – it is 50% cheaper today than it was a decade ago. the third topic is the question of imports. here, if we look at gas, we see that 90% of the gas we use is imported, while 97% of oil is imported. renewables are home-grown. so these three facts show us that the transition to clean energy is not only vital for our planet, but is also crucial for our economy and for resilience to energy price shocks. what are the causes of the current spikes? first of all, the global economy is recovering from the pandemic and, with that, energy demand is rising. second, we had an unusually long and cold winter, which meant lots of heating, followed by an unusually hot summer, meaning lots of cooling and use of energy, and this affected the entire northern hemisphere. third, the whole world is affected, so this means that irrespective of a country’s energy or climate policies or energy mix, they are affected by the rise in energy and electricity prices. in fact, we see that the prices in asia are even higher than they are here in europe. yet there is something specific to the european situation. if we look at gas and our suppliers, while gazprom has honoured its long-term contracts with us, it did not respond to higher demand as it did in previous years. so europe is today too reliant on gas, too dependent on gas imports. as i said, we import 90% of the gas we use, and this makes us vulnerable. the answer is to diversify suppliers, but also to keep the role of natural gas as a transitional fuel – and we have to debate this in depth – and, crucially, to speed up the transition to clean energy. so the european green deal is, in the mid to long term, a crucial pillar of european energy sovereignty in the 21st century. i was speaking about the mid to long term, but citizens rightly expect us to act now. they want quick responses. therefore, let me turn to the measures we are deploying to address the situation in the short term. our priority is to give relief to vulnerable families and businesses. some measures can be taken very swiftly under the current eu rules. this includes relief for businesses and families – and when i say ‘businesses’, of course i’m talking about smes – through state aid, targeted support to consumers, and cuts to levies and taxes. because, let us remind ourselves that if we look at the price itself, on average one third of the wholesale energy price is set by the market, one third depends on infrastructure and one third, on average, depends on taxes and levies. there are some member states where 50% of the electricity price is taxes and levies. so this is where member states can act very quickly, and 20 of our member states are already doing that. à moyen et long terme, la commission agira dans cinq domaines cruciaux. premièrement, nous devons mettre fin à la spéculation sur les marchés de l’énergie. c’est pourquoi nous renforçons notre surveillance des marchés du gaz et du carbone et nous avons demandé à l’autorité européenne des marchés financiers d’examiner les comportements en matière de négociation de quotas d’émission. deuxièmement, nous évaluerons le fonctionnement du marché de l’électricité. l’organisation de notre marché de l’électricité a donné de bons résultats. toutefois, à l’heure actuelle, les prix du gaz tirent les prix de l’électricité à la hausse. nous avons donc demandé à l’agence de l’union européenne pour la coopération des régulateurs de l’énergie (acer) de réaliser une première évaluation du système à la lumière de l’expérience actuelle d’ici mi-novembre. elle formulera ensuite des recommandations sur la manière de mieux lutter contre l’extrême volatilité des prix. troisièmement, nous établissons activement des contacts avec les fournisseurs étrangers de gaz. equinor norvège, par exemple, a déjà annoncé une augmentation de ses livraisons. et début 2022, nous présenterons une stratégie de dialogue international sur l’énergie, également pour aider les états membres dans leurs contacts internationaux. viertens werden wir uns mit der frage der gasspeicherung befassen. es gibt derzeit keinen europäischen rahmen für strategische gasreserven, wie wir ihn beim öl zum beispiel haben. wir könnten uns besser vorbereiten, etwa durch regelmäßige stresstests unserer speicher- und reaktionskapazitäten, und wir werden neben der strategischen gasreserve auch erkunden, welches potenzial zum beispiel die gemeinsame beschaffung von gas am globalen markt hat – gegebenenfalls auf freiwilliger basis der mitgliedstaaten. wir könnten da nämlich einen großen vorteil am markt nutzen – die skalierungseffekte –, wenn wir unsere kräfte auf europäischer ebene bündeln. auch hier kann ein gemeinsamer europäischer ansatz eine positive, starke hebelwirkung entfalten. schließlich zeigt diese krise, dass wir bei den investitionen in erneuerbare energien mehr tempo brauchen. jedes kilowatt strom aus erneuerbaren energiequellen ist nicht nur eine versicherung gegen steigende energiepreise; es trägt eben auch dazu bei, unsere abhängigkeit von importen zu verringern, und es macht unsere gesellschaft und unsere wirtschaft krisenfester. wir müssen daher mehr tun bei den investitionen in erneuerbare energien und in ein energiesystem mit angemessenen lagerungskapazitäten, ein energiesystem mit grenzüberschreitenden netzverbünden, gesicherter grundlast und flexibler stromerzeugung. und genau das – nämlich diese investitionen – das tun wir jetzt zum beispiel mit nextgenerationeu, unserem aufbauprogramm. in den bisher vorgelegten nationalen plänen – und das sind 22 mitgliedstaaten, in denen die pläne jetzt bestätigt sind – sind 36 milliarden euro gezielt für saubere energie vorgesehen. das beginnt bei grünem wasserstoff bis hin zur offshore-windenergie. schließlich und endlich – und dieser punkt ist mir wichtig, auch wenn er sich vielleicht banal anhört: was auf dem weg in eine energiezukunft – wenn ich es so nennen darf – entscheidend ist, ist echte europäische teamarbeit. denn eine wesentliche hürde sind hierbei die genehmigungen. das hört sich sehr banal an, ist aber ein riesenthema. es dauert im durchschnitt sechs bis sieben jahre, bis eine windkraftanlage genehmigt ist. damit ist sie noch lange nicht installiert, geschweige denn up and running. das muss sich ändern. hier will ich ganz klar sagen: hier sind wir alle mit im boot, das heißt, die lokale ebene, die nationale ebene und die europäische ebene. da ist keiner, der sagen kann: bei mir ist alles in ordnung. wir alle müssen da besser werden. die kommission wird im nächsten jahr deshalb im rahmen der erneuerbare-energien-richtlinie leitlinien zu dem thema genehmigungen vorlegen, meine bitte ist hier, dass wir ganz eng zusammenarbeiten mit dem parlament und mit dem rat, damit das nicht wieder verwässert wird, sodass wir nicht aus dieser genehmigungsfalle oder verlangsamung herauskommen. honourable members, science has been telling us for years that we must accelerate the transition towards a carbon-neutral economy. now the economy is adding another reason to do so. the upcoming cop26 in glasgow will be the moment for the whole world to speed up action, because the world is not yet on track to match our commitments under the paris agreement – we should be fully aware of that. so much more needs to be done to prevent global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 degrees over pre-industrial levels. the european union will bring to glasgow the highest level of ambition. we do it for all future generations, we do it for our planet and we do it for europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we cannot start this debate today about the upcoming european council without looking back at yesterday’s debate with prime minister morawiecki, because at this council, clearly the rule of law risks being the elephant in the room. and let me remind all of you of article 15 of the treaty: ‘the european council shall provide the union with the necessary impetus for its development and shall define the general political directions and priorities thereof.’ on the rule of law, we heard the commission yesterday, and we thank you for that. but the european council has not been giving any political directions at all. our european house is built on a foundation of common values and common rules: democracy, the rule of law, freedom of the media and independence of the judiciary. if we allow this foundation to be taken apart country by country, brick by brick, the entire house we built of peace, of prosperity, of freedom, of opportunity is in danger – and this will not happen under the epp’s watch. this will not happen under this parliament’s watch. now that we see an increasingly divided and toxic debate on the rule of law in europe, it is of the utmost importance that the european council finally takes its responsibility in this regard and gives the impetus and directives they are normally so very keen to give. you call yourself european leaders. well, now, on this very fundamental issue, it is your time to lead. madam vice-president, let me touch upon some other issues on the council’s agenda. on vaccination, for the epp it is clear that we need to avoid the perception of first and second class citizens when it comes to vaccination. europe can be proud that it is at the forefront of the global vaccination drive, that it has vaccinated a large amount of its own citizens while providing vaccines to the world. and let me use this opportunity to thank those doctors and nurses who are currently actually preparing their hospitals for what is going to come in the weeks ahead. but it is worrying that some countries stay behind when it comes to vaccination rates, and we expect all the support needed from the european council to help member states to drive up their vaccination coverage. finally, on energy prices – the cost of simply heating our homes and running our businesses. the current energy crisis is confronting us with the reality of energy dependence in europe. this is not new. it was always predicted that this would have a political price, but now we see what it really means. it is also a warning about a limited ambition when it comes to the energy union, and that we should not include any technology or energy source from our transition plans in the green deal, nor gas as a transition technology. the green deal simply won’t work if it leaves people literally out in the cold, and therefore this council should focus on concrete measures for citizens in the short term, especially those at risk of energy poverty. for the medium term, we should not only discuss our high – and let me say, for the epp, justified – ambitions for 2030 and 2050, but also make sure that we have the conditions and the infrastructure in place to get there. then my last line, madam president of the commission, was including streamlining and speeding up planning permission procedures. you mentioned that in your discourse, and i would like to, on behalf of my group at least, ask you to present those plans as quickly as you can. we need to get to work.
i would like to begin, madam president, as mrs lange has done, by referring to a debate which we had yesterday in this house and which shows the concern of the vast majority of european democrats about what is happening at the moment with regard to the defence and guarantee of the rule of law in europe. we were very demanding yesterday that the commission take action on this matter. we are also here today with the council, to make it a matter of urgency that we should take this matter forward and not allow the future of the european project to be put in jeopardy. we are increasingly faced with a cascade of challenges in our lives and there are many reasons for the european union to act from within, but also from beyond its borders. the plunge in electricity prices pushes us into energy poverty, destabilizes governments, slows economic recovery, breaks political and social support for the ecological transition and exposes our vulnerability in relations with our partners. president von der leyen, two weeks ago you said that the commission was ready to look at ways of decoupling the price of gas from energy. last week the commission presented a package of measures which may be a first step, but which are still totally inadequate. winter is coming and we cannot accept that millions of citizens of the european union are condemned to choose every day between eating or warming up. that cannot happen in the european union. it is time to address the exceptional nature of the situation with exceptional measures. we need a battery of tools to act on several fronts, from reforming the rules of the wholesale electricity market to fighting speculation in co2 emission allowance markets, to setting up a centralised european platform for the purchase of natural gas to facilitate the creation of strategic reserves. and we must also improve our energy security by diversifying energy sources, suppliers and routes, as well as by supporting third countries to accelerate their own energy transitions. the success or failure of global vaccination will also decide the place of the european union in the world. global vaccination has accelerated, but the north-south gap remains very wide. while the european union has managed to vaccinate more than 70% of its population, less than 3% of the population in the poorest countries is protected against the disease. of the 2 billion doses covax planned to distribute to low-income countries by the end of this year, only 300 have been distributed. if there's one thing that the pandemic has taught us, it's that global challenges must be approached from a global perspective. to overcome this pandemic and the threat of disease, it must be eliminated from every corner of the planet. to make the vaccine just another indicator of inequality is, besides immoral, confirmation that we have understood nothing. the longer the virus is allowed to spread, the more likely it is to mutate into new vaccine-resistant variants. now that we've made some progress in vaccination, we have this very important challenge. the next european council cannot forget one of europe's achilles' heels: migration. there will be no solution to the humanitarian drama at our borders until an immigration agreement is reached based on the principles of responsibility, solidarity and humanity. as our group has reminded the european commission today in a letter, the intention of several member states to build walls and allow for unlawful returns violates the most fundamental rights of human beings. the european project was not born to build walls but to tear them down. willy brandt said that mental barriers survive longer than concrete ones. in the face of nationalist populism and euro-phobia, we must use the legal instruments at our disposal, applying the mechanism of conditionality, resorting to legal atrocities and defending judicial independence. in the face of this emergency, with energy prices hitting the most vulnerable, with the unequal distribution of vaccines in the world and with the loss of human life at our borders, we cannot simply go back and forth to nothing. we need commitments to be translated into results, and to do that, do not forget to listen to the voice of this parliament too. (applause) i would like to thank
allow me now to welcome the next speaker in his first intervention in this house as renew group leader: stéphane séjourné.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, before looking ahead to the council meeting, i need to look back and refer minister logar to some remarks that his prime minister, prime minister janša, has made lately via twitter. he has degraded meps. he has promoted ridiculous conspiracy theories and he has used anti-semitic stereotypes. i’m not willing to get used to this kind of political rhetoric. it undermines our democracies and we must call it out for what it is – dangerous populism. i’m happy to hear, minister, that you’re going to discuss disinformation at the council, so i’m sure you can bring it up, or your prime minister obviously can bring it up here. we have seen that democratic values can never be taken for granted, must always be defended, and i am proud to know that my group, but also the majority of this house will agree with me when i say that. yesterday we debated the situation in poland, a country that is turning its back on the eu, even though one should always keep in mind that it’s not the country, which has a huge support for the european union, it is the government that is turning the country’s back on the eu and its values. and we called on the commission yesterday to take strong actions in defence of our treaties. but the truth is that the council also has a role to play. in the council there are some around the table who blatantly violate the most fundamental of our common rules. so i wonder, will the prime ministers and presidents finally, and in all clarity, speak up to them? will the council start finally the hearings on article 7? because the real crisis for our union is when there is no strong response when some deviate from our common values. i would also like to hear some clear words from council members on the human rights crisis at the european borders. people are dying at our borders because of our lack of action. they are being pushed back at the borders, beaten, humiliated, left helpless, and yet no one seems to care. and this needs to stop. europe’s borders and what happens there are our common responsibility. that the human rights of people in need are systematically violated cannot be an acceptable state of play. human beings are not weapons. they are not threats. right now, every dictator in the world has understood that the one thing that the europeans are very much afraid of is to send children, women and men. if they want to put pressure on us, that’s what they will do. but rather than being frightened, we should finally establish a fair asylum system based on human rights and solidarity. and this parliament has again and again proven to be ready. and europe also needs to reduce its dependency on autocrats when it comes to energy. instead of building infrastructure that will tie us forever to the goodwill of not necessarily well-meaning governments, we need to invest in renewable energy at home to help the climate, but also to tackle energy poverty. it is a big problem all over europe. we have the means to solve it. we have done, unfortunately, all over europe, too little for too long and this must change.
in the name of the id group. madam president, madam president von der leyen, mr president logar, before we turn to the council's topics, a reflection on yesterday's debate, since many colleagues still want to touch on that subject today. i think that this house and these institutions should look at the issues raised in yesterday's debate, in the debate we have constantly on poland, with less hypocrisy. because not recognizing the failures and mistakes we have made in the last thirty years in pursuing european integration means not understanding that the situation in which europe is today is the cause of this approach, it is the cause of an approach which, unable to convince the european states and citizens of the goodness of european integration with the goodness of the results, has tried to pursue it by forcing the treaties, using backdoors, which are not exactly the most appropriate way to pursue this objective. and i wonder what many colleagues have to say when they hear what michel barnier, one of the champions of european law, is saying today in his campaign for the french presidency, when he speaks to his comrades, to the comrades of his party, who are here today in the ranks of the european people's party, about the supremacy of french law over european law. i think it would receive a very different treatment from the one we are giving today to poland or other member states that say the same thing. i think that, without hypocrisy, we must recognize, for the sake of the future of european integration, that it is the member states, the national constitutions, that give legitimacy to these institutions and not the other way around, and if we are able to recognize this, i think that european integration will also benefit from it. turning to the council's topics, there are many important topics, but i think one fundamental is missing, which is the economy and economic recovery. i see too much complacency on this issue from european governments and institutions, because it is true that we are now experiencing a period of growth that we have not seen in europe for the last 20 or 30 years, but it is also true that this growth comes after a memorable thunderstorm and that we are still far from recovering employment levels from before the pandemic and in some cases even the pre-crisis levels of the eurozone in 2010. i think we need to reflect more deeply on the sustainability of the socioeconomic model which the union has pursued up to now, that is to say, that of making ourselves dependent on foreign influences through a mercantilist model, because someone has to absorb our enormous trade surplus. quickly on to the other issues. energy and costs: i do not believe that the situation we are in today is a temporary and exceptional one. i think that unfortunately it is becoming a structural situation, which can continue in the medium to long term, and if even a prestigious newspaper like the economist on the front page questions the effectiveness and the basis of the green transition proposed by the european union, i think we must reflect on the pragmatism of this transition. the last two themes: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. on immigration, i am very pleased that at least the european council has finally decided to change course and to change approach and has understood that the only way to solve this problem is to protect our external borders. illegal immigration is illegal, it is against our rights and we must fight it. the last point: the external relations. the indo-pacific is a key issue, and i believe that the council must continue to cooperate with the quad, not perhaps following the whims of a president like macron, because it is essential that europe takes an active part in countering the chinese regime and its expansionism.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that this morning's debate starts as we left it yesterday, again talking about poland. it's a kind of a fixation. this week in this session we are talking about poland every day, in every way, even when it is not on the agenda, because there is probably a real fixation on the part of some. i would suggest to the president - and i will do so at the next conference of presidents - that a day be set aside for poland during the parliamentary session so that all colleagues can come here and speak against poland. because that is what is happening, also in the context of a debate like this, on the agenda of the european council, on which, mr president, i have picked up some very important and positive aspects, including from what you have said, and i would like to try to make a contribution, because we should be talking about the real issues that concern the citizens, not about a supposed democracy imposed by brussels and this parliament, which tries to explain to the citizens of the countries that regularly elect their governments, whether in poland or hungary or slovenia, that these governments are not good for the european parliament, for the political forces of opposition, which are putting this mechanism into action. the debate we are having is paradoxical and also offensive to the respect for democratic values which this parliament is supposed to promote. that said, the council has a number of very important points. i would like to start with a fundamental need, which is economic recovery, which is a decisive point. the president of the commission made some very important remarks, which i should like to take up, but also pointed out our position and some serious doubts about the choices being made, starting with the issue of the surge in gas and energy prices, a subject which is certainly a real limit and which is likely to hit our consumers and our businesses hard. i am referring here to the subject of the green transition and i see in your words, mr von der leyen, some fundamental points, but also some limitations in relation to the commission's approach. you have spoken of a real problem, the real problem is the timing of renewable energy authorizations and choices, and it is the issue that makes the green deal approach uncredible. because if we have that timeframe - six or seven years - to be able to carry out a renewable energy intervention, we are certain that the programming put in place is a programming that will not find its implementation. and this also concerns another very important aspect to which you referred, namely third party supplies, on which a clear framework for europe is needed, bringing to the agenda of this debate and of this parliament also the question of nord stream 2, together with many other issues concerning the external supply of energy and gas, which are decisive for the credibility of this plant which we are carrying out. and i want to focus on another important issue: the issue of immigration. the statements are acceptable in principle, but in march they were postponed to june, in june they were postponed to october, and i do not know when the immigration issue will be postponed to october. we have three problems, three different fronts on which europe is approaching in a wrong and different way. the first is the relationship with turkey, where erdoğan seems to be dictating the agenda even with his statements, because he is taking into account his attitude, his behaviour to block that migratory flow, a second very dangerous flow, that is, the one that is being used instrumentally by lukashenko in relation to the action that is taking place in afghanistan and the attempt to put in place a serious instrumentalisation of the management of the migratory flow in relation to the countries of eastern europe. and a third front is the mediterranean, where the presence, the importance and the political relevance of russia and turkey are growing, while that of europe is declining, and where a scenario is emerging in which the issue of immigration can once again be used, using the same mechanism. we expect serious answers on this, as well as on the issue of the digital transition, which is another very important aspect. we shall be stepping up the work of the council on this and we shall be doing our work in parliament, with the hope that we can talk about real issues and avoid this debate, which is now paradoxical and instrumental and political against some governments, being allowed to continue for the sole purpose of an electoral campaign which we should try to get rid of in this parliament.
madam president, madam president of the commission, at the next european council you will show how far you are prepared to go to make poland accept the primacy of european law. but probably poland will say to you: "spain can ignore it and we can't?" and you won't be able to answer, because spain ignores the luxembourg court decision that has affected our immunity for months. as a result, poland will feel legitimate to continue to challenge the union. and then, it might be hungary. and then another country, and another... is it really worth seriously threatening the european projects, madam president, just to protect the spanish state and its authoritarian drift through the inaction of the european institutions? and you know the source of the problem; you know it perfectly well. spain is the only, i insist, the only european state with a fascist totalitarian past which has not been able to build its democracy on the defeat of fascism, of totalitarianism. he insists it's the only one. this is not an opinion, it is a historical fact, but a historical fact with dramatic consequences, so dramatic that if you do not stop soon the violations of the rule of law that spain continues to perpetrate today, the bad example of this country will end up mortally wounding the european project.
madam president, i would like to welcome president von der leyen and the minister back to the european parliament. this is an important european council because we see more and more negative impacts of the crisis generated by increased energy prices. people are affected by it. people see their purchasing power reduced and they expect concrete solutions. we had the first debate here in the parliament two weeks ago and the european commission presented their toolbox with many very good ideas last week. i totally support the fact that there should be an investigation into unfair competition practices, and also the approach that we should mitigate the effects on vulnerable consumers, and also the approach that there should be eu coordinated action. but, minister, this week, the european council should allow the commission to do more. firstly, on joint procurement – exploring the benefits of joint procurement is not enough. we need that joint procurement. we need it now. if we purchase together, we are much stronger. the council should give the commission the possibility to move ahead with this sooner. with the parliament, if this is put on the table, we shall of course support it immediately. on energy storage, we also need more concrete proposals, not only for batteries and hydrogen, but also for gas, because that was one of the main sources of the crisis. i completely welcome the approach of the commission on the financing in seeing the emissions trading scheme (ets) as a source of funding to support vulnerable consumers. in the end, let us explore together if we can do during this crisis what we did during corona, to use the eu budget to reimburse some of the expenses which member states had by increasing the co—financing rate and by making eligible some expenses which member states might have to help people in this crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it was right, madam president, that you focused on energy policy today. i would like to use my limited time to highlight another important issue, namely the importance of digitisation. a secure and sustainable digital infrastructure is the foundation of our economy. but it is also clear that the eu is in a global competition for digital supremacy in the future. when we talk about digital transformation in smes, we undoubtedly also have to talk about how the big tech companies behave in the global market and also exploit their dominant position. we all see this every day, whether it's in social media or when we shop online. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information society, such as the creation of a european information society. in order to be able to use and achieve the objectives of the "fit for 55" package, we must rely on new technologies. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. whether it's automated driving or geofencing, we need to take all the opportunities, especially in the area of mobility, where we are the world's biggest driver of emissions, to get there. in this sense, we must, together as the european commission and the european parliament, keep up the pressure on the member states to find a solution.
madam president, what a disgraceful speech mr comín and oliveres made. you have not yet realised that what is at stake in poland is the rule of law, and that is what you broke in catalonia when you were in power. that, the rule of law, the ability of a society to coexist, is fundamental, and that is what is at stake in poland. yesterday, president von der leyen concluded the debate on the rule of law with a pretty shocking comment. instead of proposing bold action, she opened the door for poland's recovery plan to be approved, and the condition she set was simply that the polish government commit to a country-specific recommendation on reforming the judiciary. that would be a terrible mistake. the polish plan cannot be approved until poland recognises the primacy of european union law. let me just read out loud, mr šefčovič, from the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) regulation. we agreed on a regulation which states that the plans to be approved must include member states' systems to prevent, detect and correct corruption, fraud and conflict of interests when using the funds in the facility. mr commissioner and mr minister, how can a country claim to have sufficient controls against corruption if its judiciary is not independent? how can we legally how can you legally argue that ignoring the european court of justice is compatible with the requirements of this rrf regulation? you cannot, because, without a functioning judiciary, we cannot be sure that there is no corruption and that poland will fight corruption. for decades, we europeans have fought for the rule of law, and the key to that fight is the existence of a judiciary and of a european court of justice that defends the treaties. dear colleagues, we should not give an inch on that fight, and that is why we from renew europe call on you, the commission, and you, the council, to reject the polish government's recovery and reconstruction plan until the primacy of eu laws is recognised. european money should not be at risk of being used to perpetuate the polish ruling parties in absolute power.
madam president, the european council will hold, amongst others, a strategic discussion on eu trade policy. this is one of the most important tools we have at our hands to advance globally our agenda on human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with international law. now, this is exactly the opposite to what the eu has done with its fisheries and agriculture agreements with morocco in relation to western sahara. the european court of justice has once again ruled that these agreements were illegal because they ignored its status as an occupied territory to be decolonised, and the commission failed to secure the prior consent of the sahrawi people. i hope that the eu institutions responsible for trade relations finally learned the lesson that also when it comes to trade policy, the european union remains a community built on the rule of law. we will remain vigilant so that the eu does not yet again collide with internationally recognised rights, such as the right to self-determination, because of its desire to develop and maintain close trade relations with certain partners.
i would like to inform this house that mr comín i oliveres has asked to make a personal statement, which i will allow under rule 173 of the rules of procedure, and that means at the end of this agenda item it can be made.
madam president, we are experiencing a dramatic increase in electricity prices; in the basque country we have seen blackouts and citizen mobilizations because it is an issue that affects the most modest economies in a brutal way, and the measures that the commission has presented to us are not aimed at lowering the price of energy, but at mitigating its effects on the household bill, and there they remain. with such skyrocketing prices, the european commission continues to question the marginalist pricing model that causes this price escalation, a model that causes us to pay the megawatt hour at current prices, regardless of whether the energy generation comes from renewable sources, which are much cheaper. lowering vat is not a solution at all; lowering the taxation of electricity companies is a disaster that doubly affects the social security of european families. a couple of weeks ago, 19 members sent a letter to vice-president timmermans and commissioner simson reminding them that the member states do have legal tools to intervene in energy prices in emergency situations such as the present one, and therefore, and in view of the next european council, we must again demand that public administrations get involved, increase their participation in electricity companies and ensure supply to all citizens at affordable prices. the inefficiencies of a market model of the last century, which no longer corresponds to the reality of the 21st century, are more than obvious and are no longer bearable. we must prepare the changes planned for 2030 to move towards the energy transition, and this situation does not put us on the right track; we must seriously talk about a change in the production model.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. just as the commission failed to address the illegal migration crisis in 2015 and made mistakes, too late, we are seeing the same thing now with the energy crisis, with skyrocketing electricity and gas prices affecting the majority of european citizens. hungary won't allow its citizens to pay the costs of the energy crisis, and has implemented a recessionary reduction. although hungary has been and will be criticised by the commission for this, hungarian consumers are feeling the increase in fuel costs today and not the huge increase in energy prices. whereas in berlin, gas or electricity costs twice as much as in budapest, and in vienna, three times as much. although this is a regulatory issue, the commission does not help the member states. the parallel with the illegal migration crisis is clear. hungary has been effectively protecting its external borders for years, and for that, too, it is only being disciplined. now that the eu is facing migratory pressure from the east, protecting the external borders should finally be a priority in order to stop illegal migration as far from europe as possible. the energy crisis or the migration crisis should not become a subject of debate, either in the ep or in the member states.
madam president, there are two threats to recovery: high electricity bills and stagnant vaccination globally. we in europe must act intelligently, not like the spanish government, whose interventionist measures with light only endanger families and businesses. when the sánchez government gets its hands on the economy, prices go up, and the only thing that should be going up is vaccination. we must continue to cooperate with third countries from europe. we should inform better, use the appropriate channels to reach young people and firmly fight fake news that puts health at risk. and speaking of lies and fake news, let me reflect on the role that mr. borrell is playing in venezuela. it has concealed the report of the european external action service, which warns that a european electoral observation mission can help legitimize the fraudulent electoral process in venezuela. he has avoided appearing in parliament, disparaging venezuelan democrats and, in addition, he is hard against leopoldo lópez and soft with maduro. and, moreover, he said that elections in venezuela cannot be like in switzerland. and i ask him, why not? shouldn't venezuelans have the right to freely choose their representatives? this attitude of borrell whitewashes the dictatorship. perhaps the spanish socialists are already comfortable with the venezuelan dictatorship? maybe because he has already started singing the so-called "el pollo" carvajal and acknowledging payments from the regime to former socialist leaders? we still don't know who owns the gold mines in venezuela. what we do know is that the venezuelan regime has a mine of support with socialists like borrell. mr borrell, appear in parliament, defend the democrats in venezuela. and gentlemen of the council, take note.
madam president, mr comín is a serious insult to my country and i must respond. in recent days, the whole of parliament has condemned the lack of respect for the rule of law and democracy that is taking place in a european country. minority rights are being violated and the separation of powers is being violated. that's exactly what happened in catalonia in 2017. the catalan government and a parliament representing less than half of the catalans passed legislation that subjected the catalan supreme court, the judiciary, to the decision of the catalan government. in fact, that president of the supreme court was appointed by the president of the catalan government exactly as has been attempted in poland, first point. and second, the rights of minorities were violated. in fact, half of the catalans. their rights to the protection of public spaces were violated, their linguistic rights were violated, as has been done systematically. the reality is that europe knows a great deal about nationalism and that is why, mr comín, you sit in the non-attached group, because nobody wants you.
mr. president, cop 10 in 2019 ended with many of the big problems still unresolved and since then we have faced a global pandemic, which has shown us the devastating effects of unpreparedness, the interconnectedness between our planet and people, and the great vulnerability to which we are exposed. the loss of biodiversity is accelerating, droughts and famines are worsening, and ice is melting. cop26 in glasgow should mark a before and after in the race against climate breakdown. we have talked a lot about reducing emissions, about climate targets for the next decade, but nothing is materializing yet. the public is watching in disbelief at the lack of determination, ambition and courage. europe must cooperate and be ambitious. to talk about pollution we must talk clearly about who and what is polluting. avoid big polluters turning the cop into a show and sponsorship of its own. we need to talk about environmental justice, but also social justice, which can only come about with a courageous transition from an outdated model. we must close, once and for all, the gap between what we are asked to do and the decisions we make.
mr president, the un climate change conference in november is a unique opportunity for the eu to lead once again, this time to reduce methane emissions, which is the second gas responsible for raising the temperature in the planet after co2. president von der leyen and us president biden have already announced the global methane pledge, an initiative to reduce global methane emissions to be launched at the cop26. the european union and eight countries have already declared their support for the global methane pledge. these countries include six of the top 15 methane emitters globally and together account for over one fifth of global methane emissions and nearly half of the global economy. starting from cop26, methane emissions reduction should be a top priority for the eu’s climate diplomacy. for this reason, it is our duty as the eu to take the lead and proceed with actions within the context of the eu’s diplomacy and external relations. this should follow a un-based path to spearhead a binding international agreement on methane mitigation. the european union has a duty as a global leader to continue to enlist additional countries to join the global methane pledge. the next 10 years will be very crucial. we do not have a second chance because we do not have a second planet.
mr president, like a lot of other speakers, i recognise the importance of cop26, but i am not optimistic about the outcome. on the one hand, we have so many governments who know the right thing to do but don’t know how to turn that to electoral advantage. on the other hand, as was said in france in 2017, there are millions of people for whom the end of the world is far less a pressing issue than the end of the month as far as their pocket is concerned. so it is my view that, until we have a binding, justiciable international agreement based on a minimum carbon price, while acknowledging the specific vulnerabilities of developing countries, we’re setting ourselves up for failure. the paris climate accord is voluntary and based on two degrees of warming that i don’t think anybody believes is achievable at this point. climate change is driving disease, conflict and migration – sometimes all three at once. seeing it as a security issue might help. otherwise, i feel that we are relying on the intellect, the activism and, frankly, the idealism of the next generation to clean up our mess.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like once again to thank the honourable members for raising this important issue in this house. today’s debate has clearly provided additional political momentum. i have listened carefully to your interventions and i am encouraged by your support and by your commitment to maintain the european union’s role as a leader in the field of international climate action. strong and united european union messaging will be instrumental to deliver on our leadership during cop26 in glasgow and beyond. let me briefly address just a few of the many issues you raised today. many of you have mentioned the fact that we need to better mainstream climate into all policies, and i could not agree more. i also highlighted this in my introductory remarks. you mentioned transport, agriculture, trade and many more. this is a collective responsibility, a collective task for us all: the commission, the member states and the european parliament. you have also pointed to the fact that others need to follow our ambition – and yes, this will be our ambition in glasgow, and this is what we are working for at full speed. the eu accounts for only an 8% – and decreasing – share of global emissions. we need all countries to join the global race to zero emissions. if they do, we will all win. this is what my colleague, frans timmermans, is doing right now: reaching out to our partner countries all over the world and encouraging them to join this global race. and here i have to comment on what ms bentele said. she thinks that the eu needs a climate envoy like john kerry. well, let me be very clear: i could not imagine a better climate envoy than frans timmermans already is. he is a respected, efficient and passionate fighter for our common cause, and he’s well supported by the green deal team in the commission, of which i am proud to be part. so yes, we will need to hear from other parties – but also from the private sector – how quickly we can expect the phasing out of coal and the internal combustion engine and how quickly we can expect the phasing in of technologies and energy sources, such as the scaling up of renewables and the production of the use of green hydrogen. finally, many of you have made it very clear today that we have had enough words and we now need action. as far as our eu goals are concerned, our fit for 55 package is our proposal for action. it’s exactly the action we need to translate our noble objectives into concrete steps. so i count on this house and on the council to proceed as efficiently as possible with your legislative work on this very complex package, and i can only reassure you that the commission will assist and support you in this work where necessary. i am convinced that the european commission and the council, under the leadership of the slovenian presidency, will contribute to the adoption of a comprehensive and balanced glasgow outcome, which will ensure an ambitious global response to climate change and which will keep the 1.5°c goal within reach, in line with the paris agreement and in light of science. after glasgow, our work must continue, both domestically and internationally. with our domestic experience and external policy instruments and dialogues, we are in a position to help our partners to advance their transition to a low—carbon, climate—resilient economy. thank you again for the opportunity to have this debate. i look forward to continuing our dialogue in the future.
the chairman of the council. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by thanking you for today's debate. the council looks forward to parliament's contribution to the discussions ahead of the cop in glasgow. we will be carefully considering the resolution you intend to pass shortly. international engagement with strong, rules-based multilateralism is key to achieving successful outcomes in tackling climate change. we all agree that much greater ambition is needed at global level if we are to agree in glasgow on commitments where the 1.5°c target, taken together, is still achievable. but the fact that glasgow will not be the most likely physical presence of president putin of the russian federation, nor the president of the largest, most populous country in the world, china, is not a good way to travel globally to achieve a common goal. on the other hand, the european union is determined to do its utmost in glasgow and to leave with a strong paris agreement and stronger climate ambition at the global level in line with the long-term goals of the paris agreement. thank you so much for discussing this today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place later today and the final vote will be taken tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the 26th united nations climate conference (cop26), taking place in glasgow from 1 to 13 november this year, cannot be another summit marked by grand proclamations, big headlines in the press and focused only on setting ambitious goals, which, while important, are also clearly insufficient for effective and sustainable decarbonisation to happen. a more fine-tuned analysis is needed that leads to actions that ensure a just transition, where the poorest and most disadvantaged do not bear the costs of change, engaging individuals, families and communities in a challenge that structurally improves their lives, not only in terms of air quality and protection from natural disasters, but also in reducing economic and social inequalities and preserving biodiversity. the increase in energy prices that has marked the global post-pandemic economic recovery demonstrates that urgent action is needed, including better regulation of markets and measures to discourage the use of fossil fuels and to encourage clean energy production and energy efficient practices, including investment in better interconnections and storage.
ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, it is a particular honour for me to announce the decision of the conference of presidents of today, to award the sakharov prize 2021 to aleksei navalny, russian anti-corruption activist and an advocate for change. aleksei navalny has showed great courage in his attempts to restore the freedom of choice to the russian people. for many years he has fought for human rights and fundamental freedoms in his country. this has cost him his freedom and nearly his life. on behalf of the european parliament, i call for his immediate and unconditional release. all harassment, intimidation and attacks against the opposition, civil society and media by the russian authorities must stop. today, the parliament has also honoured a group of afghan women, by committing to the organisation of a full week of activities to raise attention to their situation. we are talking about a group of women such as shaharzad akbar, mary akrami, zarifa ghafari, palwasha hassan, freshta karim, sahraa karimi, metra mehran, horia mosadiq, sima samar, habiba sarabi and anisa shaheed. they have all fiercely fought for equality and human rights, and the european parliament wants to honour these women’s bravery, as they are among the first to suffer violations of their most basic rights and freedoms after the taliban seized control of their country. colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, today is testament to the commitment of this house to the people of russia and afghanistan who yearn for a life without fear. we are with you. together we will see that freedom will prevail; that democracy will prevail.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the rise of right—wing extremism and racism in europe (in light of recent events in rome) (2021/2933(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the eu is built on diversity and tolerance. however, extremisms are still present in different forms. the covid-19 pandemic has put our societies under additional pressure and exacerbated risks for extremist behaviour. there is evidence from different sources such as the eu agency for fundamental rights and the council of europe, or the european union serious and organised crime threat assessment (‘eu socta 2021’) by europol, that confirms an alarming increase in intolerance, hatred and extremism in europe. i would like to emphasise that our union was conceived and developed as a project of solidarity, cooperation and tolerance. these values are quintessential to our project and need to be defended in a decisive manner. last december, the european council underlined the importance of combating incitement to hatred and violence, as well as intolerance. at that meeting, the european council stated that it was essential to prevent radicalisation and address the ideologies behind terrorism and violent extremism, including online. it is particularly important to respond to the risk of extremism in a timely manner. we need to react to it at an earlier stage of its emergence. early identification of radicalisation that can lead to violent extremism and even terrorism, and the identification of drivers of radicalisation are of crucial importance. prevention of fertile grounds for radicalisation is also important. extremism and racism are spread, notably over the internet, through disinformation campaigns, conspiracy theories, terrorist content, illegal hate speech, challenging the functioning of our democracy and other possible occasions. as you know, the commission has adopted a number of important initiatives to respond to those challenges, the most recent being the first eu strategy on combating anti-semitism and fostering jewish life. the presidency attaches great importance to combating illegal content online. we aim to reach a general approach on the digital services act by the end of november. on 28 october 2021, the slovenian presidency is organising jointly with the commission a virtual conference to discuss how to effectively combat hate crime and hate speech, with a particular focus on combating hate speech online and on the protection of victims of hate crime. there is no better way to fight extremism and racism than education and open public debate. we have a lot of experience and best practice to share among ourselves to improve democratic resilience, media literacy, critical thinking and conflict resolution skills. i would like to conclude by stressing how important it is to prevent our societies from becoming dominated by hatred. we are therefore obliged to take all incidents of that kind seriously and never ignore them. we shall be respectful to each other.
member of the commission. – madam president, the terrorist attacks in christchurch, hull and hanau are strong and very worrying signals of how violent right-wing extremism is posing an increasing threat globally. recently, violent right-wing extremist groups have also used covid-related conspiracy theories and disinformation to incite violence. in rome, on 9 october, a neo-fascist group used a demonstration against covid-related measures to unleash chaos on the city and attack the headquarters of a trade union confederation. these facts also show that hatred, violence and intolerance are not only hiding in the dark corners of the web or in the inner circles of clandestine organisations. they have become more and more mainstream and risk erupting into public violence and undermining the stability of our democracies. article 2 of the treaty of the european union refers to a union founded on respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, of course. i firmly believe that if we are to uphold our fundamental eu values and to apply the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter, we need a prompt and comprehensive response to the rise of violent extremism, as well as racism and xenophobia. no compromise is possible. this commission decided to tackle these issues openly and on all fronts. from a legislative perspective, the regulation addressing the dissemination of terrorist content online will oblige internet service providers to remove all forms of terrorist content within one hour of receiving a removal order by an eu member state, while making sure fundamental rights are respected. at the same time, under the eu internet forum, guidance to internet platforms on proscribed violent, right-wing extremist groups, symbols and manifestos, is under preparation to support them in their content moderation efforts. the commission is also working with member states to agree on a common, non-legally binding, working definition of violent right-wing extremism, to facilitate their identification and information-sharing about the phenomenon. in september 2020, we adopted an eu anti-racism action plan establishing the main policy actions for the next five years. racism needs to be addressed at all levels of governance and through different measures. that is why the eu anti-racism action plan includes not only legislative measures, but also measures addressing social attitudes, stereotypes and economic concerns. the action plan also refers to ongoing commission initiatives to address extremist propaganda and to support the safety and security of public spaces, like places of worship or other establishments that could be targeted by extremists. the commission has appointed a new coordinator on anti-racism because we would like to have a more direct dialogue with communities and civil society. in addition, two weeks ago, the commission adopted the first-ever eu strategy on combating antisemitism and fostering jewish life. antisemitism is incompatible with eu values. yet, nine out of ten jews in europe consider that antisemitism has increased in their country. with this strategy, the commission is determined to significantly step up the fight against antisemitism. it is europe’s long-term commitment to a safe, inclusive future for our jewish communities and jewish life in all its diversity in the eu. at the same time, we see increasing evidence of anti-muslim hatred throughout the eu. attacks, such as the one in hanau, were also fuelled by anti-migrant and anti-muslim sentiments. the european commission will continue to work with the european muslim community in a long-term commitment to a safe, inclusive future for our muslim communities and muslim life in all its diversity in the eu. furthermore, we often observe a continuum between the spread of hate speech or hateful conspiracies circulating online and episodes of violence or hate crime inspired by right-wing extremist ideologies. racist and xenophobic hate speech is illegal under eu law. the commission is seeing to the proper transposition and implementation of this legislation through dialogue with member states and, where needed, infringement procedures. in the last 12 months, the commission has launched 10 infringement proceedings against member states. with a view to enhancing the criminal law response to hate crime and hate speech, the commission is working on an initiative which aims to extend the current list of eu crimes in the treaties to include hate speech and hate crime. to respond to the online dimension of illegal hate speech, the commission has also developed a voluntary code of conduct with major social media platforms. the code has achieved fast progress on removing online hate speech. we have seen removal rates go up from 28% in our first monitoring in 2016 to a removal rate of up to 71% in 2020. the most recent evaluation, published on 7 october, shows a slight decrease in the average removal rate, while a large majority of the notices were reviewed within the 24-hours prescribed by the code. the proposal for a digital services act tackles all forms of illegal online content across member states. all these initiatives have contributed to progress. we constantly speak to member state authorities, civil society organisations, as well as it companies to address right-wing violent extremism and its manifestation of intolerance and racism. there is no single solution or a single actor that can win in isolation. we have to work together and join forces to protect our democracies and protect our common values.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, allow me to join the presidency in announcing the sakharov prize and in the recognition due to afghan women by this parliament. the first thing i want to say is that i condemn in the strongest and most radical terms the acts of violence that have brought us to this debate. we have full confidence in the action of the italian authorities, who we know are facing this threat with all the determination and with all the legal and constitutional instruments at their disposal to prevent anyone who uses, justifies or exalts violence from having a place in a democratic system. it is now up to us to support italian society and its authorities, and that is what i want to do here. violence is fought with the weapons of the rule of law. he's not offered accommodation on the streets or in institutions. it is a threat to democracy that brings us here to debate, and it is a threat to the security of europeans and their freedoms. in the real world and now, very worryingly, in the digital world as well. we have reason to be concerned, because this radicalism, this fascism in europe, is showing its face in different ways: the face of anti-semitic fascism which threatens and desecrates and wants to perpetuate the violence of persecution against the jews; xenophobic fascism which wants to replace the law with hatred; nationalist fascism such as the one which attacks and threatens young militants of my party in the basque country and silences by force civil organisations defending the constitution in catalonia - as has happened with the shabat! university association recently in barcelona - and that fascist populism which speaks of the people but divides and confronts them. the democratic systems in europe are facing polarizing pressure from the extremes, which are the worst legacy of the totalitarianisms we have suffered. that's why no tolerance, no compromise with those who use violence. not when they say they use violence to defend the nation or when they say they attack police to make social revolution.
madam president, i am sure that it sounds like: defending the european way of life; protecting our borders from the invasion of immigrants; gender violence does not exist and climate change does not exist either; eradicating the lgbti ideology; progressive dictatorship; multicultural dunghill... this narrative is a daily part of our days, it is the necessary framework for the far-right policies to progress, but it is also the previous step for the violent escalation of the new fascisms: attacks on lgbt people, shootings of migrants, justification of nazi and fascist crimes, terrorist massacres and the last episode the assault on the headquarters of the italian majority union. it is no accident that it is against the organisation of workers: the war that the extreme right has launched against rights is certainly directed against the places that represent the interests of working people; they never take the wrong side, always with the elites, always against the people. to eradicate their narrative, to deploy the welfare state, to guarantee rights for all: that is the best vaccine against the advance of the extreme right, and to remind every day that to be a democrat you have to be an anti-fascist.
madam president, madam commissioner, the fact is that reducing methane emissions is a quick and efficient way of combating climate change. the european union is the largest importer of gas and oil. between 75 and 90% of methane emissions are associated with imported fossil fuels emitted outside the union. we must therefore work to bring this into a legal framework, so that our imports are methane-free. for that we need to create that robust regulatory framework. and that's what we've been working on in this strategy. the expected next regulatory proposal from the commission in the energy sector is an opportunity to implement mandatory leak detection and repair measures as well as rules to prohibit venting and burning beyond safety situations with binding objectives. let me also say that neither livestock nor the rural world is to blame for methane emissions. we can work with them. we can take advantage of the opportunities this presents for the rural world in the field of the circular economy and the exploitation of biogas and methane.
madam president, with their struggle, polish women have given us a lesson that we should remember because the far right is obsessed with natalist policies throughout europe. for example, the spanish popular party filed an unconstitutionality appeal against the 2010 abortion law a few years ago to attack women's freedom, end sex education and expand a conscientious objection regime that is already abused by dozens of hospitals; as it has not yet been resolved, they now dream of returning to the restrictive legislation we had in 1985. this week, this house has debated the rule of law in poland. well, the ban on abortion by a constitutional court appointed by the government is completely outside this framework: abortion is a right, not just a health service, and wherever it is violated, the rule of law is violated, whether in today's poland or in tomorrow's spain; therefore, those who want us to serve the family, the country, the nation and religion will have us in front of them. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, commissioner, once again today we are talking about poland. we should certainly denounce again the authoritarian drift of the polish government and its executive arm, the constitutional court. but i won't spend another second with you today. on the contrary, i shall focus my minute of intervention on them. to speak about the fighters, to speak about polish women and to send a very loud and clear message to all of you from the european parliament: we will not leave you alone. we have watched with great pride and admiration as you have mobilized to defend your rights, your bodies and your freedoms. let me be clear. the denial of sexual and reproductive rights is a form of gender-based violence and a violation of human rights. and in this house, human rights are upheld. no woman will be free as long as there are women in subjection. that's why, comrades, we promise you that we will continue to fight alongside you, defending your rights, which are also the rights of all of us. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european court of auditors has painted a worrying picture in the fight against money laundering in the banking sector. despite continuous updates of the rules, europol estimates that the value of suspicious transactions in europe amounts to hundreds of billions of euros, or about 1.3% of the eu's gdp. the european anti-money laundering legislation, which is made up of directives rather than regulations, continues to be implemented in a fragmented and uneven way, while the commission is unfortunately slow to ensure its implementation and to initiate infringement procedures. as the court points out, action is needed to improve the assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing in relation to third countries, as well as on supervisory procedures, the exchange of information, investigations and decisions relating to breaches of european union law concerning credit institutions and financial institutions. closing the loopholes in the banking system to target those who want to convert and move illicit proceeds must be a priority to protect the legal economy.
mr president, commissioner, as with the rule of law, in the fight against money laundering any shortcomings in one member state affect the whole of the european union; it is therefore essential that national supervisors and financial intelligence units against transactions and activities suspected of money laundering have common rules against technological innovation in criminal means. we therefore welcome the commission's proposal: no less than four regulations - this parliament has legislated, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has a record of this - and five criminal directives against money laundering from illicit business, but it is essential, in this package, the authority to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, which is a step forward that could be more ambitious, with more powers of supervision and faster, particularly against crypto-assets and in relation to the travel rule, in its effectiveness against organised crime and against terrorism. finally, i think it is important to stress the recommendation of the fatf, the council of europe and the oecd that the combined efforts of olaf, europol, eurojust and the european public prosecutor's office should make it a reality that crime is not profitable.
mr president, commissioner, tell me, commissioner, what is the actual state of play in the fight against money laundering in the european union? because, believe me, from this desk, she looks completely frozen. scandals are one after another. the indignant appeals are echoing in this house like an endless echo and, above all, without any concrete result. worse, new steps in inaction have been taken. malta, a european country, is on the fatf grey list, the international body for combating money laundering, and there is no reaction from your services. we are also hearing that france and others are pressing for the weakening of the already virgin european anti-money laundering lists of eu states. what is the role of the states? what is the commission's game? tax evasion and money laundering are fuelling the current crisis with the complicity of some eu states. then, commissioner, you must act! the citizens of europe are waiting for you, because it will soon be too late to stop the serious social crises that are bound to arise within the european union.
mr president, commissioner, when more than 1% of the union's gross domestic product is involved in suspicious financial activities, it is clear that money laundering is a serious financial and fiscal problem, but it is also a serious security problem. we therefore need a two-pronged, integrated approach: surveillance and prevention on the one hand and enforcement on the other, so that we can take effective action, from the police and judicial point of view, against money laundering and the underlying crimes. the commission's initiatives are promising in this respect and i hope they will be improved in the parliamentary debate. let me refer in particular to the authority which is called upon to coordinate european action on money laundering, because i believe it is important that it should coordinate and strengthen the capacities which already exist in the union, in particular europol, to combat financial crime through close coordination and information exchange mechanisms which we will have to discuss in due course.
in writing. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is vital for financial stability and security in europe. legislative gaps in one member state have an impact on the eu as a whole. for this reason, eu rules must be implemented and supervised in an efficient and consistent way to fight crime and protect our financial system. the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important. in view of developments in capital markets and technological innovation, and in the run-up to the start of the negotiations on the anti-money laundering (aml) legislative package, this debate has been very timely. ensuring the efficiency and consistency of the eu aml framework is of paramount importance.
in writing. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is vital for financial stability and security in europe. legislative gaps in one member state have an impact on the eu as a whole. for this reason, eu rules must be implemented and supervised in an efficient and consistent way to fight crime and protect our financial system. the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important. in view of developments in capital markets and technological innovation, and in the run-up to the start of the negotiations on the anti-money laundering (aml) legislative package, this debate has been very timely. ensuring the efficiency and consistency of the eu aml framework is of paramount importance.
in writing. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is vital for financial stability and security in europe. legislative gaps in one member state have an impact on the eu as a whole. for this reason, eu rules must be implemented and supervised in an efficient and consistent way to fight crime and protect our financial system. the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important. in view of developments in capital markets and technological innovation, and in the run-up to the start of the negotiations on the anti-money laundering (aml) legislative package, this debate has been very timely. ensuring the efficiency and consistency of the eu aml framework is of paramount importance.
in writing. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is vital for financial stability and security in europe. legislative gaps in one member state have an impact on the eu as a whole. for this reason, eu rules must be implemented and supervised in an efficient and consistent way to fight crime and protect our financial system. the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important. in view of developments in capital markets and technological innovation, and in the run-up to the start of the negotiations on the anti-money laundering (aml) legislative package, this debate has been very timely. ensuring the efficiency and consistency of the eu aml framework is of paramount importance.
in writing. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is vital for financial stability and security in europe. legislative gaps in one member state have an impact on the eu as a whole. for this reason, eu rules must be implemented and supervised in an efficient and consistent way to fight crime and protect our financial system. the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important. in view of developments in capital markets and technological innovation, and in the run-up to the start of the negotiations on the anti-money laundering (aml) legislative package, this debate has been very timely. ensuring the efficiency and consistency of the eu aml framework is of paramount importance.
in writing. let us not be so used to such scandals that we overlook the seriousness of the facts. the nearly 12 million documents publicly exposed in the pandora papers show that those who should be the gatekeepers against money laundering and tax evasion are, in many cases, the ones who make headlines. we, the public representatives of the european union, must act and condemn this in force, both in brussels and in the capitals of the 27 member states. when exploring measures, one of the priorities should be the creation of a european agency, with a solid foundation and sufficient human resources, to monitor such practices. beyond the resolution adopted by this parliament, there is a blacklist of tax havens which is updated regularly. despite repeated requests from this house, the eu's ministers for economic affairs and finance decided to exclude several countries from the list for diplomatic reasons. in this way they sent a signal which, in my view, is totally wrong. it is now time for the eu to set out requirements and criteria that will put an end to tax evasion.
madam president, commissioner, the humanitarian situation in haiti is devastating, as have been the successive natural disasters that have hit the country in recent years. disasters and the fragility of institutions have induced an endemic cycle of poverty and social chaos. it is essential to link humanitarian aid to building the resilience of haitian society, including by supporting the state's capacity to provide basic services to the population. the humanitarian situation in haiti has been discussed in this parliament on several occasions. we have always called for, and it makes sense to call again today, a strong mobilization of the international community. we have always advocated the involvement of the european union in a broader sense. however, without political stability and more institutional capacity, the country's sustainable development cannot be built on. emergency humanitarian aid will be more effective if it is combined with a stability and development dimension to which the haitian authorities must also be committed.
member of the commission. – madam president, the eu stands in solidarity with the people of haiti. the situation there is very dire and the country bears a resemblance to the most fragile countries in africa. haiti is the largest beneficiary of the european union’s humanitarian aid in latin america and the caribbean, with eur 434 000 000 provided since 1994. a very significant part of this funding has been mobilised in response to the different disasters hitting the country during this period. the intention behind the visit of commissioner lenarčič was to put the spotlight on this protracted crisis affected by donor fatigue and resulting in underfunding. at the moment, only 17% of the 2021 un humanitarian appeal is funded. eu humanitarian aid for haiti will continue. this year it amounted to eur 17 000 000, including eur 3 000 000 allocated in the aftermath of the disaster. our commitment will continue next year. the eu’s co-funded post-disaster needs assessment is ongoing, with results expected in early november. a reconstruction conference is expected at the end of the year. once again, i would like to thank you for this debate.
in writing. – according to the world federation of the deaf, in the last five years, several young deaf women in haiti have been gang-raped, brutally tortured, their organs extracted and murdered. in the middle of the pandemic, another deaf woman was violently assaulted, and the hospital personnel denied her the right to access the healthcare needed just because she is deaf. thus, deaf people in haiti are not even equal to other persons with disabilities. this behaviour is unacceptable and indicates the need for urgent measures. i call on the european external action service to take immediate action against the violation of the rights of deaf people in haiti.
i shall begin by announcing the results of yesterday's second round of voting. (the president declared the results of the vote) before we begin the debate and before the first round of voting today, in which we will vote on the libe committee's decision to open interinstitutional negotiations, on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (eu) 2016/794 as regards europol's cooperation with private parties, on europol's processing of personal data in support of criminal investigations and on europol's role in research and innovation, and on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (eu) 2018/1862 on the establishment, operation and use of the schengen information system (sis) in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as regards the submission of tenders by europol, only one speaker can support the committee's decision to open negotiations, and speak against it.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, i address the chamber today as rapporteur for the legislative package on europol to ask you to confirm the decision adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) to enter into interinstitutional negotiations on the two draft legislative acts, namely the revision of the europol regulation and the consequential amendment of the regulation on the schengen information system. the reform of europol’s mandate is a long-standing request by this parliament, and i was mainly motivated by the need to equip the agency with new tools and capabilities to face the digital transformation. criminals have adapted their modus operandi to the new digital reality, and consequently it is necessary to enable europol to better support member states in the fight against these evolving security threats. the two legislative reports, which were adopted by a large majority of 75% of the votes cast in libe last week, build on the main elements of the legislative proposals of the european commission, while introducing additional safeguards to ensure the fundamental rights, in particular, the right to the protection of personal data, are respected. the report, furthermore, includes provisions to enhance parliamentary oversight and the accountability of europol, marking a substantial progress and striking the right balance between new capabilities and closer democratic scrutiny and oversight. consequently, i kindly request for your support for both decisions, which gather a broad support in the libe committee, so allowing us to enter into negotiations so we can start the discussion with the council and the commission soon with a view to deliver new legislation that will allow europol to better support the member states to counter serious crimes and terrorism in full respect of fundamental rights.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, in 2021 alone, 55 complaints and 7 cases opened before the ombudsman. and yesterday we heard from the media that frontex is being denounced again. in this case, the court of justice of the eu. this is a family of syrian refugees who were illegally expelled by mr leggeri. the problem with this news, which is very serious, is that it no longer surprises anyone, because frontex is accumulating human rights violations. then there is the matter of his millionaire parties, the harassment cases, the whatsapps with the libyan coastguards, which at first didn't exist, but then it seems that they did, the hot returns, the "we don't have money to hire human rights monitors", which is mandatory, but yes to increase the leggeri's personal cabinet, which is incidental, and, of course, there is the investigation that is still open in the office of fighting fraud. in all this time we have been able to conclude that frontex is out of control, that frontex is not transparent, that frontex is violating human rights, that mr leggeri has lied in parliament and that the european commission has not done its homework. a full history indicating that things aren't going well anyway. moreover, this is a real scandal and the debate is not about approving the accounts but about what we should do to dismantle this agency.
mr president, mr borrell, in my view, the real debate here is what is the responsibility and what can the eu do in the face of this humanitarian emergency. the fact is that we have thousands of people on the polish border fleeing armed conflict, children, families... in sub-zero temperatures, enduring extreme violence, with several dead. and the fact is that we have a member state, poland, which has decided to decree the suspension of human rights and the geneva convention. he's created a no-go zone where all these refugees are trapped. an area that is off limits to media, ngos or un agencies. a zone where the right of asylum is clearly not being respected. basically, an area they don't want witnesses in. so when we talk about the far-right agenda penetrating the eu, we mean things like this. and that is why the commission cannot come to one part-session to ask for fundamental rights to be respected in poland and then come to the next part-session to say that fundamental rights are being violated in poland because they are people from outside. that's racist policy.
mr president, thank you very much, mr high representative, for your statements. i wanted to add a few brief remarks. we all agree that what lukashenka is doing is an instrumentalisation of migration flows. but i am really surprised by the unwavering support we are hearing from some members today for the polish government. i do not know if you remember that we had the polish prime minister here very recently and that virtually the whole house was very critical of him for his attack on the legal order of the european union. and secondly, we agree that lukashenka is acting on putin's orders, but don't you think that this panic attack, these nerves for 5,000, 10,000 people on the polish-belarusian border is precisely what makes us weak against putin? don't you realize that this is not the way to negotiate with putin, putting ourselves in a position of extreme weakness? think about it.
on behalf of the green group, mr. president, goliath against david. these are the strategic demands against public participation: the harassment and intimidation imposed by the big economic and political powers through the filing of lawsuits against journalists, human rights defenders, political opponents, activists and all those who are dedicated to informing, investigating or encouraging public debate. this has a silencing effect with devastating consequences for the proper functioning of democracies and the rule of law. with this robust report which we will be adopting tomorrow we call on the commission to be as ambitious as possible with its proposal for a directive to put an end to these gagging demands in all countries of the european union. we give david the tools he needs to defend himself against goliath.
the rapporteur. madam president, voltaire said that the best, the perfect, is the enemy of the good. we have a very good agreement here, but it is not optimal, it is not perfect; nor do we intend to be. it's hard to pretend to something like that when you're sitting at a negotiating table. but we do bring something that significantly improves the situation we had before. we have had five years of deadlock on the table since this parliament first pushed for the negotiation of this public report country by country. five years that have allowed us to go through a few milestones on the way from the panama papers to the pandora papers and each and every one of those situations has been equally infamous. i want to thank the people who have made it possible for us to have progressed. first of all, of course, to the alternative rapporteurs, in an exercise of pragmatism, but also an enormous exercise of solidarity, regardless of other issues such as the political cost. and i would also like to thank the portuguese presidency. without your help, it would have been practically impossible to even move forward. this is an agreement that sets up situations and sets up conditions so positive and so changeable that, as i say, it has been blocked for many years and has caused even some of the member countries to still hesitate to take it to court. but we're not going to take a step back. it cannot be that companies - and this is a 2015 estimate - that multinational companies - the ones we were talking about, which bill more than 750 billion euros a year - are estimated to avoid between 50 and 70 billion euros every year. this is an estimate for the year 2015 and i want to, above all, focus on that, that it's an estimate. and it's an estimate because we have no method of actually knowing that kind of information that is essential in proposing a fair tax policy and a sufficient tax policy. from now on, this will no longer be the case with regard to the taxation of these large companies and their activities within the european union, but also with regard to the list of tax havens: the black list and the grey list - a list which, by the way, may be extended if necessary. we also have a clause that will allow us to be able to renegotiate, to reimplement, to increase the scope of a standard that may be, as i say, perfect or more perfect, but which is already essentially good. i think with this agreement that we are reaching and that we are going to support we are sincerely making history. and history in democracies is not made by conquering that hill or watering the countryside with blood, it is made by a vote in a democratic parliament - as we are going to do here - and by publication in an official gazette. that's the epic in democracy. that's the way we have to make history: by building one more building, by building a floor in that one more building that's called civilization. so i ask for all the support for this text, i think a great job has been done and i want to thank again all the people who have made it possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, madam commissioner, for your words. it is true that this support seems massive and it is. i would just like to clarify a few points. first of all, i don't think this is a small step. i think it's a colossal step. i think it's a unique step, a pioneer in the world. and i hope that, from this step that we are taking, others will also take the same step, because that will mean that we are also building not only a better europe, but a better world. and for those who are concerned about whether the basis is fiscal, well no, it is a basis which is based on transparency and will serve, yes, so that citizens can do their accounts, they can know how much money these multinationals are actually earning in the european union, how many jobs they are generating, how many are, in fact, the profits they have and not only in the main company, but also in the branches. and from there they can do their calculations and they can also ask their own governments for decisions and their own members of parliament for decisions. and perhaps, if necessary, to change the treaties; and perhaps, if necessary, to include the tax base in the treaties so that we can act collectively. this is what we are approving today, because you cannot sustain a society in which big multinationals that are making tons, giants, huge amounts of money, are taxing some of them less than 2% - which is what is happening in real life. let us first put our house in order: it would certainly be better to have an agreement which entails an analysis, a global examination. but first we must put our house in order: the european union. and that's the end of it. for those who said that the european union was not a state: no, it is not, unfortunately it is not, but it will be, it will be. and it will also be a federal, social and legal state.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, for the european education area to succeed, it must be inclusive, accessible and cohesive. that is why we are pleased to have reached an agreement where we talk about education alongside concepts such as climate crisis, green and digital transition, gender gaps or discrimination and where, beyond the purely economic perspective, we highlight lifelong learning, non-formal training or volunteering. this report is a clear message for the commission to turn words into action, which is why we call for adequate funding, as well as for the improvement of working conditions in the education sector and the inclusion of all teachers in training and exchange programmes: the vindication of the value of teachers and the centrality of the role of education in the european strategy is the best guarantee for the future of all. european values, including diversity, must also be the basis for shaping education in europe. it is therefore good news that this text speaks decisively of multilingualism and stresses the importance of learning all the languages of the member states, languages which go beyond english and, of course, beyond the restrictive definition of the 24 official languages which unfortunately we still have in this chamber and which does not correspond to the fertile linguistic reality of europe. that is the europe we are defending: the europe which recognises in every language a worldview worthy of dignity, the europe which sees in every language a source of wealth and strength. the future of europe will also be shaped by the shape we give to its education: we have an opportunity and we must not waste it.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs šojdrová, and all the alternative rapporteurs, because we have achieved a good text that fits in with the debate that, at least in the basque country, is taking place on the necessary educational innovation and pedagogical transformation, with ambitious proposals such as universal accessibility to education and the importance of face-to-face education beyond virtual tools; it must be said that the massive use of digital education during the pandemic has highlighted important inequalities in the most disadvantaged social sectors. we also welcome the call for at least 10% of the recovery funds and the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework to be earmarked for education programmes as an important aspect of recovery measures and as part of measures to combat climate change and the rise of the far right and authoritarianism. and also the need for higher education qualifications, including vocational training, to be recognised throughout the union. there is also a shadow: the text is not ambitious. in the area of investment in education, we are still far from the 6% of gdp proposed earlier and we regret that minority and co-official languages have not been taken into account in the text. they are vehicle languages in education - in much of my country, for example, 70% of pupils choose euskara as their vehicle language - and we think they should not be ignored by the european education area.
mr president, ensuring inclusive and quality education and training requires a fair and well-funded education system that eliminates sexism and classism. for example, to close the gender gap and break down the glass ceilings in science and academia, we need to fund research led by women or teams of women, eradicate gender bias and stereotypes, promote positive female role models at all levels of education, facilitate equality plans in research centres and universities, and make sure that old university hierarchies are radically changed: the university is not only an aging place, but also a masculinized and scientifically biased place, where, until recently, gender studies not only didn't count, but were discounted. in addition, education cannot depend on a system of micro-credentials which makes training paths precarious and hinders the acquisition of qualifications that guarantee social advancement. we need more public investment and more involvement from educational institutions, and, in the workplace, of course, more co-responsibility from the business sector.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by stressing that today is world science day for peace and development, and i would therefore like to highlight the intrinsic value of research for our societies and, as the commissioner has mentioned, that it has a strong participation of women. i want to take this opportunity to remind you that supporting and investing in science is not a luxury, it is a necessity: the pandemic has made it clear to us, as does the ongoing fight to mitigate and curb the effects of climate change, how important research is and investing in research. i would like to add my voice to those of my colleagues who have worked very well and very conscientiously on this dossier in support of this initiative which aims to accelerate europe's global leadership in metrology research by establishing european collaboration networks. what is not measured does not exist and if something does not exist, we do not know it, we cannot really transform it, so i take this opportunity to highlight the importance of metrology as a facilitator of economic and social activity and the need to support existing structures for the development of the metrology community and to promote synergies between european centres.
mr president, i’d like to focus on the challenges, and not only on income, money and shaking hands. the main challenge is china. so the question to the commission is very simple: how can we combat china, i mean the lack of standards from china? because when we had this conversation in washington last week, everyone was happy to do it, and the trade and technology council (ttc) is a beautiful thing. but what about china? we can still see people who are basically hypocrites. they are making the money, making the business as usual, they are talking about the ttc, about cooperation, they are talking about fighting for the people and combating the lack of standards, but that’s still money coming from china. so, what can we do and when can we do it? what concrete steps can be taken to protect our european economy? because this is the most important part of the ttc as a future. if we want to be successful and safe, we have to make decisions – not just talking, talking and shaking hands.
mr president, with 780 million inhabitants and 40% of world gdp, europe and the united states have developed the most important economic relationship in the world. but our relationship goes far beyond the purely commercial aspect: europe and the united states are the two great pillars on which the liberal democratic order based on the rule of law rests, a democratic order increasingly threatened by dictatorial regimes with greater technological capabilities and greater economic weight. if europeans and americans want to preserve this liberal order, cooperation is no longer an option but an obligation. we must shore up the shared institutions that regulate trade and the international order, but we must also look to the future. we must design the necessary rules to protect our privacy, preserve our cybersecurity and regulate artificial intelligence. we are no longer satisfied with the brussels effect. if we want to continue to lead in the 21st century, democracies need the brussels-washington effect.
madam president, commissioner, european political parties have a fundamental role to play in representing the will and diversity of european citizens and bringing them closer to the european institutions. that's why it's important that they have adequate public funding. this funding should be transparent and comply with the principle of sound financial management, as it forms part of the general budget of the european union. this requires clear, simple but strict rules which help to avoid errors and always under effective controls which allow any abuse to be detected. we are pleased that the authority for political parties has developed a set of principles to make the right to campaign in european elections operational, as we requested in the resolution of 6 april 2011, because of the importance of this right for the future of the union. on the other hand, we must ensure that the criteria for registration and membership allow for genuine and inclusive democratic representation. and, most importantly, european political parties must respect the founding principles of the union as laid down in the treaty on european union and any infringement must be effectively sanctioned to prevent anti-democratic attitudes from entering the institutions. as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control, i am pleased to see that our opinion has been widely taken up.
madam president, madam vice-president jourová, first of all, i would like to thank you, mr wieland and mr goerens, for this excellent own-initiative report which i think is politically sound and which should help the commission to prepare its legislative proposal. i think that the socialist group, very well represented by gabriele bischoff, has also made important contributions to this report. we believe that this should not only be an opportunity to make an administrative approach to political parties, but also to increase their visibility - hence the question of linking or articulating the funding of european political parties also in terms of the use of the logos of european political parties and their names - and i also think that the contribution of having to respect the values of article 2 is fundamental. i would like to make one final point very quickly: i am also not in favour of the vote-based funding system. that is very complicated because we have 27 different electoral systems, and votes are not worth the same and are not counted in the same way in all countries; now, if we had a pan-european constituency where the lists of political parties were presented, then that system would make sense.
mr president, commissioner, the introduction of a european social security card will help to ensure decent working conditions, by standardising social security benefits and increasing the traceability, aggregation and portability of entitlements. the socialist group has been calling for this common instrument for years as a means of combating fraud and cases of abuse affecting both social security and the workers themselves. persons exposed to intolerable situations of labour exploitation due to fraudulent practices by intermediary operators; operators who take workers in one country to take them to another, where they will work under working conditions very different from those previously agreed. this was the case for spanish workers in the netherlands, totally unprotected during the pandemic, crowded into unsanitary accommodation and without access to minimum health and safety benefits. it is up to us, here and now, to put an end to these bad practices of subcontracting and abuse and to improve the coordination of social security systems.
in writing. as a member of the spanish socialist delegation, i voted in favour of this oral question with a resolution with a view to establishing a european mechanism to help combat fraud and abuse of social security and workers. all this through improved coordination of european social security systems. freedom of movement is one of our fundamental pillars and we need instruments in europe to combat those legal loopholes that exist and to prevent the spread of social dumping, unfair competition and distortions in our internal and labour market. the introduction of a european social security card will contribute to ensuring decent working conditions, due to the standardisation of social security benefits, and to an increase in the traceability, aggregation and portability of guarantee entitlements. the socialists have been calling for this common instrument for years and we hope that the commission will take note of the need for action in this respect. we also hope that the long-awaited proposal will cover all citizens and mobile workers, including selfemployed workers and third country nationals, in a fair and equitable way.
in writing. in recent weeks, there has been a significant increase in the number of cases of covid-19 infections in all member states, which has led to the introduction of different measures by member states. the socialists are concerned that we are entering a new phase of uncoordinated measures, which are creating confusion for all citizens, and in particular for those who travel, despite the provisions of the regulation creating the eu digital covid certificate, which was designed to facilitate travel and curb these difficulties. the social democrats in the european parliament therefore support public health measures to limit the spread of the virus, but we ask the member states to coordinate their actions and to respect the provisions of the schengen borders code. the next commission schengen package, due in december, should help to clarify the rules that apply in these circumstances in the schengen area. the socialists are consistent in calling for proper coordination of member states' measures, the updating of the recommendations on freedom of movement and the long-term reform of the schengen borders code.
in writing. in recent weeks, there has been a significant increase in the number of cases of covid-19 infections in all member states, which has led to the introduction of different measures by member states. the socialists are concerned that we are entering a new phase of uncoordinated measures, which are creating confusion for all citizens, and in particular for those who travel, despite the provisions of the regulation creating the eu digital covid certificate, which was designed to facilitate travel and curb these difficulties. the social democrats in the european parliament therefore support public health measures to limit the spread of the virus, but we ask the member states to coordinate their actions and to respect the provisions of the schengen borders code. the next commission schengen package, due in december, should help to clarify the rules that apply in these circumstances in the schengen area. the socialists are consistent in calling for proper coordination of member states' measures, the updating of the recommendations on freedom of movement and the long-term reform of the schengen borders code.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, behind the unattractive title of this debate, we have one of the most important issues of the moment. at the end of the day, to debate the extraction of critical raw materials is to talk about the limits of the planet, about the effort we are willing to make to make a just transition, about the audacity to change the ways of production. we're debating about what resources we're leaving for future generations. and that is that, to build a wind turbine, a tablet or a robot in a production line, you need a huge amount of raw materials. many of these are critical because they are scarce, difficult to extract or because their deposits are concentrated in certain regions of the world. only in this device do we have tungsten, coltan, tin, lithium or rare earths. many are known as blood minerals because their extraction, in addition to destroying ecosystems and people, is done at the expense of armed conflicts such as that of the democratic republic of the congo, for the control of coltan, coups d'état such as that of bolivia, for the control of lithium, or the illegal occupation of morocco over western sahara, to exploit the reserves of phosphates or tantalum. that is why we think this report is not very ambitious. given the opportunity to abandon extractivism and think about where we are going and how to orient our production model in a fair way to the challenges of climate change, we continue to bet on models that will deepen the ecosocial crisis. perhaps starting with a strategy that reduces the use of materials and recovers those that are in circulation is the wisest thing to do today.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, some of the considerations made in the report are relevant but incomplete. the example of the low absorption of funds by micro, small and mediumsized enterprises cannot be dissociated from the budget options, to which are added systematic cuts in the cohesion and structural funds. the correct application of funds and the fight against corruption and tax evasion and fraud are being seriously hampered by the weakening and weakening of the national structures responsible for combating these phenomena, which no supranational structure can replace. the proposed revision of the regulation is intended to transpose and deepen the scope of the budgetary guidelines and the instruments of economic governance, which are based on instruments of interference in sovereign decisions of countries, in particular in their development options, including the adoption of new mechanisms of blackmail and financial sanctions, which call into question the sovereignty of the peoples and democracy itself. the interests of the big economic and financial capital and the major powers of the european union, the biggest beneficiaries of integration, are served. they lose the people.
madam president, commissioner, in may 2020, we saw the european commission ask blackrock to define the criteria for green investment in banking. it was surprising and it was surprising. this surprised the ombudsman, at first, it surprised this parliament and it surprised a large part of civil society. we have therefore tried to understand how this type of conflict could be avoided and when we approached the commission, the commission formally replied: 'we have respected our rules'. well, when the rules are not good, there is a simple solution: try to evolve them and change them. you said that in your speech earlier. the issue of conflicts of interest has become an absolutely major issue. we must be able to ensure that our parliament can control the conditions under which public contracts are awarded. and the commission must understand that to separate a subsidiary from the parent company seems, in such matters, to be absolutely impossible. we must therefore ensure that the commission discusses this with parliament in advance, that its vade-mecum is discussed by the representation we are, and that the criteria can be found. the first criterion is to ensure that a subsidiary cannot carry out a study where its parent company or other companies in the group have conflicting interests. for example, blackrock is investing heavily in fossil fuels and coal. is it authorised to give advice on green investments, even through one of its subsidiaries? that should at least be discussed. so, first thing: to ensure that the no conflict of interest is respected. secondly, don't focus on price, because prices can be revised down for reasons i won't go into. thirdly, do not hesitate to implement sanctions when companies fail to meet their duty of transparency.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for this short but very intensive discussion. i think we share the view in many places as to what needs to be done. two things, however, are worth remembering. the first is that whatever we do here should focus on the needs that arise from the mff. and from this, mr ušakovs, also derives my assessment and my hope that if we submit a proposal in the first quarter of next year, it will not take two years to be negotiated and adopted, but if there is a political will and a need, so to speak, and i hope that is also given on the other side of the road, then this should be possible by the beginning of 2023. like i said, we have a lot of work to do. i would like to point out that we must of course take individual cases into account when we are considering new facts - if you will - or regulations. on the other hand, individual cases should not be used solely to develop tailor-made solutions, but must also be a systemic approach that ultimately provides a satisfactory outcome for all. in this sense, thank you again for this report. i hope that once the commission's proposal is on the table we will have a serious discussion, including with the other co-decision-maker, the council, and that we will reach a conclusion.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission i welcome this very important report on the role of sport and the evolution of sports policy. first of all, i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, tomasz frankowski. tomasz scored many goals as a professional football player but this report may be the most spectacular of all goals he has scored. today he is coming back to strasbourg where he played as a football player 25 years ago. he is coming to strasbourg for a major political play, because his report will certainly seal the future of eu sports policies. honourable members, as we speak, young and old europeans run after a ball. they play, they train, they exercise all over europe in villages, small towns, urban centres. the role of sport is inextricably linked to our way of life, to our model of society, and today i would like to highlight three broad issues that should be at the heart of eu policies when it comes to sport. first, sport equals health. physical activity equals somatic and mental health. healthy lifestyles equal healthier ageing and mean a happy life. we are determined to continue building up eu-wide initiatives across the policy spectrum of our competences to make this a reality. a european week of sport, the healthylifestyle4all campaign, from the farm to fork strategy, the eu beating cancer action plan, are all sports-related, tools and initiatives that we shall pursue with vigour at european level. secondly, sport in europe is not only about healthier lives. it has the great power to simultaneously build strong, cohesive communities, transcending social barriers, bridging inequalities, leaving nobody behind. sport matters a lot to the union of equality that we are bringing about without any kind of discrimination, stereotypes – racial, ethnic, religious, disability or sexual orientation. sport means integration and inclusion, and we shall mobilise all available tools and resources to maintain and reinforce this link, both with our new reinforced erasmus+ programme, the beinclusive eu sport awards and the rrf funds, we will continue to commit to preserve our values through sport. similarly, we are determined as europeans to continue fighting the scourges of doping, corruption and match-fixing that threaten sport and discredit it in the eyes of society. thirdly, and probably most importantly of all, it is essential to work together – institutions, member states, sport movements and associations – to protect and promote the european model of sport, a model which is open, which rewards sporting merit, which prioritises solidarity and sustainability, not profit and power, a model that serves social cohesion and societal objectives, a model for everyone, not for closed élites. european football is one of the leading success stories of this model, and now we know from the unanimous european defiant reaction to the breakaway attempt for a closed european super league that we enjoy total support for this model, not only for fans and citizens, but also politicians, governments, institutions across the european union, and like the millions of citizens and fans that rose up to protect the game this year, we and the commission are committed to protecting the european sports model as we know it and as we like it. let me conclude with a personal memory. when i was 14 years old, i had the chance to watch my humble team aris thessaloniki play saint-étienne with their mighty stars, and a few years later we also had the chance to play manchester city, and even win against atlético de madrid in madrid. this is because we grew up in a model where everyone has a chance on a meritocratic, open and competitive system that links the national championships and provides opportunity for all. this is the model that we can use so that our children and grandchildren aspire to the same values and to the same experiences.
for the ppe group. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, thank you for your support, but also for your personal conviction and passion for sport. first of all, i'd also like to thank our reporter tomasz frankowski, because this sports report is written from his experience, which he has, and it's on the report. of course, thanks to all his co-workers and colleagues. the european parliament is thus making a statement in support of sport, and we are doing so at a time when sport has also suffered from the impact of the covid-19 pandemic. we are now calculating the impact and thinking about how to support sport in erasmus+, the recovery fund and other activities. sport has an important place in the life of a person, not only of a person but also of a society. the sports industry is a significant economic force, tomasz frankowski has spoken about it. but sport is the most important thing that shapes us, teaches us endurance, resilience, teaches us to play fair. sport promotes the values on which the european union is founded: respect, solidarity, equality, diversity and fairness. sports activities bring people together, and in sports, the only difference is performance, no matter where you're from, what your political views or religious beliefs are or the color of your skin. and that's a big part of sport, not just talking about equality, but giving space, giving opportunity to every talent. the european union's sport policy should support our values and promote human rights, the rule of law and democratic values, in particular when awarding hosting status to major sporting events and selecting sponsors. in conclusion, let me express my conviction that this report is only the beginning of further work, and i believe that tomasz frankowski and all other collaborators will have a 'goal' and we will support sport.
madam president, i love sport for sport’s sake. but sport is an important economic sector in the eu also – over 2% of the union’s gdp in fact. while this should not be forgotten, sport has a more significant role to play in society beyond gdp. i think this has been made even more apparent since the start of the pandemic. as a former president of the gaelic athletic association, an irish international amateur sporting organisation, i’ve seen first—hand the true value of sport. it has a unique ability to embed itself in a local community, providing a social and physical outlet with economic and physiological benefits. it acts as a glue that galvanises a common bond and helps build stronger, healthier, happier and safer communities. the memories and friendships created by sport are lifelong, but so are the lessons in equality, discipline, inclusion, perseverance and respect that it instils. i would like to thank the rapporteur, tomasz frankowski, for this report, which brings important ideas to the forefront of the eu’s sports policy. in fact, as a successful international soccer player for poland, parliament is lucky to have thomas’ perspective on this topic. i agree that there is a need to adopt a more holistic approach to sport, and involving more stakeholders in the process is the most effective way to do this. i also believe that an eu sports coordinator will help enhance a value—based sports model. the eu should have a greater coordinating presence in sport and be willing to fund many projects and, above all, to promote equality in sport so that – as the commissioner said – everyone has a chance in a meritocratic system, both male and female.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this report on sport underlines the need for and priorities of an eu sport policy. the pandemic is also exacerbating existing problems in sport, both in the broad and in the elite. the report therefore calls on the member states to strengthen the financial and human resources of outdoor sports and sports infrastructure, especially in rural areas, where the clubs and structures are at risk of being destroyed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's sporting policy. the clubs have a responsibility towards young athletes and must finally take them on board. in professional sports, however, the example of the so-called super league shows where the journey might go. instead, it needs reforms, not a super league. the super league is destroying the sport, not protecting the sport. we also call for action by sporting associations, member states and the commission to improve the visibility of women's sport in the media and to establish a zero-tolerance policy on violence and racism in sport. the report shows that there is no shortage of ideas. what is needed is a consistent implementation of our demands by the member states, the commission and the sports federations and the respect of european values in all aspects of sport. fair play is not just on the field, but in sports policy as a whole.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur. as a physical education teacher, as i am and as i will be again, i believe that the european union must and can put pressure on the member states to reform school systems, which provide for an increase in the number of hours and the quality of physical education teaching from primary school onwards. physical education must be included in all national curricula and be given weight in the programmes. this is only possible with trained teachers in the motor sciences, employed from primary school. our children need quality teachers and programmes, which aim at a harmonious psychomotor development. only then will we be sure to have children who are more aware of their bodies and the space they occupy, more coordinated, healthier. moreover, it is the only way to develop the citizens of the future, who will be healthy bearers of values such as respect for others, gender equality and solidarity.
the role of sport in society is of the utmost importance for any country, as it contributes to the development of various physical, psychological, social and moral qualities. that's why sports are an integral part of our daily lives. especially in the time of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic, which has not only led to a loss of professional skills, but also deprived people of the ability to be physically active. it is more important than ever to make efforts to ensure that access to sporting activities is free, inclusive and equal for all and to promote public health through physical activity. the construction of sports infrastructure is an important element for improving the quality of life and economic opportunities, especially in disadvantaged regions and smaller settlements. the provision of long-term jobs contributes to keeping young people in remote areas and reduces the risk of depopulation. and organising sporting events would make them more attractive to spectators and potential tourists. in this regard, it is necessary for member states to unite around a more holistic approach to union sport policy, which ensures equal opportunities for all those engaged in the sector and supports its economic recovery.
madam president, sport fulfils a dual role, one of social inclusion and public health and one of promoting performance and community success. the european union must therefore have a policy in this area to ensure that all member states and all citizens have equal access to quality sports infrastructure, new technology in this area and appropriate educational methods. to do this we must ensure that sport does not become an exclusive activity in europe. to this end, we need to balance competition, stimulate investment in the field, but also support mass sports, including in rural areas. sport is ignored in many european countries, as is unfortunately the case in romania, where the performances of exceptional athletes are treated with indifference by the authorities. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the measures taken by the member states are effective and proportionate. the european union has a duty to support the athletes who have performed and to protect the traditional sports and sporting heritage of each member state, as is the case, for example, of gymnastics, fencing or rowing for romania. dear colleagues, being an athlete is not easy, it requires a lot of work and a lot of sacrifices. i had the pleasure of meeting exceptional athletes who had succeeded, but also young people who had failed along the way, for various reasons. for this, we must, together with all those involved in the field, devise policies that make sport an opportunity, but also a mobilizing factor for a developed and healthy society.
vice—president of the commission. – madam president, let me finish very much as i started by congratulating tomasz frankowski again on this report, which will be a landmark in developing eu sports policies in the future. as the debate has clearly shown, there is a remarkable degree of convergence on the need for a new, fresh, holistic approach to sports policy in europe. despite the limits of eu competence on sport, as set out in the treaty, the explosion of both amateur sport and professional sport in the last decades has increased the demand for suitable forms of coordination and setting political priorities at the eu level. this asymmetry between a weak legal basis and a strong set of expectations by the people is comparable to the one we witnessed in health policy recently, and we managed to correct it. we bridged this gap of legal basis and expectations, and we will do the same for sport. the eu cannot, and will not, ignore this request coming from society. we shall defend, promote and protect a european sports model that works for the many, not for the few – for normal people, for professional and amateur players alike, for fans across the continent who want to see their teams compete fairly and aspire to the top, instead of closed leagues where elite teams play amongst each other with no regard for national championships and amateur sport, sharing the profits amongst themselves. sport is a vector for open, cohesive societies and europe is aware of that and will live up to the challenge of protecting it.
in writing. the sports sector is without doubt a very important part of our lives, promoting values and ideals across borders. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. we must ensure that athletes are adequately protected at all levels. the promotion of dual career opportunities and access to jobs and skills acquisition programmes for former athletes must be made a reality. unfortunately, the sports sector has been disproportionately affected by the pandemic. we must mobilize all the financial means to revive the industry. it affects hundreds of thousands of workers. as a former professional athlete myself, i want to stress the importance of maintaining an open european model of sport, which will allow all teams to compete in the top competitions. because that's the quintessence of the sport. to fight and be judged by your own abilities. finally, any institutional changes proposed should take into account the physical and mental health of professional players. for this reason, any attempt to change the timetables of international and european sports events cannot be made to the detriment of the players. any commercial benefits will be eliminated if we jeopardize the health of the true champions of each sport.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking all the groups and the alternative rapporteurs for the great work they have done together over these months: europe is leading the fight against climate change, and after the pandemic we must lead europe's pharmaceutical and healthcare innovation. the fight against covid-19 has made us build in one year what previously probably took a generation. in record time, we have been able to lay the foundations for the future european health union: the covid-19 vaccination strategy; the reinforcement of the european centre for disease prevention and control; the reinforcement of the european medicines agency; the creation of the european health emergency preparedness and response authority - hera - and its incubator; and the new euprohealth programme, with a tenfold increase in its budget, as well as the european plan to fight cancer, which, together with the new pharmaceutical strategy, inaugurate the european decade for health, innovation and research, giving europe a greater social dimension. we have been hit by severe crises, but we have learned that science and technology are two huge social shields, along with a more competitive pharmaceutical industry and public-private collaboration. we therefore bet on innovation made in europe after decades of offshoring and also of having been too dependent on third countries, perhaps losing autonomy in a sector which is strategic. it is 20 years since the last strategy and the world has changed, so we must update the laws and the incentive system: the new strategy is the ideal framework for updating and strengthening a whole new generation of pharmaceutical regulations for this decade. the new strategy proposes a paradigm shift through six objectives. for starters, we put the patient at the centre of all health policies; we reduce time to market for medicines by aligning the ema's approval times with national agencies; and we also support a new framework for the design of innovative clinical trials by giving patients' associations a leading role in prioritising their therapeutic needs. as regards the second objective, we are ensuring that all patients have access to the most advanced treatments in the shortest possible time: we cannot tolerate a gap in access in europe of between nine and a thousand days for some treatments, or that in the last twenty years the shortage of medicines has increased twentyfold. that is why we are promoting more research into and availability of generics and biosimilars on the market, encouraging the use of gene and cell therapies, personalised medicine, nanomedicines and mrna derivatives, and standardising the implementation of the priority medicines scheme across the eu to speed up the availability of essential medicines. the third objective is to respond to untreated medical diseases, such as the more than 8 000 minority diseases of which only 5% are currently treatable, with 30 million people in europe without a response, as well as paediatric cancers, neurodegenerative diseases and antibiotic resistance, which i would dare to say is one of the silent pandemics of our continent. we therefore call for a european fund to acquire orphan medicines through joint purchases, and we also call for the harmonization of a european framework to be applied in the national plans against minority diseases. the fourth objective is that we are committed to a competitive pharmaceutical industry with supply chains that are not dependent on third countries, encouraging the production of medicines of high therapeutic value which, of course, respect quality standards and the european green deal. we therefore support a secure, predictable and less bureaucratic regulatory system and we advocate a strong framework for the protection of intellectual property rights. the fifth objective: we ensure the sustainability of our national health systems in the 27 member states, which are one of our great strengths and distinguish us from other third countries. we therefore encourage public-private partnerships to tender for funding research, the production of innovative medicines and the reuse of medicines, and we invite member states to promote the use of biosimilars. as regards objective 6, we strengthen the european union as a world leader in health to make it better prepared for future health crises by creating hera and its incubator, and by promoting trade agreements with third countries that reward innovation-based competitiveness to achieve greater access for each and every patient, not only in europe but also in the rest of the world, and by requiring third country companies accessing our market to meet european quality standards. we also promote a structured dialogue with all actors in the pharmaceutical sector to have diversified supply chains and a plan to mitigate the risk of shortages of medicines. the new pharmaceutical strategy strengthens collaboration with who and international bodies, as well as the link with the european union's industrial strategy, the sme strategy and, above all, the future european health data space. so to achieve the european health union, we must work together with patients, the scientific community, health professionals, industry and member states, together with the european institutions. this strategy balances promoting innovation, patient access and the sustainability of our national health systems in europe, putting patients at the heart of all policies. the health of europeans depends more than ever on the health of the european union and i am convinced that the european health union is one of the great pillars of this european union.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. i welcome the report, but it is true that there are many measures to support the pharmaceutical industry which somehow ignore a social component, which i think would have been good to reflect. on the one hand, a new system of research incentives is proposed, but the report does not mention the misuse of some of these incentives. for example, in the framework of the orphan medicinal products regulation, which will soon be revised. the report talks about transparency and price fixing, but we should have harmonised criteria for price fixing in the european union, with a new legislative proposal on price transparency and also reimbursement of medicines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that centralized purchasing should be a general rule. finally, i also miss some mention of plasma, because we are totally dependent on third countries and the report does not mention this. that said, i congratulate you on the report, because it contributes to a fairer, more inclusive and more social health policy in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, how many citizens knew about the messenger rna technique two years ago, or who knew who biotech was a few months before the pandemic? the importance of the pharmaceutical sector and biotechnological innovation is beyond dispute. their success in recent months has gone hand in hand with ours, and the development in record time of a vaccine that has saved us from the worst of the pandemic has not been a fluke: it has been years of off-the-shelf research, close collaboration and public-private investment and the work of some of the world's best researchers on the ingredients of vaccines. we have discussed talent, innovation and technology in this house on many occasions. today, with this pharmaceutical strategy, we are taking another step towards protecting the companies and researchers who have made their mark and restoring the competitiveness of a strategic industry in which europe was once a leader, because today we are far from being autonomous in the pharmaceutical field: only 60% of the medicines we consume are produced in the european union and 80% of the active ingredients come from china and india. to regain this leadership, we must first provide the industry with sufficient legal certainty to encourage it to invest the enormous time and resources needed to develop new medicines. and protecting innovative smes is critical because, after all, for many years their only asset has been intellectual property. we must also invest in future technologies, nanotechnology, gene therapy, artificial intelligence and the creation of a european health data area that reflects the excellence of our health systems. my second point brings me to the drugs that are not cost-effective, like pediatric drugs or those that treat diseases like als. we in europe do not forget those who suffer from these diseases, and this is where we must address market failures, make sure that the incentive system works and, above all, support research with public investment. let us use recovery plans, cohesion funds and innovation programmes such as horizon europe. of course, we have to put the citizen at the centre of this whole debate. the two-speed europe must be avoided at all costs. a very illustrative example: a patient today in northern europe takes on average 100 to 200 days to get access to a new medicine; that same patient in eastern europe would take 600 to 1,000 days. we need to tackle this problem because, in the health field, these disparities cost lives. finally, this strategy must serve to learn from past mistakes, to ensure that we are prepared to deal with future crises, and now is the time for the commission to present an early warning mechanism to avoid shortages of medicines and for us to focus on the administrative solutions that have proven useful, such as rapid approvals or the joint purchase of critical materials. let us continue to show that the european union is the solution. my dear colleagues, europe is the continent with the longest life expectancy, a great achievement which speaks volumes about our health and pharmaceutical systems. it is essential to ensure the sustainability of this system and that the next health crisis meets us with the duties done. this is the greatest favor we can do for future generations.
madam president, a mariña de lugo, in the north of galicia, my region, is suffering from serious industrial problems, sometimes because of the abandonment of the regional government's own policies and sometimes because of the negligence and the exploitation of resources and labour by some enterprises of the people of that area of galicia. i come here to demand that the european union and the european commission should be more vigilant in the aid given to certain companies to launch initiatives which are then abandoned despite having received european funds. i think that is intolerable, because the lives and working prospects of hundreds of women and men in that region of galicia are being jeopardized. i also ask that we take this industrial ecological transition seriously and demand that european industries also obtain their raw materials here in europe. but above all, let us be strict about the aid given to businesses in this part of galicia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i listen to my green colleagues, it seems that the member states and the farmers' organisations are the bad guys who make a mess, who don't know what's good for agriculture, who don't know what's good for sustainability in agriculture, and who are, how to say, cutting the branch on which they are sitting. and you, the green colleagues in the european parliament, seem to know exactly what is best for them and for agricultural production. well, i don't think that's what it is. so they're the people who get up early every morning and they stay up late and they know what's good for agricultural production and agricultural sustainability. and i support this proposal precisely because it has listened sufficiently to the farmer, which has sufficiently supported the small producers. and i'll highlight one more thing, and that's the demographics. more children are born in the countryside than in the city. how much cheaper is housing in the country than in the city. and of course, children born in the countryside are more likely to choose to be entrepreneurs in agriculture than children born in the city. so, apart from the fact that in the common agricultural policy we have to look for a balance between environmental protection and competitiveness, we certainly have to think about people, who are crucial to the sustainability of agriculture, and that sustainability is more important than the sustainability of any other production because agriculture is the only activity that has always existed and will always exist because we will always need food. people are the first and most important precondition for agricultural production, so preserving and rejuvenating the countryside must be both a croatian and a european priority.
madam president, thank you almost everybody here and especially the european commission for being brave enough to create a huge paradigm shift. the cap will evolve from a top-down, prescriptive, administrative process to a bottom-up, horizontally-controlled framework, and this is great news. good people don’t like to be told what to do, and we need good farmers to produce healthy food in huge quantities in a responsible way. we have to stay as far away as possible as we can from rules and regulations that create an administrative burden so big that we lose the good farmers we have. if we pester farmers with a policy framework that is tight and strict, farmers will go elsewhere looking for a better job. professional farmers that produce in a healthy stimulating environment produce good and healthy food. this healthy environment is our responsibility. it is an environment with fewer controls, less rules and regulations and more space for professional farmers to take on responsibility and act accordingly.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the new rules of the cap mean that agriculture is more involved in environmental action. in parallel with these changes, the green deal's overly ambitious objectives will be implemented, as the european commission's unfortunately hidden impact analysis shows. it is also important to stress today that member states are given much greater powers and responsibility in return for implementing and achieving the objectives of the common agricultural policy. and here i ask the european commission to look very closely at the draft national strategic plans for the implementation of the agricultural policy. i know of another version of the draft prepared by the polish government and unfortunately, citing experts, i have to say that this draft violates article 4 of the strategic plans regulation. in fact, this project is mocking real, active polish farmers who will not be able to get even one euro of direct subsidies for half of the land used - zero. worse still, they will not be able to implement the second pillar's agro-environmental programmes on these lands, they will not be able to implement the first pillar's eco-scheme. i am not going to turn to commissioner wojciechowski on this matter, because unfortunately genuine, active polish farmers cannot count on his help in this matter, but the european commission as a whole must be aware that if it accepts these types of draft strategic plans, which openly violate the provisions of the regulations we are about to adopt, then in the case of poland the commission will take joint responsibility for the pathological situation associated with informal leases. real farmers will lose out because they won't be able to get their environmental premiums back, and land owners will lose out because they'll have less subsidies, and the environment won't benefit.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate on a long process with what i consider to be one of the most profound reforms of the agricultural policy, which accounts for one third of the community budget, and we shall probably have to wait and see what happens with one of the shortest, 2023-2027. this reform has added to income support, which is very important in agriculture, greater social, environmental and climate ambition, and this parliament should be proud to have increased social ambition with social conditionality. there is the recognition of the role of rural women - by the way, very few have mentioned it, perhaps no one - which the cap is doing for the first time, more support for young farmers and an extension of the redistributive payment, as well as greater climate ambition with reinforced conditionality, the percentage of support for the new schemes and 35% of the second pillar measures. subsidiarity has been strengthened and this parliament has helped to ensure that the community does not lose its credibility. the european area is the area of the cap; agricultural policy is not just another policy: it guarantees food and territorial cohesion. that is why it needs greater social support and the full support of this house, and that is why i ask all the groups, all the honourable members, to vote in favour of this reform. let us not think that if these regulations are not supported, the current cap will continue; that is not true, that is a lie: it will end on 31 december 2022. so let us not deceive the farmers and let us bet on european agriculture, let us give our farmers security by voting 'yes' now at two o'clock.
mr. president, there are many roads that lead to rome. so is greening agriculture. every road is different, every farm is different, every farmer is different. brussels must define the goal, but the way to achieve it is the farmer's responsibility. he knows his land, he knows his animals and he knows the local conditions best. i am glad that for the first time in the history of the european parliament part of the greening is not being driven by generic measures imposed from above. the target has become more guiding. part of the budget is now directly linked to actual green results, and this is the best guarantee for successful greening. it is a good first step, because generic greening measures are still being demanded, conceived from behind a desk, with very doubtful effect in practice. secondly, it is important that the greening programmes, the so-called eco-schemes, are not compulsory. not because i'm against greening, just the opposite. but if there is no obligation, we must make sure that the compensation is right. that compensation must come from the european agricultural policy, but also from the market. if we do this in the right way, this contributes to a green and sustainable revenue model. this means that the burden of greening is not placed on one link in the chain, the farmer, but is spread throughout the chain.
mr president, i think it’s very clear now that we, as greens, will vote against this cap deal, and i think one of the big reasons is that there is no alignment with the new priorities of this commission on the green deal, farm to fork and biodiversity strategy. but i think, you hear so many different opinions about it. i think the commission now really needs to make clear, how is the commission going to align the national plans with the green deal? because some of us are claiming it is a big success, that we have a recital referring to it. others in the house are saying, ‘well, thank god, green deal is not mentioned’. the commission in june had a very enthusiastic press release, stating that these cap plans will from now on deliver on the green deal. but we hear that right now, in the negotiations on an implementing act, you are scrapping it. we want to know, how are you going to make sure that the national plans will deliver on the green deal and which countries are fighting against it? because transparency on this matter is crucial, so please no further vague language, but clarity on this matter.
mr president, mr commissioner, good morning to you all. if all the omens come true, it will only serve to fuel the worst fears of the european countryside in general and of spain in particular. in other words, the change from a professional agricultural model will be implemented, which will turn farmers and cattle farmers into mere gardeners subordinated to the interests of brussels offices. i am going to be critical of the regulation on strategic plans: 40% of the cap budget is going to be devoted to environmental and climate issues, to the exclusion of other needs in the sector, and we cannot expect our farmers and stock farmers to make a green cap when they are in the red. production costs have been able to increase and in some cases even triple. bureaucracy continues to grow like a weed and keeps us away from the simplification we were looking for and aspiring to at the beginning of this process. so what message are we sending to our farmers and ranchers - our other heroes in this pandemic, by the way? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. this cap has too much ideology and too little agriculture.
mr president, congratulations to all those involved in the process of adopting the common agricultural policy. we are at the end of some complicated debates, but at the same time at the beginning of a long road of policy implementation that will affect the lives of farmers in the coming years. the cap will enable european farmers to develop and modernise their farms, provide them with a better livelihood and a safer future for their children and families, and provide real support in their efforts to keep the countryside alive. whether it's rain, sleet, frost or blizzard, farmers have been and will continue to be the frontline soldiers in the battle to ensure food security, combat climate change and be the deciding factor in preserving biodiversity. although they are often affected by unfair competition, because of policies that are not well anchored in the realities on the ground, they have provided us all with quality food at affordable prices, and we must ensure that we maintain this capacity in the future. the money provided through the cap is nothing more than an advance paid to farmers for the food that more than 500 million european citizens enjoy every day. it is therefore the responsibility of the member states to draw up national strategic plans that put farmers at the centre, reduce red tape and ensure the sustainability of farms, and the european commission must monitor the implementation of this policy in every corner of the european union, as it is the guarantee of a better life for each of you.
mr president, commissioner, the common agricultural policy which is being proposed to us today is an outdated document which is very unfavourable to europe. europe has made new commitments to combat global warming. this cap, in perfect continuity with the previous one, openly ignores them. among the urgent issues to be addressed was the territorial impact of productivist agricultural policies, which the cap will continue to encourage; the result is a disfigured and desertified territory. they are the result of hyper-productivism which destroys soils and landscapes and economically drives most of the peasants out of the intensive agricultural areas. they are also suffering from the loss of vast areas of land that are considered to be too unsuitable for the dominant agricultural model, and the loss of their landscapes and their people, whose traditional economy is based on agriculture. we needed a cap that was in harmony with nature, in harmony with its territories and effective against global warming. your cap proposal does not break with the past on any of these vital issues. we will vote against it and we will fight it.
president. - we are voting today on 270 billion in european agricultural subsidies, for more mega-stalls, for more pesticides and for more pollution. many farmers, environmental organizations, climate activists have turned against this agricultural policy, because with this disastrous plan, the green deal becomes a black deal in one fell swoop. the future of farmers, animals, nature and the environment is being sold off. how is it that this parliament voted for the climate emergency, for the biodiversity strategy and for the farmer to the plate strategy, when it is now about to do the exact opposite? this common agricultural policy will not solve the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the animal welfare crisis, but will instead fuel them. there 's only one choice: i am not going to vote for this cap. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished. vote this cap down!
mr president, a little over a year ago the spanish delegation of the european people's party voted against the cap proposal put forward by this parliament: the proposal was too rigid in its environmental requirements and it put at risk a large part of the income that spanish farmers currently receive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of beef and veal, and that the aid is not used to finance the production of beef and veal. however, i recognize that this proposal we are voting on today is still not the ideal cap for the spanish people's party: mainly, it is still a cap with far less funds than the previous one precisely when farmers and livestock farmers need them most, but now the ball is in the court of the member states. today the european parliament will give the spanish government the tools it needs to support farmers once and for all: the sanchez government will have to use all the flexibility we have obtained from brussels to adapt to the needs of the spanish countryside. the spanish countryside is going through a critical moment, with raw material prices soaring and electricity bills hitting records. it is time for the sánchez government to listen to farmers and cattle farmers, to stop boycotting them and to use the money that this cap has to help them in such a difficult time.
mr president, after three years of intensive negotiations, we have finally voted on the political agreement on the cap, and i want to congratulate the architects first of all, because it has been complex, it has not been easy at all, and after encounters and disagreements we have managed to improve what was initially proposed. it is true that it is not perfect, but today we are voting for a more ambitious cap, a more just cap, a greener and more sustainable cap, in line with the new environmental requirements, and therefore more committed, and we are voting for a more social cap in which the role of women in the countryside is finally recognised, and in which young people are supported, generational change is encouraged and life in the countryside is stimulated, and also, very importantly, the rights of agricultural workers are guaranteed. we have not been without difficulties, but we have struck the right balance to ensure that social and environmental commitments are not at odds with the economic viability of farms and the future of the countryside. the cap supports in particular european family, professional, small and medium-sized farms and provides the support and certainty needed in times of crisis to continue to offer consumers the best agri-food products in the world from a more innovative, more competitive and healthier agriculture.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i cannot help but start today by thanking abir for her work on this very important report for the european union and for the future of our european economy. together with the negotiators from all political groups, we have seen how together we can come up with the strongest proposals to address not only the needs of the european union today, but the needs of the european union of the future. so we are not just asking the european commission, but we are here putting forward our own set of long-term, future-proof proposals. we want a stronger european union. an ambitious european union a courageous european union that never stops changing. a european union with the most talent possible to excel in all fields. a european union that continues to grow and not just starts to prepare for a contraction. i say this because today we have a great challenge: shops, restaurants, factories, hospitals, schools that are not finding enough workers to offer all their services. in malta, i heard the cries of several small entrepreneurs, and i think of a young man like sean gravina who invested all his time in creating what he had always dreamed of, only to find a wall without workers to employ. i also heard the concerns of hospital managers that, despite the fact that during the pandemic several foreign nurses and doctors, along with local ones, kept our hospitals running, they are finding that europe is no longer attractive to them and that they are moving to other parts of the world. as the commissioner said, i mentioned a european union that wants to continue to grow and is not preparing to start shrinking because we have a bad reality. we are the most aging continent. an ageing society that will no longer be productive as we know it today. we need to attract talent to all of us and we need to do so in a way that does not endanger the lives of those who will come to europe to contribute to the work. because not addressing the current situation does not mean that we will not have workers from countries outside the european union, but it does mean that these workers come irregularly, are likely to end up working undeclared and we are allowing labour protection standards to be eroded with unacceptable exploitation. i therefore look forward to the forthcoming proposals from the european commission in this regard so that, as a european union, we can achieve all our ambitions.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner margarítis schinás, ladies and gentlemen, in its new pact on asylum and migration, the commission has failed to include a clause on work opportunities in the european union for third-country nationals, despite the requests of my renew europe group. i am therefore very pleased with the proposals put forward by my colleague, mr abir al-sahlani, in cooperation with all the fictitious rapporteurs and groups. indeed, some key sectors of our economy have a high demand for labour. in fact, essential areas are already occupied by workers from third countries. that said, they represent, for example, 5% of carers in the eu. our proposals also aim to reduce disparities between member states in terms of access to the labour market and attractiveness for talent from third countries, while fully respecting the competence of the member states in this area. with this text we are calling on the commission (but you told us that you were going to do so, commissioner) to submit legislative proposals to better harmonise the conditions for the entry of foreign workers into the european union. and i also propose, commissioner, that you consider cooperation programmes for the training of the talents we recruit in the third countries from which they come. this legal migration is a central objective for the attractiveness and competitiveness of the european union.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i’d like to thank the rapporteur and the whole team that have been working on this file. we have achieved an ambitious report. the current european union framework places too much emphasis on high-skilled workers and not enough on middle- and lower-skilled workers and pathways of labour mobility for migrants of all skill levels are crucial. however, we believe it’s time to stop seeing labour migration only as a solution to current socioeconomic problems based only on the immediate needs of employers. we must understand this in a broader system which takes into account a number of criteria. also, in the case of asylum seekers and undocumented workers, they must have access to employment and the same labour rights, ensuring swift action to regularise their status and prevent exploitation at their place of work. creating safe and legal pathways is the only way to reduce reliance on unsafe and irregular routes. it’s essential to protect and prioritise vulnerable groups such as children, women and lgbtiq persons, as it is these groups who suffer the most. we need real, actual and ambitious policies to make the union strong and a place where human rights matter.
mr president, the glasgow summit has shown us very revealing images, such as the congestion of the airport terminal with the private jets of the most reputed climate gurus, who say that the workers' tractors and vans pollute a lot; or the teenage greta, with the scientific arguments of a science priestess who does not go to school, shouting at the authorities to shove the climate up their ass, literally. beyond the anecdotal, the substantial point is that the important issues have not been discussed, namely the concerns of citizens and small businesses about energy poverty, rising costs or rural exodus. that wasn't on the agenda. in spain, the thermal power plants are being blown up and now they are importing coal from indonesia, and the insolvencies in spain are going to be the highest in the world. the summit's final declaration and the various agreements reached highlight the enormous gap between the eu's green fantasies and the productive and economic reality of our main trading partners and competitors. the european union is a fictitious leader. its claim to be an example for countries like china or india to follow in the green road map has failed miserably. a little restraint, please, on ideological ambitions which cause great harm to the common european and little or no benefit to anyone.
mr president, commissioner, the glasgow climate summit has produced a set of declarations, of good intentions, on the importance of keeping global warming below 1.5 degrees. all right, but pretty words are no longer enough to make the planet sustainable and habitable. we need to move forward - europe needs to move forward - without waiting for others. how did you do that? the european union should set up a climate club of countries that agree to put a price on carbon: countries that are part of the club will be able to trade freely with europe because their companies will be making an effort to fight climate change; countries that are not part of the club will have to pay a tariff - our carbon border adjustment mechanism - to be able to trade with europe. and in that way we achieve two things: first, we give incentives to other countries to join in this effort; and second, we prevent european companies from moving to other countries to avoid paying the carbon price. in short, commissioner, the world consensus will not arrive in time. we must use the commercial power of spain and europe to get the rest of the world to join us in our fight for a more sustainable and humane planet.
mr president, dear vice-president, the work of european leadership in glasgow must be recognized. the commitments made have been a major step towards the paris agreement, but they are still not enough if they do not always mean action. it is important that we have a common foreign and security policy. the review of national contributions next year is perhaps the last chance to align ourselves with 1.5 degrees. we've waited until 2021 to celebrate the first mention of carbon reduction and fossil fuel subsidies. we finally have the rule book and progress has been made on article 6. we need global carbon markets for ambition and to level the playing field. doubling climate finance, commitments to reverse deforestation or the agreement on methane emissions have been a moderately positive balance. although i must admit that some member states have been in a skirmish, more concerned with their internal issues than with the fight against climate change. we are still far from addressing the climate emergency. we're going to be pioneers in decarbonization and that's going to make us make mistakes. let us all learn from each other and seek to engage citizens in a challenge that affects us without exception. with ambition, yes, and social justice, because it's a social and equity issue that's behind climate change.
mr president, commissioner, vice-president, we all know that the glasgow text uses language that we could call 'cautious', sometimes not always clear, which sometimes justifies the frustration of scientists, activists and, in general, all those who want to move forward faster. but there are positive points about this cop26 and i want to say them here today, in this house: for the first time the target of a rapid and deep reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, by 45% by 2030, is included. we have already talked about the target of reducing emissions by one and a half degrees, not two. the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and also to reduce the use of coal is mentioned. the importance of forests in mitigating climate change is recognised (an agreement signed by over 100 countries to stop deforestation by 2030). and there have also been numerous agreements - voluntary ones, to be sure - which send very important messages: the reduction of methane, the elimination of combustion vehicles or the cooperation agreement between the two biggest polluters on the planet, the united states and china. i therefore believe that the important thing about this conference is that we establish a common framework, harmonized rules of the game, common guidelines and that it is therefore true that it is now the turn of the countries, the regions and also the local authorities. the results could have been more ambitious or better, of course, but it is step by step and together that we must build this global consensus, necessary to walk towards a sustainable and just world. and it is important, mr timmermans, that europe should follow and take the lead in this consensus.
the cop26 concluded on 13 november in glasgow with an agreement which could have been more ambitious, but which nevertheless reflects some progress which the spanish socialist delegation welcomes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport sector. other highlights of the agreement include the goal of not exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature warming limit, the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and reduce coal use, and the importance of forests in mitigating climate change. the socialist group welcomes the work of frans timmermans in the negotiations and the work of the european leadership at the summit. the small progress achieved is a major step towards the objectives of the paris agreement, but we believe it is not enough. the spanish socialists insist on the need for the eu to continue to lead by example, adapting ambitious climate policies and cooperating with the rest of the international actors to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
the cop26 concluded on 13 november in glasgow with an agreement which could have been more ambitious, but which nevertheless reflects some progress which the spanish socialist delegation welcomes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport sector. other highlights of the agreement include the goal of not exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature warming limit, the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and reduce coal use, and the importance of forests in mitigating climate change. the socialist group welcomes the work of frans timmermans in the negotiations and the work of the european leadership at the summit. the small progress achieved is a major step towards the objectives of the paris agreement, but we believe it is not enough. the spanish socialists insist on the need for the eu to continue to lead by example, adapting ambitious climate policies and cooperating with the rest of the international actors to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
in writing. during and after cop26, we were bombarded with impressive numbers. figures on the ambition for emissions reductions needed to save the planet and figures on the investments and support that will have to be made available to make the transition fair and to ensure that it is not the poorest who pay for the well-being and sustainability of the richest's lifestyle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to stress the recognition of european leadership in seeking the best solutions and the strongest commitments. this european leadership in the green transition is mainly the result of the ability to make a difference, to commit to an ecological pact that covers all policies, with a strong push for the energy transition and all the technologies associated with it. translating this to the global level implies that leadership is multilateral and people-centred. this is the great challenge facing the union in the post-cop26 era: to lead by the domestic implementation of its policies and by the way it cooperates in capacity building so that the least developed countries can do so as well.
ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured to have with us today mrs sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, whom i thank for her presence. (applause from the centre and the right) one of the important and prestigious leaders of the democratic opposition in belarus who, as you will recall, along with other leaders of the democratic opposition, was awarded the sakharov prize 2020, and who accepted my invitation to address the european parliament. sviatlana is a symbol, along with others, of the struggle for democracy and freedom, and she is a voice for many political prisoners who are currently imprisoned in belarus and whom we do not want to forget. more than a year after the elections, the results of which have not been recognised by the european union, belarus continues to violate the rights of its citizens, silence civil society, and use repression as a daily weapon. the regime has not hesitated to use men, women and children in need of protection, putting their lives in danger, with no respect for fundamental human rights, for the sole purpose of destabilizing the european union. we are also saying it again in this house today: the union securities are not for sale. and this parliament also asks the other institutions to be equal to the defence of fundamental rights. there are currently 900 political prisoners in belarus, including the 2020 sakharov prize winners, and let's remind them: he was involved in the recruitment and use of russian troops in eastern ukraine. we are with them and will continue to demand their freedom. (applause) i would like to thank at this important moment we have mrs sviatlana, who has the floor to speak. thank you, sir.
winner of the sakharov prize 2020. – mr president, distinguished members of the european parliament, right now in belarus, there are more political prisoners than members of this chamber assembled here today; 882 of my fellow citizens have been recognised to be in prison for exercising basic political rights people in the rest of europe take for granted. if we invited all of the belarusians unjustly imprisoned for the wrong colour of their dress or socks, even four halls like this one would not be enough room. on behalf of them and fellow belarusians who believe in freedoms this union represents, i speak to you today. among them are my husband, siarhei, and my friend maria kalesnikava. among them is also ales bialiatski. just one year ago, he was with us at the european parliament receiving the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. ales returned home and half a year later was arrested for his work at the human rights centre ‘viasna’. the case of ales shows that the belarusian crisis is much closer to all of us than it might seem. just recently, ales was here for all to greet and congratulate, and now he is behind bars. belarusians are no longer safe in their country and abroad, and neither, in this case, are other europeans. as we have seen, the regime in belarus has shown itself willing to seize individuals from international flights, misuse international agencies and agreements to punish dissent. to weaponise migrants in a way deliberately designed to undermine the stability and security of europe. confronted with this challenge, we can feel paralysed by fear, or, we can take our destiny into our hands and turn the tide of european history in our favour. when i addressed the european parliament last december, i spoke about the year 2020. i said then: ‘this year the world has seen belarus awakening’. in 2021, the world saw belarus actively resisting a regime that has only grown more abusive. but has the world seen europe standing with us in support of our shared values, our freedom, and our dignity? we saw that europe can not only talk the talk, but also walk the walk. belarusians saw brave european diplomats like dirk schuebel who were willing to take a risk regarding values and principles. belarusians were pleasantly surprised by unprecedented action by the european commission to announce a comprehensive plan for the future of belarus. belarusians were grateful to the european parliament for the sakharov prize and vocal support for political prisoners. but belarusians also saw the year 2021 in detail, and i would like to briefly explain the way that the year 2021 has been passing for my fellow countrymen. in january, police in belarus started arresting dissenting citizens, breaking right into their homes. in february, two young journalists, daria tchultsova and katsiaryna andreeva, were sentenced to two years’ imprisonment. all they had done was to report on the protest meeting after the terrible death of raman bandarenka – after beatings by the security forces. meanwhile, in europe, we heard mostly polite urgings to respect freedom of speech in belarus as analysts speculated that perhaps the political crisis had ended. in march, hundreds of people were detained simply for being outdoors on belarusian independence day, so much did the regime fear new street protests. meanwhile in europe, many said that the situation must have ‘stabilised’ since there were no new pictures of mass protests. even though 800 000 belarusians have voted for negotiations via the online platform, holas. in april, the regime’s foreign affairs minister promised to ‘destroy civil society’. people in prisons were poisoned with chlorine. meanwhile, in europe, the media interest in belarus was rapidly vanishing. may was the crucial turning point. the biggest online independent news site tut.by was shut down and its team imprisoned. democratic activist vitold ashurak died in prison for unknown reasons. seventeen-year-old dzmitry stakhouski couldn’t bear the endless interrogations by the police. he killed himself. finally, there was the outrage of the state-sponsored hijacking of a ryanair plane to kidnap blogger raman pratasevich. only after that did europe take the first stronger measures against the regime. nine whole months after the human rights catastrophe in belarus began. i am grateful for the eu’s firm response to the regime’s outrageous grounding of a european flight. this was a moment the european union can truly be proud of. but still, would this have happened if only non-eu citizens were on board this ryanair flight? are democracy and human rights reserved only for eu citizens? in june, political prisoner stsiapan latypau attempted suicide in court because the regime threatened to torture his father if he didn’t plead guilty. meanwhile, in europe, politicians were fretting that sanctions might hurt ordinary belarusians. as if belarusians were not already suffering. as if they blamed the eu. according to surveys most belarusians blame the regime for existing sanctions, not the eu. in july, another aspiring presidential candidate viktar babaryka was sentenced to 14 years in prison. the same month the regime made good on its promise to ‘destroy civil society’. it closed dozens of independent media and 270 ngos and arrested many of their employees and volunteers. meanwhile, in europe, we heard expressions of deep concern. in august, olympic athlete krystina tsimanouskaya was almost kidnapped during the games in tokyo simply for criticising belarusian sports management. same time, the imf signed over one billion dollars in covid support to belarus. a country where prisoners are being deliberately infected with covid. meanwhile, in europe, the media focus was exclusively on other global issues. in september, my friend maria kalesnikava was sentenced to 11 years in prison. it worker andrey zeltser was shot dead during a kgb raid of his apartment. his wife, as the only witness, was sent to a psychiatric hospital. and nearly 200 belarusians have been arrested for ‘negative comments’ online about this event. meanwhile, all over europe, well-funded lobbyists were working furiously to block new sanctions against this abusive regime. in october, the migrant crisis exploded to a full scale. at the same time, the 64-year old politician ryhor kastusiou remains in prison with suspected cancer. he receives no medical aid. and in europe, the regime continued using interpol to pressure the dissidents abroad. finally, in november, the tensions at the belarusian-polish border reached boiling point. thousands of foreign citizens taken hostage by the regime have come to the focus of the eu. phone calls have been exchanged to alleviate their conditions. but at the same time, nine million belarusians remain hostages of the regime. have we forgotten the tragic lessons of our european past? that tyrants are emboldened by appeasement, not placated. that when you avoid confrontation with a bully, you only make the inevitable showdown that much more costly and dangerous. but do you really suppose it will stop there? we are already seeing how dangerous a regime like this can be to its neighbours. lithuania and poland are facing the biggest test of their border security. by the way, polska, lietuva, stay strong! we know that you pay a big price for being true and principled friends to the people of belarus. supposing this abuse of migrants is somehow stopped, do you really believe the regime’s threats beyond its borders will end there? increases in the flow of smuggled drugs and other contraband? a military provocation? a disaster at a nuclear power plant right on the eu’s external borders? none of this is just my imagination. these are threats that the regime itself has made. whatever it takes to get what it wants. meanwhile, europe hesitates, time goes by for those unjustly imprisoned, killed, or exiled. time is measured differently for belarusians. it’s measured in lost moments of happiness, moments that are the right of every one of us to experience. moments that are the reason why all of us want to live in freedom and dignity. moments that belarusians are deprived of. for me, those would be moments when my daughter agnia might see the loving face of her father siarhei seeing her off on her first day of school. moments when my son karnei could feel the support of a father who helps him to fix his bicycle. for other mothers like dasha losik, volha zalatar, alena bondarenka, time is measured in tears. when you don’t know if your husband is still alive. when you’re behind bars and you have no news about your five children. when all that is left of your child is a framed photograph with a black ribbon. because they beat him to death when he asked them not to remove the white-red-white ribbons hung in his backyard. for the workers in mtz, belkalii, hrodna azot, time is measured in sweat spilled while forced by the regime to work in unbearable and dangerous conditions. conditions that are close to being slavery. work with no rights. for thousands of activists across the country, time is measured in units of stress and anxiety. because even though they choose ‘safer’ methods of resistance like distributing self-published newspapers, pasting stickers, joining independent labour movements, every day they risk arrest. and for our medics from voranava to hotimsk, from verhnedvinsk to bragin, time is measured in hours of overtime and in the minutes of sleep they are allowed. because, due to the regime’s disregard of the pandemic, their workload has tripled. ladies and gentlemen, do you think these people understand what we mean when we talk about the eu’s long bureaucratic processes and complex diplomacy? do you think our statements of deep concern give them hope and confidence? what can the european union really say to the people of belarus – to the forgotten europeans – who want the same things the rest of europe enjoys? perhaps we don’t have the right to demand your help or support. perhaps you may refuse us because it may contradict your national interest. or perhaps it’s bad for your businesses. but i am here to ask for your support, nevertheless. our fight for freedom is your fight for freedom too. only by standing together and acting decisively does democracy have the chance to survive in this world. distinguished representatives of europe, pardon my straightforwardness, but i must say it: it is getting late! since august 2020, there have been ample gestures and expressions of solidarity. belarusians were praised for reigniting their faith in democracy and human dignity. is it not the turn of europeans to demonstrate their commitment to those values with actions? will europe as a whole have the courage to take decisive action now? or will we wait another year? dear ladies and gentlemen, we don’t have another year. neither does belarus. neither does europe. there is more we can do than just wait and react. the regime in minsk is motivated by fear of the belarusian people. hence, the escalation of violence. meanwhile, the belarusians are not giving up. three independent surveys show more than half of belarusians want a new presidential election. despite intense political pressure, belarusians are still finding ways to protest. maybe not in the ways that get the attention of your media. but thousands have joined mobilisation initiatives like ‘victory plan’ and ‘the workers’ movement’. they are coordinating and preparing for new rallies and strikes when they are possible. independent media and civil society groups have reorganised abroad and continue to work for belarus. and i am proud of each of the brave belarusians in our country and in our diaspora. it is they who will change our country for the better. new belarus is not only about the future. it is already being born and growing. but today it needs your help. we need europe to be more proactive when facing autocracy. the cliché about belarus being ‘the last dictatorship of europe’ is, in a way, misleading. dictatorship does not have natural geographical limits. it spreads if it is not stopped. dictatorships, after all, can be compared to a virus infecting the body. we all know that the more disease is ignored, the more difficult it is to treat it in the future. it’s now clear to the whole world that waiting and seeing is not the right strategy to address the virus. action is crucial. to successfully overcome a virus a three-part strategy can help. first, isolation to prevent its spread. second, treatment to remove its negative effects. and last, but not least, the immunity which allows keeping the body in good shape. the same strategies can be applied by europe when dealing with the virus of dictatorship in belarus. the first part of our strategy should be the isolation and non-recognition of the regime. many belarusians are hurt to see that even today such influential european media – from deutsche welle to the bbc – call aleksander lukashenko ‘president’. he is not. calling him president shapes the wrong perception among millions of viewers. he is a citizen of belarus who has illegally usurped presidential power by violence. europe, let’s stand up to your decisions! you did not recognise the elections, so do not call this impostor for what he isn’t. do not recognise any deals made without belarusians’ agreement. speak clear and loud: the contracts signed by the regime after 9 august 2020 are and will be legally void. lukashenko is gambling with belarus’ sovereignty. we must stay firm in non-recognition policy and be clear that independence and sovereignty cannot be traded or undermined. this non-recognition should be coherent. new ambassadors to belarus shouldn’t be appointed, nor should anyone who respects freedom, human rights and the rule of law receive the regime’s ambassadors. we also shouldn’t invite its representatives to international gatherings, sport or cultural events. suspend the regime’s participation in interpol. this would send a signal that abuses will no longer be tolerated. instead, i encourage you to give a voice to the belarusian people. invite belarusian democratic forces to all international fora to represent them at the highest level, particularly during the eastern partnership summit. the second part of our strategy is treatment. we should push back on the regime and limit its access to the resources it uses to maintain power. when your child is ill, you know you have to give him medicine even if it hurts to see him resisting. but you realise that this is the only way. the same principle should apply when we talk about european sanctions against the regime. let me assure you: sanctions do work. continue holding a consistent sanctions policy. sanctions split the elites, destroy corruption schemes and divide people around lukashenko, as no one wants to share the responsibilities for the regime’s crimes. let us be firm. we must not let lobbyists block the necessary sanctions. let’s close all remaining loopholes. let’s coordinate our actions with the us and the uk to make the sanctions effective and not merely symbolic. by all means, let us be consistent. it makes little sense to further invest in the mafia regime. send a message that we will not enrich it so that it can use these resources to abuse its citizens. and of course, let us be true to international law. give the green light to prosecute the human rights offenders under the universal criminal jurisdiction. invoke the regime’s responsibility for capturing the civilian aircraft and its hybrid attack on the eu borders. let’s make sure all the evidence of the regime’s crimes will lay on the table of the international tribunal, at icc and icj. i call on europe to take the initiative in that. the third part of our strategy is immunity. we need to boost the natural resistance and backbone of belarusian society. i call on europe to expand assistance to our people. it requires flexibility and a non-conventional approach to reach those on the ground. to human rights defenders, media, citizen journalists and journalists-investigators, local neighbourhoods, activists, volunteers, initiatives promoting belarusian language and culture. programmes of rehabilitation for families of the repressed, and programmes of psychological aid. people must feel they are not abandoned. let us stand together in solidarity. let’s not forget the belarusian prisoners of conscience and their families. do not let the regime manipulate the migrant-smuggling in order to obscure the human rights catastrophe inside the country. both belarusians and migrants are now hostages of the regime. and these two problems can’t be solved separately. remember, to cure the virus we need to treat the problem at its root, not just the symptoms. and let us all be true to our principles. let’s help those who were forced to leave the country. many belarusians fled in a hurry, with short-term schengen visas. many belarusians don’t like to be considered as immigrants but as temporary relocants. they want to get back home soon, but they need small things like legal stay and work permits. though we usually speak of democracy in high terms, democracy is made of small details too. help belarusians, so they can help belarus and europe, too. so we could continue the fight for our freedom and yours. i know that i’m surrounded here by allies and partners like president sassoli, vice-president metsola. to all group members ‘friends of democratic belarus’ who took godparenthood for dozens of political prisoners in belarus, who sent them letters and postcards, today i brought a response for you. these are ‘freedom postcards’ – drawings made by political prisoners in their letters. they feel your support, my dear friends. so as millions of belarusians who are sincerely grateful to you and all the members of the european parliament for your firm position, for your statements, for your resolutions. but they also want the words to be materialised in actions. people on the ground in belarus have huge expectations from you for one simple reason. they want to see in europe an example to be followed. let us be true to europe. the dream of a united europe is not a dream about a bureaucratic system or an economic union alone. it is the dream of sisterhood and brotherhood. of a community of nations and people that cooperate peacefully and respectfully, in freedom and dignity. it is a dream about shared values of respect for human rights, of representative, constitutional government, and the rule of law. being a community means walking a common path together. last year, when we met i said about belarus: ‘every country has its own path to democracy, and this is ours’. now, one year later, belarusians are much closer to their goal. but the road has become more difficult. obstacles are constantly being thrown in our path. today not only democracy in belarus but also democracy in europe depends on whether we will walk this path together and overcome these obstacles together. it is time to show that european values are, and will continue to be, our greatest source of strength and the only solid foundation for peace and prosperity. i am here today to invite you to walk this path with us. thank you very much. (exclamation in belarusian) long live belarus and long live europe! (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
i thank mrs sviatlana for her words. your freedom is our freedom. the european parliament is very much convinced of this. thank you for coming.
it is with great sadness that we have learned of the terrible bus accident near sofia, bulgaria, which claimed the lives of 46 people, including many children. on behalf of the european parliament and myself, i would like to express our full solidarity with the families and friends of the victims, and with the people of north macedonia and bulgaria. so i invite you to observe a moment of silence, thank you. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence) ' i should like to inform the house that i have received a point of order and that i will give the floor to mr zimniok. the issue is the shortcomings in the procedures of parliamentary committees. mr zimniok, you have the floor.
mr president, this point of order is due to the fact that we have just heard the words of mrs tsijanovskaya of belarus. we are facing the greatest aggression at the moment, not only against the people of belarus itself, but an unprecedented aggression against the borders of the european union, against poland. we are seeing an attack on our borders and it turns out that the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs is not here. mr. borrell is not where he should be most of the time. mr borrell has sent a mission to venezuela, in which he has only made a fool of himself and seriously damaged the credibility of the european union, but, above all, at this moment of aggression against the european union and poland, at poland's borders, mr borrell is absent and we do not have him. that's not how it should be. and i report it here.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, it is great that with the commissioner and minister we are able to have this occasion to think about how to vaccinate the world, which must be a big priority for all of us. today, the european parliament can celebrate that we managed to get europe to spend eur 1.4 billion extra to vaccinate the world. that’s a good conquest, but almost two years after the pandemic, we still cannot promise families that they will spend christmas together. we still cannot promise workers that they will be able to have work all winter – and we will not be able to promise that while the virus is going all around the planet infecting people. it’s important for moral reasons, important for health reasons, important for ethical reasons and political reasons: europe must take the lead in vaccinating the world. but so far the member states have only delivered 23% of the doses that they have promised the world. we cannot accept that our countries continue to promise this, to write these nice pieces of paper with nice promises, and not deliver. so that’s why, together with chrysoula zacharopoulou, our rapporteur, we ask you, the member states and the commission, to accelerate the delivery of the doses, to get the logistics in place, the syringes, etc. – it’s crucial – and to make the information transparent and to fight disinformation. but it’s not only in the world that we need to act, we also need to act at home. while the citizens of the world are clamouring for the vaccines, in europe we have a lot of people who have access to vaccines but choose not to vaccinate themselves. we must also be stronger on that. if we don’t have the vaccines, we cannot win this fight. that’s why we need a stronger approach. we must fight with all our means against those who spread hoaxes, also in europe, and in the world. we must encourage everyone to get vaccinated. those who did get vaccinated should not have to stay at home to protect those who chose not to get vaccinated. so we must modify the european passport to make it a vaccination passport, and we must require the passport throughout europe to travel and to go to public places. finally, we have to get the booster shots, the third vaccinations, into everybody and, as the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) said this morning, the commission must make all the necessary doses available. ultimately, the union must aspire to universal vaccination of the entire planet, starting with our citizens. we must return to normal pre—covid as soon as possible, and we have it at our fingertips.
madam president, vaccinating the world is the best way to reduce the health, economic and social impact of the pandemic. but a path with constraints. many countries do not have access to vaccines because they do not have the resources to buy them. africa has less than 10 percent of its population vaccinated. all over the world, populists use vaccines to fracture societies and consolidate their power at the expense of people's suffering. millions of people are infected with dark theories and refuse to be vaccinated. in the european union, we must be true to our values and ambitious in this process, promoting and spreading scientific knowledge and technological capacity to produce and apply vaccines around the world, fighting speculation and regulating the production and distribution of vaccines, in order to ensure that they are public goods accessible to all, without strangling the system of research and innovation that has enabled quality responses in record time. it's not an easy challenge. it is perhaps the greatest challenge we face and we must be able to overcome it!
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union has played an extremely important and positive role in the fight against the covid-19 pandemic. european citizens had access to enough vaccines in a relatively short time to vaccinate and protect the majority of the population. what a privilege that is compared with citizens in poorer parts of the world! unfortunately, negative propaganda, mistrust and fear have also deterred many of our citizens from vaccinating. i support the european union's assistance to poorer countries and their people by providing more vaccines. 300 million doses of vaccine by the end of the year is actually a modest number compared to the population in poorer countries. but given their poor organization, it is questionable whether they will use it in a timely and proper manner. many people suffer from poverty, malnutrition, poor health systems, and that makes them even more vulnerable than we are. by helping others, we help ourselves. because infectious diseases know no boundaries. and in a globally connected world, people are traveling and collaborating, and we don't want to see any more barriers and health boundaries.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. efficient global vaccination is one of our top priorities in the fight against the pandemic. it's the only way we can effectively defeat covid-19, which unfortunately is mutating very quickly, and it's the only way we can secure global supply chains by preventing uncontrolled closures of ports and factories. increasing vaccination rates worldwide is therefore important both from a health and economic point of view. and it's fair to say that the european union has already done a lot to provide vaccines to low- and middle-income countries. at the beginning of this year, our contribution to covax was doubled to eur 1 billion. at the same time, however, vaccination rates in low-income countries remain shockingly low, at only about 2%. improving the flow of raw materials needed for vaccine production and supporting the development of local production capacities is key. and let us not forget the campaigns to promote vaccination and protection. finally, there is the question of the effective use of vaccines that are already available. it's understandable that every country wants to secure the supply of vaccines for their citizens. but while so many people are still waiting for their turn, we cannot allow a situation where vaccines are simply being held in storage or wasted. covid-19 is obviously our global priority, but we can't forget about other diseases either. aids, tuberculosis, malaria, they're not gone, and they're even more difficult to fight with covid-19. any programmes to combat these diseases should continue to be supported.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a certain amount of rhetoric, i was about to say hypocrisy, is tolerable in international relations and statements on global cooperation, but this rhetoric becomes unbearable and unacceptable when it comes to health, when it comes to the life and death of people. i think that if we say "we must be safe when we are all safe", "we will vaccinate 70 percent of the population", as was said at the g20, we must be consistent in fact, in action and not just in intentions. so it's important to change the pace. europe has been commendable in the procurement and distribution of vaccines and it is commendable now because it is at the forefront of covax and the other international initiatives that the commissioner has called for, but today we need to do more. i say to you, madam commissioner, to the whole commission, and to the council: you have to take one step further, and that step is this, it's really close. the wto ministerial conference must apply the possibilities of temporary suspension of patents and compulsory licences and tell the world that this is the only time, this is the only time, this is the pandemic, this is the world's difficulty and tragedy. it is not a positive action, it is a call for responsibility on the part of everyone, including businesses, and i hope that the commission and the council will do this at the wto.
madam president, vaccination is the best example of inequality in the world. we are not delivering on agenda 2030, leaving people behind. the booster shots in rich countries are going much faster than the vaccination in poorer countries. more people in europe are vaccinated with the booster dose than in developing countries are vaccinated with even the first dose. so, this is a scandal that we must stop. we know the data perfectly well: latin america and the caribbean, one of the regions most affected by the pandemic, with bleeding data like that of haiti, with 0.35%; africa, as has been said, with 6% of people vaccinated with a complete schedule; no approved vaccine or distributed, for example, in eritrea. while we in this parliament are engaged in grandiloquent debates on the temporary exemption of patents in the world trade organisation - which we of course support - we can and must also focus on priorities such as the donation of surplus vaccines from our development cooperation and humanitarian aid competence. the spanish government, together with france and germany, are the most supportive in europe, but we also have the other 24 member states, which we must convene. we can promote a donor summit from the european union, as has been done with other issues, for example, the refugees from venezuela. the covax mechanism, which so many from the south have relied on, is fine, but in fact only 250 million of the more than 1,400 doses committed are coming in. another important issue is supply chains. from team europe, this tremendous mechanism that we have, we're using our power and our expertise to improve supply chains. several developing countries are delaying vaccines, asking not to be given to them because they don't have mechanisms to maintain them, to improve distribution chains.
mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the pharmaceutical strategy, which has just been adopted by a large majority, i would like to thank you for this great support, because this is how we put patients at the centre of our health policies in europe, and this is how europe will be better prepared for future health emergencies. vaccines are the best weapon to fight covid-19: the joint effort in the european union together with our health systems, professionals, public-private cooperation and our industry has proven this. the data backs it up: we lead the world in vaccination. but there's still a lot of work to be done. there are still more than 120 million people to be vaccinated in the european union, and covid-19, unfortunately, is going to be with us for a long time. we must therefore continue this joint effort of truthful information campaigns, which raise awareness and convince our citizens of the importance of protecting our health, and combat the fake news and disinformation that have done so much damage to the european union in this field. getting vaccinated is an act of solidarity and solidarity is one of the cornerstones of the european union. a good example is that the european union has already exported 1.5 billion vaccines to 144 countries, we have funded the covax initiative with over 3 billion euros and team europe is supporting africa with over 1 billion euros for the development of regional vaccine manufacturing centres. this is a clear example that the solution is not to lift patents, but to help transfer technology, knowledge, talent, logistics to developing countries. but we cannot settle; we must continue to lead, not back down. now is when the european union must do more to help vaccinate everyone.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, thanks to this report we confirm that the european union's energy model is a failure: a failure for people, a failure for the planet. the data show that energy consumption has not been reduced, which is essential to tackle climate change. we keep doping fossil fuels with public money. look green, but not be green. of course, it maintains its great fetish, the marginalist market, raining millions to the energy lobby at the expense of the pockets of working people. between you and me, commissioner, sometimes they seem more like big electricity company salesmen than public servants looking out for the public interest. how simple it would be to change this to reduce the electricity bill. the devastating fact is that 31 million people - equivalent to half the population of france - do not have access to the minimum vital energy and are cold today, with this temperature. the fact is, mrs simson, that as long as they continue to make policy on the basis of energy, neither climate change nor energy poverty nor justice will reach european households. it's in your hands.
mr president, commissioner, unusual year, unusual report. we're talking about the year of the great lockdown with emissions reductions of up to 10% by 2020... it's not the reality of today. renewable sources are becoming the main source of electricity generation: let us support them, even though some say they are not important because the sun does not shine at night. however, external energy dependence is 61% - the highest in thirty years - and we are suffering record prices from the escalation of the price of fossil gas. we are in a very difficult time for many citizens, smes and industries that may be left behind. i think that the price crisis is being underestimated and the impact of prolonging it for months. we must accelerate renewables: there is no other way. but let's send the right signals for decarbonization and for not investing in increasing our dependence on fossil fuels. it is time to move forward by decarbonising and engaging, at the same time, the citizens in the great changes that await us. without social support, there will be no solution to the climate emergency.
in writing. the annual state of the energy union report reviews progress on energy and provides an overview of the five dimensions of the energy union. this year is an atypical report due to the covid-19 pandemic and the great lockdown. for example, the unprecedented reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 10% in 2020 is highlighted. the report also analyses the sharp rise in gas and electricity prices in the european union and describes the measures proposed by the commission to deal with the situation. the s&d group has been very active in calling for and proposing measures at european level to tackle the energy price shock and protect the most vulnerable citizens. the s&d group welcomes the positive news from the report. for example, renewables will for the first time overtake fossil fuels as the main source of electricity in the eu. however, it calls for accelerated energy policies based on sustainable renewable energy sources to also reduce the eu's high energy dependence on the outside world, the highest in 30 years.
the annual report of the court of auditors is the basis for the discharge procedure for the european budget. the committee on budgetary control considers this report to be of the utmost importance, and so should the whole of parliament. so i just hope that next year we can have this debate on prime time. but well, 2020 was a difficult year for all of us, but i would like to highlight the resilience shown by the european institutions during the pandemic, which have been able to adapt quickly to continue fulfilling their mandate while protecting the health of their workers and introducing new and innovative ways of working, some of which have come to stay. the court of auditors is one example. it has been able to continue its audit work, in which it has estimated the same overall error rate as in 2019, which is evidence that things have been done well despite the difficulties. that is why we should not evaluate european policies solely on the basis of parameters such as absorption rates, because these policies have a multiannual projection and what is really important is their final result and their long-term impact, not the still picture at the end of the year and, much less, the comparison with the previous multiannual financial framework. the year 2020 is a clear example. simplifying bureaucracy, making rules clear, digitizing systems -- all of this will improve that overall error data.
mr president, maria isabel, erika, monica, zuita, pamela, amal, maría de los ángeles, maría pilar, hazna, áfrica, consuelo, alicia, rocío, nicoleta, maría teresa, betty, lucía, jordina, mari cruz, mari carmen, conchi, flora... some of the 37 women who were murdered by their partners and ex-partners, by those who claimed to love them. and while in the european union, despite the efforts of this parliament, ratification of the istanbul convention remains stalled, the commission raises doubts about gender-based violence as a euro-crime and there is controversy about the scope of the legislative proposal it intends to put forward. i only hope that the commission will not give the airs to the deniers and the far-right governments who are boycotting us in the council. those governments and their allies are the ones who are supporting the rape culture, the ones who are advancing on women's bodies in their particular "maid's tale", convinced that we are the property of men, states or churches. thousands of women are waiting for our answer and we can't leave them alone.
mr president. caroline, elenor, maria, antonia, shannon, lourdes, marija carmela, angele and chantelle. our sisters, our mothers, our friends. the nine women who have been killed in my country, malta, only in the past five years because of a very specific disease: hatred and violence towards women. and despite the 137 women who are murdered every day in the world, femicide continues to be a de facto definition, and no single member state seems to have a concrete taxonomy defining the murder of a person which is the direct result of hatred because of their gender. the root cause when it comes to gender-based violence is gender stereotyping, which not only harms women, but harms all those who identify with their gender, and those who don’t. the ratification of the istanbul convention is key in the fight against gender-based violence. it is unacceptable that bulgaria, czechia, latvia, lithuania, hungary and slovakia have still not ratified it. enough time-wasting. ratify the convention now.
mr president, yesterday i was looking for information to see how much violence against women has increased or decreased since the istanbul convention was adopted: i found nothing. i asked the european parliament's services, and they have nothing either. the european union spends billions of euros a year to promote equality - or so it says. we have women's observatories, equality commissions, ngos, governmental organizations, ministers, councillors, commissioners and even university professors, but it is impossible to find an official figure of what is happening. we don't know if violence against women is increasing or decreasing, but from listening to you, it seems to be increasing, which means that your gender policies are useless. in fact, the reality tells us the opposite: in 2015, when the mass entry of islamic immigration into germany was allowed, there was a dramatic increase in violence against women. we are clear: violence against women is combated by border controls, support for families and severe penalties against criminals and abusers. you do the opposite: you confront men and women, you talk about "toxic masculinity" and you consider all men, in general, potential rapists. we're not going to get anywhere.
mr president, since 2003 when data on violence against women began to be collected, 112 women have been killed in the basque country, 11 of them minors. behind this unacceptable number are names and stocks, stolen life projects. we especially want to remember erika tavares, conchi gonzález, aintzane pujana, maría pilar berrio and the 75-year-old biarritz neighbor who were killed in 2021 in euskal herria. to deal with this we need clear tools and commitments, and one of them is the istanbul convention, a tool that opened the perspective of what sexist violence is and demanded from states clear commitments and responses, with measures of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. as other colleagues have already said, only 21 member states have ratified the convention and the union has not yet done so. we urgently call on the european union to ratify the istanbul convention and to put it on the council's agenda immediately. we know that homes are not safe for many women, and neither are states and institutions if they do not take responsibility for conventions such as these. i want to end by thanking the feminist movement for its tireless work of awareness and action. if we are here today, it is obviously because they continue to lead the way.
madam president, it is not always hybrid warfare, sometimes it is hybrid actors in traditional or conventional conflicts that accelerate this flight from the law in an already weak and often unenforced international framework of legislation on war. but whatever the actors are and whatever the overlapping labels they are hiding behind, at the end of the chain of command and payment there is always a political power; there is a government; there is a state. these hybrid actors are policy-makers who are decided in official offices. many of my colleagues have spoken of this chain of impunity. i would like to ask you, commissioner, are you aware that this parliament has approved the creation of an observatory against impunity in the field of human rights and that the directorate-general for budgets has boycotted the creation of this observatory against impunity? is the commission aware that it may be, perhaps unwittingly, complicit in so much impunity in the world in the field of human rights? commissioner, please convey the outrage of this budgetary authority which ordered the commission to set up an observatory against impunity for this and many other cases.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for coming, although i am sorry that the commissioner responsible for this matter, in the face of an unprecedented freight transport crisis for which she is directly responsible, is not here to explain herself. ladies and gentlemen, throughout the world and in europe we are in the midst of an unprecedented supply crisis which affects the entire logistics chain and, with it, millions of people, millions of businesses, millions of european consumers. this crisis is the result of a number of factors, ranging from the fall in production in key sectors to the difficulties faced by sea and road transport. these bottlenecks, together with the sharp rise in energy prices, particularly gas, but also oil, are directly affecting the growth prospects of our economy. that is why, on behalf of my group, renew europe, and as the spokesman of this committee on transport and tourism for the liberal group, i have asked the european commission to appear before this house to explain a problem which requires one thing: action. it is true that we are faced with a question which is influenced by many market forces, such as over-demand or limited supply. but still, problems are not solved by magic. we, the people here today, are the ones who have the capacity to support our companies, especially when they face problems that they cannot act on and solve on their own. we cannot sit idly by and watch as containers are running out, freight prices are rising exponentially or companies are struggling to get their products and most essential raw materials. that's not why we're here, gentlemen. we are here to provide solutions, solutions to a global crisis, solutions to a situation that threatens to deplete thousands of businesses. and especially when we're about to start black friday, cyber monday or the christmas campaign. that is why we need to push forward an international response framework to the supply crisis that avoids these bottlenecks in the future and also makes us less dependent on asia and, specifically, china. secondly, we must boost european investment in transport infrastructure to facilitate movement and to get products to us faster and cheaper. finally, we must strengthen our road transport, rail transport, but also road transport, which is unjustly criminalized by some and which is suffering from a serious shortage of labour. the economic difficulties faced by spanish, bulgarian, romanian or any other eu country's truck drivers, aggravated by the increase in fuel prices, deserve not only our recognition but also special attention from the european institutions. i'm almost done. mr president, dear commissioner, let us learn from the mistakes of the past and not wait for crises to resolve themselves. otherwise, we are sure that the crisis will disappear, but with it our companies will disappear too. and i can assure you that we cannot afford that.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, according to eige, the union has 60 years to achieve equality. progress remains slow, stagnating or even retreating in certain regions and countries. in the area of gender-based violence, obstacles and, with them, difficulties in prosecuting crimes and providing reparation to victims continue. the ratification of the istanbul convention remains stalled and some are threatening to withdraw. i hope that the commission's proposal for a directive is truly ambitious. at the same time, sexual and reproductive rights have been threatened in countries like poland and hungary, while we give lukewarm responses to the anti-feminist advance of the far right. wage and pension gaps continue to widen and thus contribute to the feminization of poverty, including energy poverty. women have more unpaid, underpaid and undervalued jobs. so we need the minimum wage and wage transparency directives to be adopted as soon as possible. almost eight million women aged 20 to 64 are directly out of the labour market because they are carers, compared with half a million men. and those who care within the market do so in precarious conditions. there is an urgent need to close the care gap and i hope the care strategy will live up to that. now that the crisis has left us in a worse position, i also hope that the recovery measures, the digital and ecological transition, will take women into account. what i don't want is to be sitting here next year expecting exactly the same things.
madam president, mr wölken, i congratulate all the rapporteurs on this work, which has been a long one. it has taken years to bring to fruition what my colleague soledad cabezón had already started: bringing health technology assessment closer and more transparent at a time when it is much more needed. with all the disruptions and advancements we're experiencing from the pandemic, we know we're going to invest more in health technologies. we need not only to assess them properly and know that they work, but also to share and coordinate those efforts across the european union, and to do so transparently for everyone. we're on the road to personalized medicine, to new drugs that are tailored, almost individualized, to the patients who need them; to new data sources; to artificial intelligence. we must be aware that by sharing and making decisions more binding, we will move towards better health, more equal health for all europeans, and i congratulate the commission on this step.
madam president, mrs vestager, you know better than anyone that the european union has been trying for two decades to put a stop to the abuses of the tech companies and we really don't have the tools to do that. think, for example, ladies and gentlemen, of the situation of the merger of whatsapp and facebook: at the time europe did not have these tools, it had to let it pass, and now facebook decides to merge the data of the two platforms to sell its ads better, endangering the privacy of a billion users. the digital markets act comes to put a stop to these problems: protecting consumer privacy, improving competition, ending murderous mergers... and, most importantly, introducing interoperability. i think that's really the big breakthrough of the legislation: enabling interoperability between social platforms, enabling interoperability between messaging networks; i think that's what can really change this market for consumers. in short, ladies and gentlemen, mrs vestager, we have heard the call from many small and mediumsized enterprises that the european union needs to stop the abuses of the tech giants and we must now use these tools.
mr president, mrs vestager, commissioner breton, we are the first continent in the world to legislate and regulate the big platforms: no other country or continent has done this before and so we have to be at the forefront and be a continent that is a full benchmark in these big areas. the big platforms dominate much of our day to day and have changed the way we relate, the way we communicate and also the way and the consumption habits we have, especially after covid19. the fact that we use all these platforms does not mean that they are untouchable; the big platforms have to be regulated and the european union is at the forefront of that, but i want to mention two major milestones that are achieved with this new regulation: the protection of consumers, and the protection and equality of smes and start-ups. consumers will see the banning of personalised advertising to minors, a great achievement of the european socialists; greater transparency is also required from the big platforms on how our data is used. emerging companies and smes will be able to compete on equal terms in the market and be the main pillars of the economy of the future. we are at the forefront and also the fines will be a great reference in this new law.
mr president, commissioner, the figures are clear. last august, the youth unemployment rate was almost three times the overall unemployment rate in the european union. the social and economic crisis caused by the pandemic has disproportionately affected young people. and if we talk about young women or young people from the lgbtq community, young migrants or racialized youth, the indicators are even more devastating. the european year of youth must also allow us to focus on issues such as the flagrant abuse of unpaid traineeships. we have a great challenge: to overcome adultcentrism to put value on the plurality and complexity of young people's interests and concerns, which go beyond the labour market and also go through the climate crisis or economic policy. in the european year of youth, we are calling for their voices to be given a central role in shaping the future of europe.
mr president i welcome the decision to make 2022 the european year of youth. 'the future is in the hands of young people' we say, and now we must give them the opportunity to express what kind of future they want, what they think is important and valuable. this programme focuses on young people and provides an opportunity to involve them more in the public sphere, in the issues that affect their daily lives and their future. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. it is also important to adopt good examples and practices from each other, such as the personal income tax exemption for those under 25 years old, which the hungarian government will introduce from 2022, is such a good example that helps young people to thrive every day. the strength of europe lies in its young people, and therefore youth organisations and young people themselves must be involved in the implementation of the programme. i would like to see this programme achieve real results, improving access to quality education for people belonging to national minorities and people with disabilities, both within the eu and in the partner countries.
mr president, thank you, commissioner, for being here with us today. every generation only gets one chance in life to be young. today's young people are the future generation of europe, and they have been particularly hard hit by the pandemic. we can't afford to lose our future. it is time to dedicate a european year to european youth. but we need to make sure that this initiative puts in place policies and mechanisms that have an impact on young people beyond 2022. our group is satisfied with the text we have agreed today, but we will be very vigilant to ensure that this project serves to improve the participation of young people, especially in the conference on the future of europe, to promote and encourage youth work and paid internships, to pay attention to the most vulnerable young people and to serve as the basis for an integrated, effective and long-lasting youth strategy. we can't forget the most important thing: education. this european year must also reach schools. we need to take advantage of the european education area to improve the quality of education and educational infrastructure and really reach young europeans. we spend our lives saying that young people are the future, but now is the real time to prove it and bet on them.
mr president, i’m really happy that 2022 will be officially the european year of youth. but let us be clear, we should not make it a symbolic year, but a historic year. last year, 24% of children were at risk of poverty, and the last two years 18 000 minor refugees disappeared, and at least, colleagues listen carefully, one in five children is a victim of sexual violence. and moreover, during the covid—19 pandemic, a real shadow pandemic erupted with online sexual violence and violence within the family. for me, it’s clear: we have to realise three important things – roll out a child guarantee, protect the children from abuse and exploitation online and offline, and ensure that our migration pact safeguards children, because it’s our duty, colleagues. as gandhi said, you all know the wise man, ‘the true measure of any society can be found in how it treats its most vulnerable members’.
a uachtaráin, is am don chairdeas, don oideachas, do chaithimh aimsire, don taiscéalaíocht agus don fhorbairt í an óige. the chair is the seat of the government, the seat of the education, the seat of the aimsire, the seat of the taiscéalaíocht agus the seat of the development. le nach died two years ago, instead, having to leave their homes to stay at a country house to protect themselves and the rest of society, and to fend for themselves. we've all been there, but it's a dream and it's been a long time coming. now, as we face the future, we must all try to make sure that our lives are good for the next generation. i would like to welcome you to the european year in 2022! the commission will continue to monitor the situation in the member states, including the implementation of the health and safety at work programme, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the health and safety at work programme. the european year of the child will be organised by the initiatives already under way, including erasmus, which will be translated into english and made available on the internet. it is an important year in 2022 for the chomhdháil ar thodhchaí na heorpa chomh maith. you need to be careful with your child, and you need to be careful with yourself. i was a partner. i'll be there in a minute.
mr president, young people of europe, do you understand why this parliament is telling you that you are not entitled to what they had? you have no right to work and you must accept a mass and disorderly immigration that saturates welfare states; you have no right to your national identity and you must accept a multiculturalism that is violently changing the landscape of the cities your fathers walked through; you have no right to marry, to love and to love your children because man and woman are in a war without quarter that they have invented. don't listen to them, globalist resentment is the scourge of the century. they tell you that your freedom is to become slaves to agenda 2030, or to gambling, or to internet sex, or to climate activists, more concerned about intangibles than the forests that surrounded your cities yesterday; or to confront men and women in sterile gender debates. young people of europe, do not be afraid of your fears; work hard, study and work. freedom and justice are not given away in erasmus programmes or in the porn chat about sexual identity. you have every right to enjoy what your elders had: safety on the streets, united families, stable jobs and a homeland that defends you.
mr president, i thank commissioner mariya gabriel for being with us today and for negotiating with parliament the proposal for the european year of youth, and i thank the rapporteur, mrs sabine verheyen. the truth is, we wish we'd had the proposal a little sooner. in this way we should not have had to launch this fast-track procedure. we're all in on it. we want the european year of youth to be in 2022, but it might have been more convenient to have thought about it a little earlier. i just wanted to say this. and secondly, it is true that our group has also proposed that in the context of this european year of youth we should launch a major european festival of cultures, because we believe that festivals are a useful tool for bringing people together. obviously, we are still in a pandemic context, so we should take the necessary measures, and it could be around may 9, which is europe day, but it has perhaps been too associated with an institutional celebration. so we propose a more cultural and more popular celebration. and although this proposal has not been included as such in the report, we would like it to be considered.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you. thank you for your support, your concrete ideas, your call for action to be taken. i would like to thank once again the rapporteur, mrs sabine verheyen, all the fictitious rapporteurs, the coordinators and members of the committee on culture and education and the members of the european parliament, because it is true that in the record time between the announcement and the finalisation of the trilogue we have managed to send a strong signal to our young people. if i had to sum up the essence of your messages in one sentence, it would be 2022, european year of youth: an opportunity to include and act. the key phrase is 'opportunity for youth, by youth'. we need concrete progress on what really concerns our young people. and i would like to recall the topics of greatest concern to them that emerged from our public consultation: all the education and training opportunities, climate change, health, well-being and mental health. first, include. it is about including all young people, and i stress this: those living in capitals and cities, urban areas or rural areas, remote areas, the most vulnerable, those who are marginalised or in difficulty, but also those who have succeeded, who inspire others or who have mobilised. these are our talents and i agree that the regions have an important role to play because the challenges facing young people are often global challenges. but the solutions that can mobilize them, that can support them, that can encourage them also involve the involvement of those at the local level. then take action. your message was very clear: concrete initiatives, actions and deeds. i would like to thank you because this debate confirms my view that the european year of youth is an initiative that brings us together and unites us. it will also mark the 35th anniversary of the erasmus+ programme. now, for me, the european parliament will be an actor, an essential driving force this year. an event on europe day, in partnership with the european parliament, is obviously already in the exploratory phase. but i also heard your message that we should not just hold conferences and festivals here and there. let's do something concrete, something that is consistent and that brings benefits to our youth. i would like to conclude by saying that many of us already feel committed to this year. there are the approximately 5 000 young people who took part in our survey, the european actors in the youth sector, the member states which each appointed a national coordinator, the french and czech presidencies, the national agencies of the erasmus+ programmes and the european solidarity corps. now, my belief is that we share the same ambition to have a successful european youth year in 2022. and we are counting on you to do that because the young people we are dealing with would like to see us engaged in an innovative approach which the european project really needs. thank you for your active contribution and thank you again for your support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday, 14 december 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the european union needs the vision of young people to shape a more democratic and stable future. their ideas, enthusiasm, involvement and dedication can make a defining contribution to the political and social architecture of europe of tomorrow. moreover, it is imperative that young people participate in electoral processes and political life. only in this way can we have a functioning democracy, where human rights and the rule of law are respected and no one is left behind. the covid pandemic has left a deep mark on the lives of young people, and 2022 must be the culmination of their efforts to overcome the disadvantages they have faced during this difficult period. youth unemployment has become an even more worrying issue because of the pandemic. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the european year of youth has once again demonstrated that the young generation is a priority for the eu, so that they become active and engaged citizens, inspired by a sense of european belonging, offering the possibility to emerge collectively stronger from the pandemic and opening up opportunities and perspectives.
in writing. the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic has disproportionately affected young people. whether it's access to education, integration into the labour market or mental health, it's young people who have suffered the most in this period. the european youth year is thus a great opportunity to focus on solving some of the problems that young people are constantly facing. the mental health of young people is a particular concern. the pandemic has made a situation that was already dire worse. the european union therefore needs a plan for managing mental health problems, especially among young people. civic participation of young people should be particularly encouraged. civics offers significant benefits, both to society and to the individual, in particular by reducing the risk of suffering from mental health deficiencies. the european year of youth should also encourage us to reflect on the situation of young people in rural areas. the increased support for young farmers in the new cap is welcome, but young people need support beyond the agricultural sector, through actions that give them access to social and community services.
ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to have the president of ghana, a country with which we have many relations and with which we want to develop cooperation, here in our plenary today. it is a very important signal of the european union's attention to an important african country. i would like to give the floor to the president for his speech.
president of ghana. – mr president, members of the european parliament, excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, i thank david maria sassoli, president of the european parliament, for the honour of the invitation to deliver this address on developments in ghana and africa, and our country’s priorities in the post-covid era. the ghanaian people and their government express to this house, and to the european union, their appreciation of the warm hospitality extended to their president and his delegation in luxembourg, brussels and here, in strasbourg, and their best wishes for the continued success of the european union. we, in ghana and in africa, have followed the eu story keenly, and we are hopeful that sooner, rather than later, we will be able to replicate the successes you have chalked over the years. the peoples of europe and africa have been dealing with each other from the beginnings of time. our histories are intrinsically linked, there are tales told that stretch the imagination, there are incontestable physical proofs of the relationship dotted around both continents, there are painful and indelible memories, and there are the ones that bring smiles. at its narrowest point, only 15 kilometres separate europe and africa in the strait of gibraltar. partially due to their close proximity, relations between the two continents have always been intertwined. throughout history, the prosperity, stability, and security of one region has directly affected the other. the two continents have had the most tumultuous relationship. there has been conquest, there has been occupation, there have been attempts at assimilation, there has been exploitation and there has been resentment. we have influenced each other’s culture, in terms of language, music, food and clothes, but one would hesitate to say that the africans and europeans can really claim to know each other. it was europe, our closest neighbour, after all, that gave us the notorious sobriquet of the dark continent. this may be an appropriate occasion to say that we, in africa, have not always regarded europeans and europe as the most straightforward people we have known. we have many synonyms for europeans, some of which are not the most complimentary. there is little doubt, however, that europe has had the most dominant external influence on africa through language, religion and governance systems. anyone who follows the conversations and debates in the eu would list three main subjects that dominate discussions: the covid-19 pandemic, border and immigration control, and environment and climate change. the covid-19 pandemic has posed the greatest test to humanity in these initial decades of the 21st century. if you were sitting in west africa, as we in ghana were at the beginning of 2020, and looking forward to a year that promised record levels of economic growth, you would understand the severity of the blow that we have been dealt by the pandemic. it gives us no respite that other countries, with much stronger and bigger economies, have been struggling with the effect of the lockdowns and economic slowdown caused by the pandemic. take your minds back, if you will, to the predictions in march and april last year; the experts were united that africa was going to be hit dramatically, and, because of her relatively weak public health systems, her streets would be littered with dead bodies, when the virus reached the continent. mercifully, and by the grace of god, the predictions have not come to pass, and, so far, africa has not witnessed the dire scenes that we feared. watching the world from accra, it appeared to us as though the experts, and for experts, you might read ‘europeans’, which is one of our synonyms for experts, were disappointed that africans were not dying as had been predicted. we were not given credit for quickly following the science as recommended, when many leaders in europe were still fighting ideological battles, and seeking to lay blame on the source of the virus, rather than uniting to fight it. at every stage, we in africa have been dismayed to discover that every attempt was being made to make covid-19 also an african disease. thus, the narrative emerged that it was not really that africans were not dying from the pandemic, we had to be covering up the true level of infections. it has been a sad experience for us, in africa, to be caught up in the vicious vaccine politics that engulfed the world, once the vaccines were ready for the market. we remain grateful for the donations of vaccines through platforms such as covax, which was good enough to send its very first consignment, anywhere in the world, to ghana. the unsavoury politics of vaccine nationalism we are witnessing could, however, potentially derail global efforts made at containing the pandemic. till date, less than 10% of africa has been vaccinated, in comparison to the eu, for example, which, as at august, had vaccinated seventy percent 70% of its population. with countries on the continent still not being able to have sufficient access to vaccines in the requisite numbers, we, like the world health organization, are worried that the phenomenon of hoarding vaccines will worsen even further, as countries begin to administer booster shots in response to the threat posed by the omicron variant of the virus. let me use this occasion to reiterate the strong opposition of the economic community of west african states (ecowas), of whose authority i have the privilege to be current chair, to the decision taken by countries, including those in the eu, to single out african countries for the imposition of travel bans. omicron has been discovered in over 40 countries, with reports indicating that this variant was present in the netherlands way before it was discovered in south africa. the world should be grateful to the south african scientists, whose knowledge and expertise in genomic sequencing enabled them to identify the new variant. plaudits, not the condemnation of their peoples, should have been their portion. why is there not a travel ban imposed on the netherlands, but against south africa, one might ask? i am a firm believer in the statement that ‘no one is safe until everyone is safe.’ let us help make vaccines available to all parts of the world, encourage our citizens to take the jab, and we would win the fight against covid faster and together. we have all learnt some very painful lessons from this pandemic. we, in africa, need to build up our health delivery systems to enable us to withstand future crises, and we are doing so. in ghana, we have launched what we call agenda 111, which seeks to build district hospitals in each district of ghana where there is none, so that ordinary people can have ready access to medical care. we have decided to set up a national vaccine institute, which will supervise the domestic production of vaccines across several sectors, including anti-covid-19 ones, led by the private sector and the business community. we need to be self-reliant, and shed the image of beggars living on charity, aid and handouts, and make better and more intelligent use of our abundant natural resources, in order to pull ourselves out of poverty into prosperity. these are not new aspirations; they have simply been reinforced by the lessons of the pandemic. mr president, from afar, and even after the trauma of brexit, we find most admirable the european project of political and economic integration that brings together 27 nations in the eu. the advantages of a common market of 450 million people and the power behind a parliament that represents such a group, are evident. it shows when a disunited africa tries to negotiate a trade deal with the eu. it is a battle of unequals that we can never win. it shows when the eu is able to impose sanctions on individual african countries, and the rest can only look on in impotent rage. it shows when a bomb in kampala leads to a warning for all travel to east and central africa, and we are expected to accept that a terrorist attack in belgium has no effect on france or the netherlands or luxembourg. it is quite likely that, for many europeans today, the image that is raised in their minds at the mention of africa and africans is the problem of border and immigration control in the eu. never mind that for hundreds of years, the traffic might have been from europe into africa, today the reality is of desperate africans being washed onto the coast of lampedusa. we, in ghana, and, indeed, in africa, consider this phenomenon more of a problem for us than for europe. it is a reflection of our failure that conditions in our countries should be such that a young person would think of subjecting himself or herself to the dangers and indignities of the perilous journeys to get to europe. we, in africa, the governments and the peoples, owe it to ourselves, to our young people, in particular, to make sure that nobody has to undertake such journeys. there is a lot we have to do to develop our countries, and improve the conditions to make them attractive as places to stay and not flee, but maybe there is something you in the eu might also do to contribute to finding a solution to the problem. i would like to suggest that a fairer trading system between europe and africa, that would lead to a faster development rate in africa, might offer a less painful route than any aid. that will stimulate growth in africa, and lead to the creation of more jobs. whatever money that europe might lose from a change in the present arrangement will not come anywhere near what europe currently spends to keep out unwanted, would-be immigrants. migration, however, is only one issue of importance between europe and africa. trade, energy, climate change, the illicit outflows of money from africa to europe, human and drug trafficking, transnational cybercrimes, democratic governance, and human rights, are among the joint concerns for the two continents bound together by history, culture, and geography. a very important plank for our mutual prosperity would be the eu’s strong support to the african continental free trade area (afcfta). the afcfta links 54 markets, covering 1.2 billion people, with a combined gdp of usd 3 trillion into a single market. it is the world’s largest free trade area outside of the world trade organization (wto) itself. by 2050, it will cover an estimated 2.5 billion people, and have over a quarter of the world’s working age population. imagine the business and investment opportunities offered by the infrastructure required to link these markets more effectively. and imagine the business opportunities that this huge market would offer for manufacturing and services firms from european countries that could establish production facilities in africa to serve the african markets. and with the accelerated growth that would result from all of these, the market opportunities for exporters from european countries could be truly amazing! a well developed and prosperous africa would be good, not just for us in africa, but would benefit europe as well. history has taught us that a rich trading partner, operating within a fair trading system, brings prosperity to both sides, far more than the exploitation of a poor partner. as it becomes clearer to all of us, the problems that face the world are more likely to be quickly resolved when we are all prosperous, than when half the world is immersed in poverty. the problems of the environment, and climate change, in particular, can only be properly addressed when we are able to deal with poverty. a hungry, homeless, jobless person has not got much at stake in the battle we want to fight for the survival of the planet. it is also not likely that the underdeveloped part of the world will want to serve as the forest reserve or museum to save the planet for the developed, prosperous world. i happen to believe that no one needs to be poor for others to be rich. we are fully committed to the necessity to act to save the planet from climate degradation. indeed, our continent, for instance the example of lake chad, has been the hardest hit from the adverse effects of climate change. we believe, however, that asking africa to abandon, forthwith, the exploitation of her abundant natural resources, is to condemn africa to perpetual poverty. the developed world is responsible for 76% of global carbon emissions, whilst africa is responsible for 4%. there is, therefore, the obvious need for a balance between the social, economic and environmental imperatives of climate action, if equitable global development is to be achieved. there is enough on our planet to enable all of us to be prosperous in a sustainable world. we, in ghana, continue to benefit from our partnership with the eu on the sustainable development of our cocoa industry, and the implementation of the green ghana project, which seeks to plant, in ghana, 10 million trees every year. mr president, our two continents do not seem to be able to do without one another. so, what can we do to bring about a closer relationship that deals with the centuries of distrust? taking a look through the paperwork, it is obvious that it is not for want of effort that there is not a formal document that spells out relations between au and eu. the joint au-eu strategy document, for example, has gone through a lot of work on both sides, and seems to have simply gone into hibernation. it is worth recalling that it was set up as a move from a donor-recipient relationship, to one of equals. however, the intended paradigm shift, to alter fundamentally european and african relations, has not really taken place, and it is obvious that both sides need to come back to the table, and give the document a new breath of fresh air to bring it back to life. we would, in the process, identify the sticky points that have been holding an agreement back. just as attachment to democratic values is a basic prerequisite for membership of the european union, so is commitment to democratic principles a necessary condition for membership of the african union. the convergence of views on democratic governance enables a more focused discussion whenever there appears to be divergence or disagreements on governance on either side. it provides a historic opportunity to reinforce the positive relations between our two continents, which the joint au-eu strategy should stress. ghana, for her part, is proudly a nation governed by the principles of democratic accountability, respect for individual liberties and human rights, and the rule of law, an aspiring modern nation. she is acknowledged as a beacon of democracy and stability in africa, which has witnessed eight general elections, five presidential transitions, and three peaceful transfers of power from one party to another through the ballot box, in the 28-year period of the 4th republic. long may the 4th republic endure. at the core of the strategy is the understanding that relations between the two continents must be premised on equal participation and representation. for the first time, this strategy put both partners on an equal footing, and raised expectations that members of the african union would not just be the ‘recipients’ of pre-packaged assistance from the european union, but would sit side-by-side with the eu at the decision-making table. if this should materialise, it will spell a true transformation of relations between our two peoples, and it will be a pity if we do not seize the opportunity to chart such a new path. in trying to chart this new path, we cannot, however, underestimate the enormity of the history we have to overcome. our elders, in ghana, say that if you do not know where you are coming from, you are not likely to know where you want to go to either. trade relations between africa and europe have evolved through history, under the influence of strategies and policies that were initially imposed on africa by europe, then developed for africa by europe, and are now being made in collaboration with africa. these relations take their form and content from mechanisms originally established during colonisation that were maintained until independence. it is clear that a new paradigm has to be defined, which will be dependent on the structural transformation of african economies from raw material producing and exporting economies, to value-adding, industrialising economies. this will enable africans to trade at the high end of the global value chain, dealing in products we make and grow. out of this, a robust trading system between europe and africa will be created, which will generate mutual prosperity for the peoples of the two continents. it is my personal expectation and hope that the february au-eu summit will address concrete matters, such as focusing the support of the eu for the au on growth-enhancing interventions, especially on infrastructure and skills development; simplifying eu processes, particularly for infrastructure projects; establishing a joint au-eu technical committee to design procedures for processing infrastructural projects in africa, including for public-private projects; defining effective means to stop the illicit flows of substantial monies from africa to europe; and building strategic partnerships hinged on africa’s growth and transformation. this will be a win-win for african countries and european countries. the maintenance of peace and security, mr president, remains a critical challenge in africa. although the magnitude of the challenge varies from state to state, countries on the continent are generally grappling with extraordinary sources of threats that undermine both state and human security. in the sahel region of west africa, for example, the terrorist and jihadist menace and presence, which has provoked so much violence and instability in the area, are directly linked to the disintegration of libya. we believe that the sooner libya can be returned to normalcy, the better it will be for the stability of west africa, and europe has a big role to play in that, having regard to europe’s own role in libya’s process of disintegration. sustained, concerted efforts to support the present peace efforts in libya, and the prospective elections there, should be major items on the eu’s foreign policy agenda. on behalf of the government and people of ghana, i want to thank members of the european union for the support offered to ghana’s recent successful candidature for a non-permanent seat in the united nations security council for the years 2022-2023. ghana received the highest number of votes on the day, which could not have been possible without the active support of the eu. one of ghana’s major considerations will be to make sure that africa’s voice is heard loud and clear in the deliberations of the security council, both on matters affecting the continent and on global issues. an important position that ghana will advance on the council is that, having regard to the conflicts on the continent, now is not the time for the security council to reduce its peacekeeping mandates on the african continent. on the contrary, it should look to increasing them. the international community must not be caught in a ‘penny wise, pound foolish’ scenario. mr president, i dare not come to this parliament and omit to talk about one reality that could serve us both in trying to bring the peoples of africa and europe together for our common good. there does exist in europe a sizeable community of the african diaspora. these are people who have left africa physically, and are living in the various countries of europe, but who retain strong emotional links with the continent. they often have local content knowledge that is useful to ease difficulties if their expertise is brought in quickly. until recently, diaspora groups and organisations have operated in an informal and exclusive manner. now, thanks to inexpensive transportation and rapid communication, they are able to exert far greater influence on their homelands than ever before. this advantage enables diaspora communities to build up vast transnational networks linking globalisation to the local conditions of their respective countries of origin. they are a ready source of expertise that we can all use to speed up this conversation between africa and europe. there is a matter of national importance that i would put before this parliament. in june 2021 the financial action task force (fatf) plenary approved, after requisite investigation, the removal of ghana from the list of jurisdictions subject to enhanced supervision, i.e. the so-called grey list. eu procedures indicate that, within 30 days of such a finding by fatf, the formal processes for the delisting of the affected countries, should be completed. this requires a delegated act proposed by the commission to the parliament for its approval. six months later, this has not happened in the case of ghana. i would appeal to the honourable members of this parliament to see to it that the formal process for the delisting of ghana from the ‘grey list’ be completed as soon as possible. mr president, i have tried to have a frank and unadorned conversation with this famous house. i believe you have invited me precisely for that purpose, and i hope that several of the observations i have made will provide fodder for us at the forthcoming au-eu summit in brussels, in february next year, which must succeed, and put europe-africa relations on a higher pedestal. ours is a long, sometimes tortuous journey, there is a lot of heartache and joy behind the relationship, there has to be, there are not many relationships in this world that have a longer tenure. it is up to us, in this generation, to move on from the pain of our ancestors and the privileges of your ancestors, and create a happier and mutually respectful relationship between africa and europe. the leaps of faith on both sides will be difficult, but eminently doable. the positive aspects of the relationship can be a tremendous force for good in the world. together, we can and we should make it. i thank you for your attention.
we thank the president for his words, for his message and for the commitments which naturally await the european union and ghana and many african countries. thank you for coming. it was a real honor to hear you.
before i open today's vote, i would like to give the floor to mr caspary, who, in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, would like to speak on the referral back of his report on the instrument on international procurement for interinstitutional negotiations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as rapporteur for the international procurement instrument, i would like to ask that after the vote on the amendments from the committee, we refer the dossier back to committee and start the trilogue talks. i was very concerned that we would not only give the committee the mandate to deal with the trilogue, but that we would also give all members of this house the opportunity to vote on the dossier. that is what is going to happen now, and i would be grateful if we could then start the trilogue negotiations.
this request will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission proposal. we now come to today's vote. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the vote will take place from 12.30 to 13.45. the same voting procedure as in the previous round of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 1.45 p.m. the results of the votes will be announced at 7 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 12.42 p.m.)
the competent authorities in sweden have informed the president of the election of mr ilan de basso as a member of the european parliament with effect from 13 december 2021. mr ilan de basso is hereby appointed to replace mr johan danielsson. i welcome this new member and remind him that he now has full rights to participate in the meetings of parliament and its institutions under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure.
the ecr group has sent the president a decision on the change of appointments in a committee. this decision shall be published in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in nicaragua (2021/3000 (rsp)). i would remind members that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this session and that no blue cards are accepted. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, i am very happy to have this opportunity to address the plenary of the european parliament and to use this as a chambre de résonance all over the world to talk about an issue like the situation in nicaragua. thank you for putting that on the agenda, for giving me the opportunity to comment with you not only the facts, but also the feeling about the situation there. talking about nicaragua, being a spaniard, and nicaragua being spanish-speaking, allow me to speak in spanish. señor presidente, hace muchos años el hoy presidente de nicaragua, daniel ortega, representó para muchos la fuerza de la libertad de un pueblo que derribó una dictadura, y se ganó para muchos la admiración y pasó a ser la imagen de cómo un pueblo puede conseguir librarse de un tirano, anastasio somoza, con su afán por convertir a nicaragua en un país libre, próspero y justo; y, también, obtuvo nuestra simpatía, de mi generación, cuando tuvo que luchar contra la llamada «la contra», que constituía, por cierto, una clara injerencia de los estados unidos de entonces para derribar al régimen democrático que había surgido de la lucha contra somoza: no solo tuvo que luchar contra somoza; tuvo, después, que luchar contra los llamados «contra» armados y organizados —digamos las cosas como son— en buena medida por los estados unidos. pero de eso hace ya mucho tiempo: ahora daniel ortega se ha convertido en la caricatura del dictador caribeño, se ha convertido en el espejo del dictador contra el que él luchó entonces. y lo digo dejando de lado la contención que se supone que tiene que formar parte de la actividad diplomática porque daniel ortega se ha expresado contra la unión europea y personalmente contra su alto representante en los términos más violentos que uno pueda imaginar. cada vez que lo hemos criticado, señalando objetivamente de qué forma se comportaban él y su gobierno, hemos recibido una respuesta tan absolutamente contraria a las normas internacionales de buena conducta que creo que puedo decir, sin ninguna clase de límite, que ha desatado la violencia y la represión contra su pueblo. tanto él como la vicepresidenta murillo —que ocurre que es su esposa— han acaparado ilegítimamente el poder en nicaragua para promover sus intereses personales y los de una estrecha nomenclatura. ¡qué tristeza! qué tristeza ver cómo ha acabado el que una vez luchó por la libertad de su pueblo y se ha convertido hoy en un dictador como el que era anastasio somoza. en la nicaragua actual, todos los ámbitos del poder se han armado contra el pueblo. el poder ejecutivo emplea las fuerzas armadas, la policía y la parapolicía, para propagar una muy violenta represión —siendo yo todavía ministro de asuntos exteriores de españa, en 2019, esa violenta represión provocó más de doscientos muertos; más de doscientos civiles asesinados en las calles, doscientos—; el poder legislativo aprueba leyes draconianas para eliminar a la disidencia; el poder judicial ha encerrado como presos a aquellos que el régimen considera como opositores, con un total desprecio de las garantías procesales. el pasado 7 de noviembre se celebraron elecciones en las que, claro, ortega obtuvo la victoria después de haber previamente detenido y encerrado en la cárcel a cualquier opositor creíble. la respuesta de los nicaragüenses fue simplemente no acudir a votar a pesar de una intensa presión ejercida por el régimen para que lo hicieran. tras las elecciones, ortega arremetió contra la unión europea y contra algunos países, en particular, muy implicados en el problema de nicaragua, como es el país que conozco mejor, el mío, españa, con referencias a hitler y al nazismo, cruzó una línea de decencia que nunca debería atravesarse y utilizó términos profundamente insultantes para describir a los presos políticos, deshumanizándolos completamente. esta es la situación. ¿qué hemos hecho? pues hemos impuesto sanciones dirigidas contra catorce personas implicadas en esos abusos; continuamos trabajando con nuestros socios internacionales para mantener la presión necesaria sobre el régimen nicaragüense —lo continuaremos haciendo— llamando a la liberación de los presos políticos, el retorno al país de los organismos internacionales de derechos humanos, la convocatoria de un diálogo genuino y reformas que permitan salir de la oscura noche en la que está encerrado el pueblo de nicaragua. seguiremos apoyándolo; para ello, sin embargo, tenemos que mantener abiertos canales de comunicación: seguimos teniendo una delegación de la unión europea en nicaragua, como sigue habiendo embajadas de los estados miembros, porque eso nos ayuda a trabajar en beneficio de los nicaragüenses, especialmente los grupos más vulnerables, que han soportado tremendas dificultades. de esto es de lo que yo tengo el honor de informar a este parlamento para que también ustedes, con su apoyo político, contribuyan a hacer frente a la situación de nicaragua.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr high representative, i speak for almost the entire house when i say, loudly and firmly, that the european parliament strongly condemns the installation of authoritarianism in nicaragua at the hands of dictator daniel ortega and his wife rosario murillo. this institution will never be an accomplice to the electoral-style pantomime that took place on 7 november. it therefore does not recognise the results of the process and does not, therefore, recognise the authorities emanating from it. we must remind the dictator that this farce not only did not comply with the principles of freedom, transparency and democracy which should characterize electoral processes with guarantees, but was also not recognized by the population, resulting in almost 85% abstention at the polls. ortega is annoyed with the international community when he is reminded of his obligations given the continuing human rights violations that occur in his country and when he is demanded to respect the treaties to which nicaragua is a signatory. mr. high representative, i take your word for it. consider all the instruments at the disposal of the european union to take additional measures against the nicaraguan regime. perhaps including the activation of the democratic clause of the european union's agreement with central america in respect of nicaragua, of course. but finally, i propose, once and for all, to specifically sanction daniel ortega, because he is the one most responsible for the situation in his country.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr borrell, we already know the formal reasons for this resolution, but i want to get to the real ones: the promoters of this resolution are annoyed that ortega has won the elections and that nicaragua continues to have a government at the service of the people and not at the service of the multinationals; they are annoyed by his support for a process of regional integration antagonistic to the objectives of the united states; they are annoyed that he has won for the fourth time in a row facing five opposition candidates and that in each election he has obtained more supports 75%, with a participation of more than 65% in these last elections, and they are annoyed that this support is not the fruit of fear. in nicaragua, people have not voted threatened by the são paulo forum or by the castro chavista dictatorships, but by data like this: nicaragua ranks fifth in the world in gender equality this year; since ortega came to power, general poverty has been reduced by almost half, and extreme poverty by more than half; investment in free education at all levels has grown by 381%; investment in free and quality healthcare has increased by 476%... and these are not data from the são paulo forum or the sandinista front, they are from people as unsuspecting as the imf, the world bank or the united nations. ladies and gentlemen, the people who have brought this resolution forward have just been displeased in peru, honduras and nicaragua, and it is possible that they will soon be displeased in chile, colombia and brazil. i only suggest one thing: learn to accept the decisions of the people even when you do not like them.
mr president, mr high representative, since taking office in 2007, president ortega has basically dismantled all the controls that existed in nicaragua over presidential power. it was, little by little, turning nicaragua into a bloody dictatorship, as was essentially clear after the social protests of 2018 in which there were imprisonments, mistreatment, exile, forced disappearances and, of course, deaths. at this moment we know that, following the preparation of the electoral act, journalists, rural and environmental activists, indigenous activists and students, but also opposition leaders and, in particular, presidential candidates or pre-candidates, have been arrested without guilt. there has been systematic detention, there is harassment and persecution, there is regular intimidation in nicaraguan political and civic life. the sanctions regime that began to be applied from october 2019 and that now, more recently, has been extended from 6 to 14 people including vice president rosario murillo, the truth is that it remains not enough to make ortega leave power and open a democratic process of reconciliation of nicaragua with its destiny. the time of somoza is long gone, but the truth is that ortega is still an imitator of that great dictator who said he would fight. all solidarity with the people of nicaragua.
mr president, mr high representative, i can only share your words about the desperate situation we are witnessing today in nicaragua. this ortega regime, like all dictatorships, is obviously targeting the opposition, by imprisoning the seven potential opposition figures, press freedom, and also human rights defenders in general. of course, we support your approach to sanctions, and even to tightening the sanctions that have already been imposed. but we see that the ortega regime is not responding to these sanctions. and the question i ask with perhaps also a touch of disappointment is, why can't we use the tools that we have to put pressure on a regime, like the association agreement that we have today with central america? this association agreement, my country, belgium, has not ratified it. simply because at that time, already in 2013, we felt that it did not give enough capacity to support the human rights issue. it has been implemented for the commercial part only, despite the fact that it has not been ratified. and today, the question is how this trade agreement has been able to support democracy in central america, but more specifically in nicaragua. and how can this trade agreement be suspended in the case of a regime like this, which has no respect for the values we signed up to? i would remind you that the association agreement is designed to develop a privileged political partnership based on values and principles, and in particular democracy. i think we're a long way from that.
mr president, mr high representative, we are here again to discuss the situation in nicaragua. what is clear is that daniel ortega is a dictator and nicaragua is under a dictatorship. the fraudulent elections last month only confirmed this fact. it didn't take a crystal ball to know the outcome of these elections in advance. almost all of the opponents are in prison or have been forced into exile. thousands of nicaraguans have fled. the regime controls the country with violence, censorship and cruelty. the european union has been very clear on its position on human rights in nicaragua, but it is time to send a clear political message. we will not make deals with dictatorships. we have to suspend the nicaraguan agreement.
mr president, the situation in nicaragua is unsustainable: the continuing authoritarian drift is a direct attack on human rights, democracy and all the values we defend in this house. what we have seen in the last fraudulent elections in the country is a new confirmation of something we have been denouncing for a long time: the ortega-murillos are dynamiting nicaraguan democracy from within, from power, promoting a harsh repression that undermines freedoms; they intend to completely extinguish them and turn nicaragua, sadly, into an autocratic, communist, personalist and family regime. we cannot remain passive in the face of the communist challenge that threatens many latin american countries, we must react and stand firmly alongside the true democratic leaders of the region and civil society that stands firm in the face of the far-left dictatorship; if we do not do this, more than one state will follow the path of nicaragua, venezuela or cuba. by the way, contrast the words against ortega with your position in relation to maduro, mr. borrell. europe must unequivocally and unreservedly support the inclusion in this resolution on the situation in nicaragua of measures condemning the regime and the continuing violation of human rights and ensure that not a penny of the european union ends up in the hands of this authoritarian dictatorship, contrary to the principles with which we identify ourselves. the european union must take decisive action: i urge, as we have done on other occasions, the activation of the democratic clause in the association agreement and the imposition of sanctions against all those who violate human rights in nicaragua.
mr president, mr high representative, we all know that the elections of 7 november in nicaragua were a farce, a pantomime designed to humiliate the democratic opposition and the people of nicaragua. but that day the opposition was noted with a silence that resounded throughout the country. the dictatorship of ortega, murillo and theirs are an elite that parasitizes the institutions of a country that once raised its fist and stood up to put an end to a decrepit dictatorship. that is why i do not and will never lose hope that nicaragua will rise again. and i don't lose it because it is the citizens of the country who are the first to be convinced that sooner or later they will achieve it. they're going to restore democracy, but peacefully. that is why we in europe must never lose hope. let's help make that large democratic majority of the population visible. let us remain in the country to help them and let us also help all the exiles, because all of them are indispensable to correct the situation through truly free and fair elections; to free political prisoners, to get parties, international organizations and ngos to cooperate again in the country. to achieve change, we count on all nicaraguan democrats and continue working to achieve democracy in the country.
mr president, mr borrell, my worst fears - which i have been warning about in this house for more than two years - have been realized: ortega has succeeded in plunging nicaragua into a repression not seen since the worst days of somoza, but now the question is how we help the nicaraguans to regain democracy, and the answer is also very simple: simply by giving back to them all that ortega has stolen from them, which is nothing more than, among many other things, the right to express themselves freely in transparent and fair elections, and to achieve this we cannot continue to make the same mistakes. ortega is a criminal and must be treated as such, and we must give ortega what hurts him most, which is nothing more than his pocket, his pocket and the pockets of all his hard-headed people who are also here in europe. let us also sanction ortega once and for all, as i have been calling for for almost two years, but let us also focus on the international financing of the regime: we must freeze the disbursements that reach the regime until we are sure that democracy has already returned to nicaragua. ladies and gentlemen, ortega must know that we will not waver in our resolve to confront one of the worst dictatorships in the world.
mr president, mr borrell, ortega seems to have followed all the steps in the manual to dismantle a democracy and impose a dictatorship. first, pretending to keep up appearances, he began to buy loyalties and to subsidize the hungry stomachs of the most disadvantaged. when he saw that the dignity of the nicaraguan people was not for sale, the tyrant turned to threats and resorted to violence. following the teachings of machiavelli, ortega preferred to be feared rather than loved. he has promoted attacks on journalists and media outlets. he imposed police brutality, authorized torture of numerous opponents and even ordered the murder of activists. despite the oppression, there were still nicaraguan political leaders who decided to step forward and run for office. but faced with the mere possibility that an alternative would emerge, ortega did not hesitate to imprison them all, without worrying about maintaining a minimal façade of democracy. ortega has long since removed the mask of a democrat. every step he has taken has further stifled the freedoms of nicaraguans until they are completely extinguished. for all the elections that ortega pretends to hold, nothing can hide the fact that nicaragua has become an absolute dictatorship. nothing can hide the economic and humanitarian collapse to which it has condemned the nicaraguans. the european union and the member states cannot continue to allow this. it is time to use all means at our disposal to combat ortega's oppression.
mr president, commissioner lenarčič, as you well know, the pandemic has paralysed almost everything, except climate change and its effects, which are causing terrible humanitarian crises in the poorest countries - many of them considered middle-income countries, but we must continue to work with them. in this report, we highlight cooperation between humanitarian action, development, disaster risk reduction and climate actors to reduce displacement. mr neuser, thank you very much, you did a great job in calling, particularly in this report, for the consolidation of the triple link between humanitarian action, development and peace, because crises are becoming more and more long-lasting and more intense. we do not yet have a disability strategy in international cooperation and humanitarian action; therefore it is important that this report explicitly includes persons with disabilities, especially women with disabilities, who are the most vulnerable and with the most specific needs, such as the creation of a coordination mechanism to develop an approach to international humanitarian law. it is clear that we need more funding and we cannot rely on a limited number of donors: that is why we in this parliament will help to ensure that it has more resources.
mr. president, in the 2015 sustainable development goals, we set a target of ending world hunger by the year 2030. and what do we find in 2021? one hundred and thirty-five million people suffer from severe hunger, and malnutrition kills three million children under five years of age each year. what these numbers hide is the realities of millions of people who suffer not only from malnutrition, but also inequality from lack of agricultural justice, from the plundering of resources, from conflict, forced displacement and violence. malnutrition and malnutrition are global threats on the scale of the climate crisis and the pandemic, and our response must treat them as such. the european union's announcement of €2.8 billion is welcome, but it will not help to eradicate hunger if the main recommendation of the united nations is not followed, which is to radically change our extractivist model of production and consumption: we need a comprehensive approach that tackles the causes and ends hunger. forward, cooperation or barbarism?
mr president, commissioner, we are not meeting agenda 2030 or the great summits we have talked about, let alone objective 2. malnutrition is starving millions of children to death, while in some rich countries we spend more money on diets and weight-loss treatments. that is the contradiction to which this parliament cannot remain indifferent. it is good that the last summit was led by some of the most affected countries, such as bangladesh or indonesia. it may be a good start, but we will only find solutions to it with strong partnerships. the report by the committee on development will put the issue on the agenda and i would like to focus on the financing of nutrition programmes in middle-income countries. we know that half the world's hungry people are concentrated there. the most pronounced peak is in latin america and the caribbean, with popular pots in cities in wealthy countries marked by inequality. one solution could be to move towards a profound transformation of agri-food systems, with one condition: political will and innovation that consider the empowerment of women and the most vulnerable as part of the solution. we are the largest global funder of hunger relief, but we need to listen more to international organizations and to the countries that suffer the most.
mr president, much has been said in recent years about the need to move towards a sustainable and inclusive transition in europe, but we continue to see multinationals relocating and deindustrialising, impoverishing entire regions after having enjoyed years of public support: this is not just sustainability. to fight inequalities and tackle an unfair economic model, we must ensure greater participation of workers in their organisations and strengthen democracy at work: this will ensure profitable enterprises and a return on investment and public support in the form of higher wages and better working conditions. the report is therefore key to ensuring that workers' rights are respected in restructuring processes, to combating instability in the labour market and to ending existing cases of exploitation and abuse. we need a legislative framework on information, consultation and participation in the workplace that strengthens social dialogue and brings us closer to the target of up to 90% collective bargaining coverage by 2030; that guarantees worker participation in boards of directors while respecting parity; and that ensures that the use of artificial intelligence in the workplace is done in a way that is agreed with trade unions and ensures that the benefits of productivity gains are shared fairly. to achieve truly sustainable development and social progress, social actors, political parties and civil society must be united and defend solidarity at work: guaranteeing the right of employees to information and consultation, giving them a voice, is essential to building an equitable, egalitarian and fair economic model. the rights of workers to organise, to be represented, to freedom of assembly and association and to call collectively for reforms in their workplaces are fundamental aspects of the european project and basic principles of a social model which we must defend and strengthen now and in the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, first, i want to thank the rapporteur for this very important report because it really goes to the core of the future of our economy. the debate that our economy – which we like to call the social market economy – should also have a strong dimension of democratisation, i think many, many speakers have shared this view. now, i have already referred to the different instruments that exist at the european level. i think this is very important to guarantee that these instruments function, that they are applied. therefore, a proper transposition of eu rules needs to be absolutely ensured. this also applies to the functioning of workers’ councils and we have seen in the last months, especially in the context of restructuring, that they have not always been as involved as they should have been. for the commission, it is very important now to make sure that what exists is applied – proper application of the existing rules. but that’s not only for the commission, it is also member states who have to make sure that the eu rules – which have been transposed in national law – are applied, and they have to guarantee an effective and efficient enforcement of the different procedures. if this does not happen, then the commission has to step in where it has evidence that the national rules of a particular member state do not comply with eu rules or do not allow the rules to be effectively enforced and i have listened to some comments, especially on workers’ councils. we very much like to talk about to the advantage of an integrated internal market. this is one of europe’s strengths: an integrated european internal market and also the free movement of workers and of capital. if this is the case, we should not just accept fragmentation in the field of social rights, of workers’ rights, of rights at the workplace, but also at the level of enterprises. this kind of fragmentation is also some kind of a distortion; when companies can choose where they can least involve workers. this should not be the case in an integrated european economy. therefore, i think we have to have democracy at work in our focus and we have to reflect what has to be improved, what has to be added. i think it was mentioned by several speakers that in those systems where there is a real involvement of workers, where there is a real social dialogue at the level of companies, well, in general terms, these companies work better, better respect social rights, and normally have better levels of collective bargaining. i think your report opens this debate and i think this parliament wants this debate. so we have to have it. i also repeat what i said in my in my first intervention: it is unacceptable that existing rights in member states are diluted or abandoned when companies suddenly change the strategy or the model or the legal form. this is not the purpose of european legal forms. this was, at least i suppose, never the intention of that. this is an issue where once you have rights, they cannot be diluted because you have a certain european evolution. this has to be looked at very seriously.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 december 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the systems and legislation governing collective labour relations and workplace democracy vary from one member state to another and it is not desirable to provide a universal solution. it is for member states to refine and improve the management of labour relations in terms of worker autonomy, representation, participation and influence, in accordance with their specific national situation. there are a number of issues in the report which are worrying, and i dare say that it is a text fuelled by left-wing ideologies. the reopening of negotiations on the elements covered by the company law package is unacceptable, as is the extension of the commission's forthcoming initiative on sustainable corporate governance to measures on workers' participation rights. the provisions of the report concerning the scope of the new framework directive, the coverage of national collective bargaining and the extended scope of the directive on the employment of temporary staff are also inadmissible. i would also like to emphasise that the members of the boards of directors of companies should be selected and appointed on the basis of their professional competence and not on the basis of quotas.
today we are discussing one of the most important issues for every worker about legal protection, which should ensure a real sense of security for every worker and fair treatment of employees by employers. there is no doubt that there is a need to protect jobs and workers better. the european system of workers' rights must demonstrate to the member states the high standards of the employer-employee relationship. they must also prevent unfair and illegal practices against workers. the economic and pandemic crisis has exposed many shortcomings in the legal protection of workers. there have been massive layoffs. the rapid development of innovative measures to safeguard jobs is therefore essential to avoid unemployment. a key element of such a strategy should be cooperation and understanding in the workplace, so that employees can talk about the issues that concern them. they must have the right to freedom of association, including private companies, groups, unions or labour councils. this will be essential for the development of better relationships at work and will improve the functioning of enterprises and firms. there are already examples from the european commission. in fact, in companies with full employee participation, the management is almost twice as good as in companies without it. the new directive must fully guarantee workers' rights to freedom of association, association and assembly, irrespective of the form of employment.
the session is adjourned and will resume tomorrow, wednesday 15 december 2021, at 9.00 am with the joint statement on the preparation of the european council and the eu response to the global resurgence of covid. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
i should like to begin by pointing out the sanctions which unfortunately have been imposed on certain colleagues. breaking the covid pass rules to enter parliament is a serious act, not only because it violates the rules we have given ourselves and also because it puts your own health and the health of others at risk. in accordance with rule 10 (2) and rule 176 of the rules of procedure, i have decided to impose sanctions on the following: christine anderson, clare daly, stasys jakeliūnas, mislav kolakušić, cristian terheş and mick wallace for entering the parliament buildings without presenting the european union digital covid certificate, in breach of the bureau decision of 27 october 2021 on the exceptional health and safety rules governing access to the european parliament buildings at its three places of work. in view of the specific, recurrent or permanent nature of the conduct of the members concerned and the gravity and possible damage to the dignity and reputation of parliament, and having taken note of the observations of the members concerned, the penalties shall be: - for ms christine anderson, in the loss of her right to a two-day holiday allowance; - for the hon. clare daly, in a writ of summons; - mr stasys jakeliūnas, for loss of entitlement to a residence allowance for a period of two days; - mislav kolakušić, for loss of entitlement to a residence allowance for a period of two days; - mr cristian terheş, for loss of his right to a residence allowance for a period of seven days; - for the honourable mick wallace, in a writ of summons. the decisions were notified on 14 december 2021 to the members concerned, who may lodge an internal appeal against that decision with the bureau in accordance with rule 177. such an action shall suspend the application of the sanction.
as announced at the beginning of this part-session, the votes were distributed in several voting rounds, taking account of the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes by separate parts. in view of this, the second round of voting today is cancelled and the votes originally scheduled for this round of voting are redistributed. information on the distribution of votes will be available on our parliament website.
as regards the decisions of several committees to open interinstitutional negotiations under rule 71 (1) of the rules of procedure, as we announced at the opening of the sitting on monday, i have not received any request for a vote in parliament from a number of members or political groups equal to the average threshold and therefore the committees concerned can open negotiations.
mr president, this is a matter of order, and a matter of very short notice. i would just like to remind you that today, 15 december, is the 20th anniversary of the laeken declaration. it was a very important declaration which i want to recall briefly because it paved the way, as you will remember, for the convention on the future of europe, the constitution and the treaty of lisbon. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the laeken declaration already spoke of the european constitution and also of the pan-european constituency. i encourage all my colleagues - and parliament, the first - to continue along the path of the laeken declaration.
i thank you, mr domènec.
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the statements by the council and the commission on: - preparation of the european council meeting of 16 and 17 december (2021/2966 (rsp)) and - eu response to the global resurgence of covid-19 and the emergence of new covid variants (2021/30 (rsp)) 12 .
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this week, leaders will meet in brussels for the december european council, where they will discuss the ongoing covid-19 crisis and recent developments in belarus and ukraine. leaders will also touch on energy prices, security and defence, the external dimension of migration, and other foreign policy issues. due to the serious epidemiological situation, this european council will last only one day. it will take place tomorrow, on thursday, and be preceded by the eastern partnership summit (which takes place today) and followed by the euro summit (also on thursday). the european council meeting will start with the usual exchange with president sassoli. first, let me focus on the recent resurgence of the covid-19 pandemic. leaders will have a working session in which they will discuss the ongoing fight against the covid-19 pandemic in response to rising numbers and the emergence of the new variant, omicron. as member states step up their measures, continued coordination remains vital to ensure that new restrictions are targeted and proportionate, and neither undermine the functioning of the single market, nor unnecessarily hamper free movement. our best tool in fighting this pandemic is our vaccines, including booster shots. if our efforts are to be successful, we need to overcome vaccine hesitancy and fight disinformation. leaders will also discuss global vaccine sharing efforts, where the eu plays a major role, having donated 118 million vaccine doses to 60 countries so far. the eu and its member states will step up vaccine-sharing through covax and bilateral donation by committing to reach 700 million doses by mid-2022. efforts are being made to help develop local manufacturing capacity. this pandemic has also taught us that we need to be better prepared for future crises. leaders are expected to discuss crisis management and resilience on the basis of the council conclusions agreed in november on this subject. now turning to the other subjects of tomorrow’s meeting. following on from the october european council, leaders will return to the topic of high and volatile energy prices. following the publication of the preliminary report by the european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) and the european securities and markets authority (esma), they are expected to invite the commission to further examine the functioning of the electricity market and trading on the eu ets market, and to follow up appropriately. leaders are also expected to call for the swift examination of the proposals to revise the third energy package. during their working lunch, leaders will discuss both the deteriorating fundamental rights situation in belarus and the humanitarian crisis at its borders caused by the belarusian regime’s ongoing instrumentalisation of immigration. they will also exchange views on the worrying security threat at ukraine’s border and see how to react to this. in the afternoon working session, leaders will assess the implementation of the june and october european council conclusions on the external dimension of migration. recent action plans for countries of origin and transit should be made operational and implemented without further delay, in cooperation with partner countries, and adequate financing must be mobilised for migration-related action on all routes. in the area of security and defence, leaders are expected to give guidance on an ambitious strategic compass and to call for a strengthened strategic partnership with nato through a new joint declaration. leaders are expected to come back to security and defence again in march 2022, when they will endorse the strategic compass. relations between the european union and the african union are on the agenda, as leaders will discuss preparations for the new eu-african union summit, scheduled for february next year. at the end of their meeting on thursday, in the margins of the european council, leaders will be joined by the president of the ecb and the eurogroup for a euro summit in an inclusive format. thank you very much for your attention.
president of the commission. president. - mr sassoli, mr logar, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am not in favour of the motion for a resolution. we are meeting for the last time in this plenary this year, and i must say that i am speaking to you with a mixture of concern on the one hand and confidence on the other. of course, the primary cause of these mixed feelings is the pandemic. like many of you, i'm saddened to see this christmas overshadowed by the pandemic once again. but on the other hand, i am also full of confidence because we now have the power and, above all, the means to put an end to this pandemic and to overcome it. we've been working very hard this year to make those very resources available and, above all, to build better and new structures to respond to the pandemic. what's the situation? we are faced today with a double challenge. for one thing, we see that covid-19 cases have been increasing rapidly in europe. there are some member states that are experiencing the highest rates of new infections they have ever had, and with that, of course, comes an increase in the number of cases, an increase in the burden on hospitals. we are concerned about the increase in deaths. it is very important to keep in mind that this high increase in new infections is almost exclusively due to the delta variant. what worries me is that we're now seeing additional omicron on the horizon, the new variant that's obviously even more contagious. if you look at the time it takes for the number of new infections to double, it's just two to three days. the science tells us that we have to expect that by mid-january, omicron will be the new dominant variant in europe. but we've worked hard this past year, and we've achieved a lot. so europe is now better prepared to fight this virus, and that is for two main reasons. first, we have had enough vaccine for every european this year, more than a billion doses in total. as of today, more than 66% of the european population is fully vaccinated. that's more than 300 million people. in addition, 62 million people have now received the booster shot. we know that the science is telling us that the early data on omicron shows that this triple vaccination is the best protection against omicron currently available worldwide. of course, there's a lot more research to be done on omicron. but thanks to the work of our health agency hera, we now have a broad network of scientists and laboratories with which we are gaining new knowledge every day about the new variant and, above all, the danger it poses. secondly, we are in a better position because we are now able to produce 300 million doses of vaccine every month here in europe. we now have resilient supply chains. we have contracts that ensure that we also get vaccines that are adapted to new variants immediately. the companies -- looking at omicron now -- tell us that they need about 100 days to adapt the vaccine. and we're working closely with the european medicines agency (ema) to ensure that the approval process runs in parallel with the development of the omicron-adapted vaccine, so that the adapted vaccine can be approved as soon as possible. that means we stay vigilant. we've planned carefully, and both are paying off now. the most important thing now is to raise vaccination rates in europe as quickly as possible, in all age groups, including children. to do that, we need to get closer to people. we must set more vaccination dates, we must create more spontaneous opportunities and we must help, in particular, those member states which are still lagging behind in the pace of vaccination. in some member states, the commission has now started to launch targeted campaigns on social media, simply to improve information in the member states about the effectiveness of vaccines. this means that we too will make every effort to help overcome vaccine scepticism. the price we are all paying for too low vaccination rates is increasing. it's the people who pay for it, it's society who pays for it, it's our health care system who pays for it, it's our economy who pays for it. but this also applies to the many elderly citizens who will not be able to see their grandchildren this christmas. this is especially true for the children who are now unable to go to school again. my god, what kind of life, friendship, and learning time are we taking away from them? that means we owe it to all of them to get everyone vaccinated and to do everything we can to fight this pandemic. in addition, europe has delivered an unprecedented amount of vaccine to the rest of the world. if you look at the global numbers, 44% of the world's population is now fully vaccinated, and europe has a very large share of that. we have delivered over 1.4 billion doses of vaccine to 150 countries. we are now also the world's largest vaccine provider. we have so far provided 377 million doses of european vaccines, mainly to covax, including 50 million doses that we have provided bilaterally to the western balkans and the eastern partnership countries. yet billions of people around the globe have not even received their first dose of the vaccine. the continent that needs our support most is africa. only 7% of the population is vaccinated. that is why we are working very hard on a package for africa, also with a view to the eu-africa summit we will have in the spring. we don't just want to provide more vaccines, but -- and this is often a hindrance -- we want to do more work on infrastructure, work on medical training, provide more syringes, provide more infrastructure that is necessary for the vaccination capability. all the medical equipment, all that needs to be intensified. in addition, we are working as team europe to enable the development of mrna production capacity with our partners in senegal, rwanda and south africa, and with the private sector. yes, ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic is unprecedented in our history, but so is our response. apart from the pandemic, we will also discuss other important issues at the european council, from energy prices and the overall economic situation, indeed to the belarusian regime's hybrid attack against our member states, lithuania, poland and latvia. the autocratic regime's attempt to destabilise our member states has completely failed because our union reacted robustly and with great solidarity and unity. we mobilized humanitarian assistance, we introduced a tailored sharp set of sanctions, we supported voluntary returns, and, as a result, within just a month now, more than 3 500 migrants have been returned safely from belarus to iraq. however, the situation at our border with belarus should be seen in a wider context, mainly the deliberate attempt to destabilise the security of our democracies and those of our neighbours, and i want to focus on that now. we have all seen the reports of russia's massive buildup of military along ukraine's eastern border and also the attempt to destabilize ukraine from within. i want to reaffirm our unwavering commitment to ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as the right of any sovereign state to determine its own future. we also see the blatant attempt to intimidate moldova's reformist government by squeezing them on gas supplies at a time of high energy prices. we must protect our societies and our democracies from this kind of cynical geopolitical play. of course, we want good relations with russia, but whether this is possible depends, first and foremost, on russia's behaviour. at this point in time, russia is choosing an aggressive posture vis-à-vis its neighbors, and, as the european union and its g7 partners have made very clear, further aggressive acts against ukraine will have massive costs for russia. in june, the european council tasked us to come up with options. since then, we have been working on this in close cooperation with the united states and other partners. we are prepared. there's a whole set of economic sanctions in place, targeting the financial and energy sector, dual-use goods and defense. our response to any further aggression may take the form of a robust scaling up and expansion of these existing sanctions, and, of course, we are ready to take additional, unprecedented measures with serious consequences for russia. but above all, i call on russia to de-escalate, to pursue diplomatic channels and to abide by its international commitments. conflicts must be resolved peacefully. ladies and gentlemen, in our united response to threats from outside our european vaccination campaign, we demonstrate every day that our union and our democracy are keeping their promises. today, i would like to thank the slovenian presidency in particular. it is a great achievement to advance our work, from the coordination of covid-19 to the important dossiers for our durable and digital transitions. the french presidency is now on the horizon. it is a poster with great ambitions: from the fight against climate change and the digital revolution to the fight against global inequalities and the strengthening of our democracies. i am pleased with our cooperation and count on it to continue to make progress on our major projects. ladies and gentlemen, we have had a very eventful year. thank you very much for your unfailing support. i know that, like me, you enjoy spending time with your family and friends, which is why i wish you a merry christmas, merry christmas, merry christmas.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, minister logar, president von der leyen, i also want to thank first of all the slovenian presidency for their service for the european union, a great story and a lot of success stories behind, so thank you for all your efforts. this week, dear colleagues, we have to speak about war. war against, first of all, a virus that is killing people: 1 500 europeans every day. every day. a war against a health crisis which is forcing us to give us give up our lives – we cannot go to the christmas market like we used to, and a war against a pandemic which is dividing our societies, which is creating hatred and also bringing violence to our streets and our cities. the first message, with this in mind, is again a big thank you. we say it often but it’s probably not often enough, that doctors, nurses and health workers are doing an incredible job. they go to their breaking point every single day. thank you for this. the second message is that europe is delivering, as president von der leyen also expressed. we are world leaders on vaccinating people. we have a covid certificate guaranteeing the freedom of movement inside the european union, a huge success story, and we are global champion in solidarity, and it is about delivering vaccines to the rest of the world. the third message is vaccination is the strongest weapon we have to fight against the pandemic. that’s why we must promote again the booster campaign. we have to persuade our citizens, and as politicians we have to be very careful that we are not party politically misusing the concerns of some people when it is about vaccination for party political issues. we have to be united, to convince people to be vaccinated. and finally, we have to fight against disinformation. that’s probably the biggest worry i have currently. when i see that facts are no more the main argument in a democratic debate then we are lost as a democracy. that’s why we have to intensify our work to ask all social media providers to respect fundamental principles, fight against disinformation. if the social media providers are not doing this voluntarily, then we have to do it via legislation. herr präsident! der zweite krieg, den wir erleben, ist der stille krieg in der ostukraine, und vielleicht droht sogar ein heißer krieg. die situation in belarus, in der ukraine, in russland: hunderttausend schwerbewaffnete soldaten, strategisch positioniert, es stehen grundsatzfragen im raum: woran glauben wir? die erste grundsatzfrage, die souveränität von staaten in der europäischen union, in europa, ist für uns unantastbar. es ist der freie wille der ukraine, demokratisch zu entscheiden, wie sie leben wollen und mit wem sie leben wollen. nicht moskau, nicht brüssel, nicht paris, nicht berlin, niemand entscheidet, nur die ukraine entscheidet. und allen versuchen der geschichtsfälschung müssen wir entgegentreten. die zweite grundsatzfrage ist: wir haben über schwere krisen und kriege auf diesem kontinent das prinzip erdacht und erarbeitet, dass krieg kein legitimes mittel der politik ist. leider gottes hat putin, hat russland dieses prinzip bereits gebrochen mit der krim, mit der intervention in syrien und auch mit den steigenden spannungen im westbalkan. wir dürfen beide brüche nicht dulden. vor 30 jahren ist der kommunismus zusammengebrochen, 1991. ich habe die bilder selbst im kopf, als die russische fahne dann über dem kreml aufgezogen worden ist. wir hatten damals die hoffnung, dass es demokratisch weitergeht. wir hatten das angebot eines miteinanders auf diesem kontinent. ich erinnere mich selbst noch an jean-claude juncker, der ein angebot gemacht hat, eine freihandelszone von lissabon bis wladiwostok aufzubauen, wirtschaftlich zu kooperieren und miteinander in die zukunft zu gehen. wir bekamen darauf leider gottes keine antworten. mir ist es wichtig, das zu unterstreichen, weil ja heute immer wieder gesagt wird, dass wir schuld sind an der eskalation. nein, wir wollen das miteinander. was ist jetzt nötig? einheit und stärke. wir müssen putin eine klare rechnung präsentieren, was es bedeutet, wenn er seine eskalation weiter fortsetzt. dieses haus wird heute übrigens eine entschließung verabschieden, die das geschlossen zwischen den parteien zum ausdruck bringen wird. ich bedanke mich dafür. und jetzt steht die frage des rates im raum, was am donnerstag passiert. technisch, frau kommissionspräsident, ist die sanktionsliste vorbereitet, die toolbox liegt auf dem tisch. aber es ist keine technische frage, die jetzt im raum steht, es ist eine politische frage, ob unsere staats- und regierungschefs der europäischen union diese woche glaubhaft die entschlossenheit europas vermitteln. diese entschlossenheit ist dringender notwendig als jemals zuvor. und ein letzter gedanke: für uns ist letzte woche der gipfel zwischen joe biden und wladimir putin ein guter zwischenschritt gewesen, dass geredet wird und dass die rechnung auch von amerikanischer seite präsentiert wird. aber, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen, es muss doch für uns alle ein armutszeugnis sein, wenn über die zukunft europas verhandelt wird und kein europäer am tisch sitzt. deshalb ist es ein weckruf, dass wir endlich in der außenpolitik und bei dem aufbau von militärischen kapazitäten vorankommen, dass europa bei solchen gesprächen mit am tisch sitzt. wir sind herausgefordert, und in dieser wichtigen woche können wir frieden nur gemeinsam sichern.
on behalf of the s&d group. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, mr president, we have reached the equator of the pandemic-marked legislature and we cannot yet say that it is over. we already see that with covid we cannot let our guard down, but we cannot be distracted from the reforms necessary to transform our european project. in the next two and a half years, we must lay the foundations for a europe that is more resilient to future crises and reduce instability in areas such as energy supply or the management of migration at our borders. this crisis is of concern to us because it is precisely in the midst of difficulties that conviction is shown, and i hope that we can resolve all these issues in a way that respects our values. the union has been able to react quickly to the new wave of covid and, fortunately, the vaccine contracts signed by the commission include updates for the new variants. we see that the vaccination rate varies greatly between member states. the vaccine is the best weapon we have to deal with the virus, but in the absence of competence we can only ask the commission to inform citizens and governments in a transparent manner and to strengthen communication and vaccination campaigns. in my country the vaccination rate is 96 per cent of the target population, while in other countries it is less than 40 per cent. the debate on compulsory vaccination is necessary, but there is no one-size-fits-all solution. president von der leyen, you said that this would be a geopolitical commission and this is the moment to show the world that we are loyal, supportive and effective partners. the only way to ensure that everyone has access to an effective vaccine today is with the exception of trade-related intellectual property rights (trips). if we limit ourselves to covax, we will not be able to overcome the production limits imposed on pharmaceutical companies. much is still unknown about omicron, but what the global alert has shown is the enormous danger of the current inequality in access to vaccines. at any time, another, more deadly or vaccine-resistant variant can emerge and this is more likely to occur in places with high virus circulation and low vaccination rates. despite the support of more than 100 of the 64 countries of the world trade organisation and of this parliament, it is intolerable that the proposal should be blocked by the european commission and some countries. after one year, it is time for the commission to recognise that the current voluntary licensing regulation has not been a real alternative. neither is altruism. the covax programme has only distributed 550 million doses of the 2,000 that should be delivered before the end of this year. that's not enough. reality is a failure. the g20 countries now account for 80 percent of all vaccines produced. while europe has 70% of its population vaccinated, africa has only 7%. what's the solution? do we want africa to become the continent of covid? are you also willing to put up walls against the countries that we are vaccinated against? if we continue to stockpile vaccines and prioritize the interests of pharmaceutical companies, people will continue to die in the poorest countries. let's put human rights at the heart of our pandemic response by ensuring universal access to vaccines, medicines and technologies. i told them that the world needs unity, a stronger unity, a more autonomous unity, not to isolate us, but to lead a more just international relationship, one that seeks the dignity of all people. and to do that, we need to improve our strategic autonomy, reduce our dependence not only on autocratic governments that have no qualms about using refugees as a political weapon, but also on markets and speculation, which are only looking for economic gain. this cannot be achieved overnight, but in the two and a half years that remain in the legislature we have an obligation to invest in new structures, both in strategic industry and in the production of vaccines. the proposal to set up a centralised platform for buying natural gas, for example, to facilitate the creation of strategic reserves would be a step in the right direction. we know that putin sees his relations with europe as a geopolitical chess game to regain the squares lost with the end of the soviet union. neither nato nor the european union can allow moscow to impose its law, destroy the fledgling democracy in ukraine and intimidate the neighboring countries. the demands of putin to obtain a formal guarantee that nato will never be enlarged again cannot be accepted; not only ukraine's sovereignty is at stake, but also the project of european integration. i would like to conclude by assuring you of my group's willingness to continue to work loyally in the second half of the legislature so that the commission, the council and parliament can move forward in the europe we want and need. but i ask one thing of you: act with the same diligence. mrs von der leyen, in her state of the union speech, promised a directive against gender-based violence before the end of the year. two weeks left. i hope it wasn't just an ad, but a reality. and i wish you all a happy and supportive holiday.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues will have the opportunity to speak to you about the subjects on the european council's agenda, but i would like to speak to you about a subject which, although not on the council's official agenda, will undoubtedly be the subject of much discussion in the corridors: taxonomy. green taxonomy should be to finance what the organic label is to food. because under this somewhat technocratic term is actually hidden the nomenclature of what may or may not be considered a green investment. and there is urgency because today the financial sector is making investments in tobacco, weapons, private prisons, pesticides and so on look sustainable. who are we kidding? it's about time we put some order into this. with its taxonomy regulation, the european union is pioneering a more sustainable finance. but everyone knows that lobbies from all sides and some member states, france at the head of them, are exerting intense pressure to have investments in gas and nuclear energy recognised as green. it's like a dream, you're swimming in a delusion! madam president, i urge you to resist, because the very credibility of the green deal for europe is at stake. the gas case should be the most obvious one to deal with. even the very conservative international energy agency, created in 1974 to ensure the security of our oil supplies, says it clearly: if we are to meet our climate commitments, no more - i say no more - investment should be made in fossil fuels. nuclear energy, while emitting little co2, poses other major problems, including highly radioactive waste over tens of thousands of years, with which we do not know what to do, and increasingly difficult and costly security in the face of climate, geological and terrorist risks. and even if these problems were miraculously solved, the astronomical costs and the endless delays of the nuclear gamble simply won't allow us to win the climate battle. the construction of a few new nuclear power stations in france or finland has already taken more than ten years and has blown up all the budgets. and we have to drastically reduce our emissions by 2030, eight years from now. it starts today and time is running out. there are, of course, places where the use of gas or the extension of a few nuclear reactors is considered necessary to ensure a link with a world of renewable energy and energy sobriety. some would have us believe that excluding them from the green taxonomy would make this fusion impossible: it is an intellectual deception. these investments are still possible, but they will simply have to be paid at market prices. and they will not, of course, be able to benefit from public funds labelled as 'green'. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, violating the organic label would mean his death sentence. including gas and nuclear in the taxonomy would make it a dead project. resist, madam president! you are not going to win. resist the fetishes of the 21st century, look to the future.
in the name of the id group. mr president, mrs von der leyen, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the slovenian presidency, because it has not been an easy period and i believe that the slovenian structure has done an excellent job in a very complex situation. we are in the midst of a very difficult first part of this legislature, both because of the way in which this parliament has had to work and because of the crises we have had to face, extraordinary crises which have obviously put a great deal of pressure on the european institutions and this parliament. the first and most important of course was the covid crisis, and again, for the second christmas in a row, we will live the drama of restrictions, the drama of deaths, the drama of not having a definitive answer to this crisis yet, and i think it is now clear that the only long-term solution is to find a way to live with this virus, which unfortunately will be with us for a while. so the vaccine campaign is not enough, it is no longer a solution that can fully get us out of this crisis and, on this issue, i believe that europe must do more, on treatment, on how to find a solution that is complementary to that of vaccines to allow the situation to normalize and to allow also in the face of the emergence of new variants to have more weapons to counter this virus. and i think europe needs to improve its ability to identify and target new variants, because we're still way behind on this, and the uk has once again shown greater capacity to analyze the evolution of this virus. on the subject of energy, president lamberts has spoken a great deal, and he has given the greens' view. i believe that we are facing a dramatic emergency, and this dramatic emergency does not come as a surprise, but is the result of years of inaction and of wrong choices on the subject of autonomy. we have known for some time what the european situation is in terms of energy supplies and we have known for some time that we are too dependent on countries that blackmail us and with which we have profound geopolitical differences. we can put up a temporary wall to block any situation, but without a long-term solution we will always be dependent on the anti-democratic regime in power and therefore vulnerable to blackmail. it is true that i agree with president weber on the subject of russia and belarus: europe must be at that table, but it must be at that table by earning a place. unfortunately, the european countries are not reliable partners on this issue of our atlantic ally. we must do more about this and we must make it clear that the atlantic alliance is the linchpin of our response to the anti-democratic regimes that threaten our stability. i would like to conclude with the issue of immigration, which remains a fundamental issue. i regret that the council is starting from the conclusions of june. we do not need to start from these conclusions, but we need a change of course. the frontex data are dramatic and the situation in the central mediterranean is dramatic. i close with a merry christmas to all of you, hoping that the next two and a half years will be better than the ones we have had.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to join in thanking the slovenian presidency for the work it has done and i think it is important today, in view of tomorrow's council, to start thinking about the role not only of meps but also of citizens. reading the european council's agenda, one has the impression that it has been the same for a few months and that the conclusions do not advance on the main issues but stand still, and i think this is something to reflect on, also to try to give answers and identify concrete solutions. all this while - as you yourself have said - the epidemiological situation remains difficult and poses a serious threat to recovery. we must avoid alarmism, but we must work to strengthen the response to the pandemic, protecting health but avoiding, as far as possible, new restrictions that could lead to economic problems. support to member states needs to be improved, not least through effective and consistent communication on the science and technology behind vaccination. furthermore, as the president of ghana rightly pointed out in this house yesterday, until everyone is safe from covid, no one is safe. so it is important to win and to tackle the immediate challenge on vaccine distribution and production capacity, also and especially in africa, in the light of what you have called a very important summit between the european union and africa. but at the same time, growth is likely to be threatened by other factors, which have not been adequately addressed here either, starting with the energy price crisis, which will continue for a long time unless divisions are overcome and clear choices are made in terms of supply and use of resources. gas and nuclear are key to achieving the transition objectives, just as it will be crucial to support a real investment policy by member states that can be achieved by reforming - this is a key point - the stability and growth pact and the state aid rules. these are issues which, once again, are not on the agenda of the european council. realism and pragmatism are needed to prevent these green initiatives, also in the light of the outcome of cop26, from becoming a serious economic and social problem rather than solving an environmental issue. we also want to see decisions on immigration. after march, june and october, let us not allow this council to be a council of intentions and not of progress. the commission's proposals on the new pact on immigration and asylum risk not solving the problems and above all risk not putting in place a real policy on the external dimension, putting in place without further delay and delay a comprehensive vision and strategy on the three different routes that deal with immigration issues in the european context, but also to counter the attempts of third countries to use migrants as instruments to destabilize and blackmail our continent. all this must be accompanied by strong and clear political and diplomatic action aimed, on the one hand, at strengthening cooperation with the countries of the southern neighbourhood and, on the other, at putting an end to the destabilisation being carried out on the eastern front by belarus and russia's attempt to call into question the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. with the growing threat from russia and the increasing hostilities from china and the constantly unstable middle east, cooperation between the european union and nato is more necessary and fundamental than ever. it is therefore essential to avoid duplication and to ensure complementarity, burden-sharing and close transatlantic cooperation. on these points, the hope and the hope is that the council will be in a position to give answers and concrete progress and i too want to join, without irony but with conviction, in wishing, as you have done, in all languages, a merry christmas to all. i may be an unrelenting traditionalist, but i think this is a deep root which has represented and will represent much more in europe in the future.
mr president, president von der leyen, minister, people in the european union are concerned. people are watching and are feeling the increase in energy prices. people are seeing the pressure on the external border of the european union to belarus. they are following the developments in ukraine. and they see the emergence of a new covid-19 variant. in this situation, we as the european union, need to clearly tell people that the european union helps, the european union has solutions and the european union offers solutions to the problems that the people are facing. the european union has always helped during crises in recent years. during the economic crisis, no country in difficulty 10 years ago was left alone. when brexit occurred, we were united and we protected the rights of every single eu citizen in the united kingdom. and during the covid-19 crisis, many forms of support occurred, vaccines is just one of them. with the vaccine, it is like with the safety belt in a car: for sure, you are better protected with the vaccine than without it. the european union has always helped. it helps now, and it will also help in the future. the actions which we are undertaking now, for example, in the field of energy, will make sure that people are better protected. the reform of the eu gas market rules will prevent such developments in the future. joint procurement and joint gas reserves will allow us to use gas when it is needed and where it is needed. in the transition from coal to renewable green sources of energy, we need to recognise that for some countries, gas is the only solution. i call on the commission, when it will put forward its proposals on taxonomy, to recognise that gas based on new and modern technologies, of course. and as today – just to conclude – the eastern partnership summit takes place, we also need to say that helping countries in the eastern partnership means helping ourselves. we can only live in safety within the borders of the eu if we are surrounded by countries which also are safe and secure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many subjects on the council's agenda for tomorrow, and i would like to stress two points above all others. first, there is covid. we're in the middle of the fourth wave, and unfortunately, we're not out of this pandemic as much as we would like. we are not in the situation we were in a year ago, thanks to the work of everyone, but we must not let our guard down and we must take all the necessary measures to combat this pandemic, starting with vaccinations. the commission's decision to centralise purchasing has enabled all the member states to have the necessary vaccines for the doses under the same conditions, but we do not have the same percentage of people vaccinated in all the member states. while respecting the autonomy of the states, we must create the conditions for greater harmonization in europe, and we must move quickly with the third doses and with information campaigns based on data to convince people who are still reluctant. i come to the second point. if we can contain the epidemic without new closures and lockdowns, and also be helped by the widespread use of the covid pass, as is happening in many european countries, then we will be able to restart not only our normal lives, but also our economies. but there is one factor that is likely to hamper the recovery, and that is the rise in energy prices. action on taxes on utility bills and price relief are certainly good ways in which individual states are giving oxygen to households and small businesses, but coordinated action at european level is needed, starting with the possibility of common gas purchasing and storage, while we are pursuing with determination the implementation of the green deal with increased renewables and energy efficiency, to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and on foreign sources. we expect decisive signals to this effect from the next council meeting, which make sense and which will enable us to start 2022 with a further change of pace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after almost two years of the pandemic, i would like to do two things: first, to thank our citizens for all that they have had to endure and endure, and second, to promise them that we will do what is necessary to end this nightmare. thank you to all of you who have complied with the endless restrictions; thank you to those who have stayed home to take care of your families; thank you to the workers who have kept our lives from coming to a halt, particularly the doctors, nurses and healthcare workers; thank you to the entrepreneurs and the self-employed who have also carried on their businesses despite all the obstacles, and thank you to those who have been vaccinated, especially; thank you if you have not fallen for the anti-vaccine lies. but ladies and gentlemen, madam president of the commission, mr minister, all that is not enough: our citizens are tired and they not only want to live, they want to be able to enjoy their lives again, and our job is to give them the tools to do that, and i think two things are needed, basically. the first, which has been mentioned many times, is vaccines, vaccines stop infection, but above all they reduce the severity of the disease: we have to vaccinate everyone with the third dose, we have to continue to fight against anti-vaccine and we have to vaccinate the world. ladies and gentlemen, we will not be safe until we are all safe, but secondly, this is very important, we must have enough medical capacity, hospital capacity, nursing capacity, the general situation in the health sector so that we do not have to lock up again, we must be able to withstand wave after wave, if unfortunately more come, without restricting the freedoms of our citizens again. in short, more vaccines and more investment in health. at this time of year it is important that we regain the illusion of enjoying life, and in that sense, merry christmas to all and happy new year 2022!
mr president, we were already warned of the dangers of vaccine inequality. we already knew that in a highly interconnected world like ours, no one would be truly safe until everyone is safe. the longer it takes to achieve high rates of vaccination on a global scale, the greater the likelihood the new variants emerge that this become more resistant to existing vaccines. when you look at real numbers, the comparison between vaccination rates with high-income countries and low-income ones, particularly africa, is frightening. they tell us about a moral failure. while many people here are getting their third jab, around 90% in africa haven’t even got one dose yet. meanwhile, covax, the global mechanism that was supposed to facilitate equal sharing of vaccines, is failing to meet its goals, despite the eu being at the forefront of global efforts. this is not enough. lack of real solidarity will only make this pandemic last longer. we need to send a supply of vaccines faster, overcome bottlenecks in deliveries and open up production to developing countries while also fighting against the other pandemic, the disinformation pandemic. a temporary lifting of intellectual property rights on covid-19 vaccines, as this parliament has called for, would make vaccine protection more global, faster and cheaper, thus giving the virus fewer chances and less time to mutate into new variants. unfortunately, this waiver is still being blocked, amongst others, by the eu. we are now entering the third year of our lives with covid. it is about time to look at the pandemic as a global reality, and to vaccines as a global public good. it is time to learn the right lessons from this pandemic and to be better prepared when others come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the rise in energy prices, many europeans will have difficulty in heating themselves this winter. the green craze that has taken hold in brussels and is likely to worsen with the new german government wants to exclude nuclear energy from the energy sources that can help to combat carbon emissions, even though it is the only way forward - and indeed a limiting factor - for the commission in the field of ecology. it is true that renewable energy sources, especially wind power, are expensive, intermittent and more polluting than is generally believed, and are often lucrative markets that some people profit from, claiming to save the planet. nuclear power is the cleanest, cheapest and most carbon-free energy. it is dominated by advanced engineering, a european and particularly french sector of excellence. emmanuel macron now claims to have finally realised this, after having taken the totally irresponsible decision to close the nearby fessenheim power station. so take off your blinders, stop dogmatically rejecting nuclear energy, an energy of the future to ensure the independence and purchasing power of europeans. but producing electricity at a reasonable cost is not enough. we also need partners for an abundant supply of cheap natural gas. and don't be offended, the main partner - because it's obviously not about being dependent on anyone and therefore at the mercy of a single source - is russia. it is essential for our energy security and the pocketbooks of our citizens that we break out of the vicious circle of sanctions, which themselves generate embargoes, and of the insane and absurd policy of a new cold war that brussels has been pursuing for years. despite his constant assaults and insults, you trade with turkey. despite the duplicity they often display, you are trading with china and the united states, which are also defending their own interests, which is not in itself objectionable. but you are irrationally refusing any appeasement of russia. of course, the sovereignty of our nations, the territorial integrity of european countries are not negotiable. but once these limits are set, we must be able to dialogue in order to find mutually beneficial political, economic and trade agreements. if you want russia to leave us alone, leave russia alone and trade with it: our civilization and our common interests, particularly in energy, should encourage us to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, the resurgence of the pandemic is proving to be more resilient than expected and therefore speeding up vaccination, not only in the european union but in the world population, is a top priority. it's a one-way street, because as long as africa has a vaccination rate of 7 percent, it becomes a laboratory for mutations, like the omicron that started in botswana and is threatening global health and the economy. that is why we must finally move forward with the removal of the patent on vaccines and make the vaccine a global public good. the majority of the european parliament is calling for this. more than 100 member states of the world trade organization are calling for it. 60 nobel prize winners are asking for it. the commission and the council must put the value of life and public health above the interests of big pharma, with life and public health against the interests of multinationals. what you should do at the summit.
mr president europe has been at war for years with the flood of illegal migration and the pro-immigration forces that support illegal migration. europe is defended in this fight by its member states alone. the bureaucracy in brussels is at best a mere hand-holding and a hindrance, and at worst a back-attack on the union's external borders, on the member states that protect millions of europeans. meanwhile, it is clear that the european asylum and migration system is broken. there is an urgent need for eu legislation to implement a deterrent to illegal border crossings and mass abuse of the right to asylum. the commission must help those member states which are protecting their borders by using their own powers, and in the way they wish. the commission's proposals so far are going in exactly the opposite direction: they contain everything that is not necessary, but nothing that is necessary for border protection. europe can only remain a continent of peace and security if it protects its citizens from the threat of illegal migration.
mr. president, the year 2021 is coming to an end and it's time to take stock. we in the european parliament have defended the rule of law and democracy inside and outside the union. through the european funds we have defended economic recovery and solidarity. and in fighting the pandemic, we have taken a decisive step towards a europe of health. however, there are still many challenges ahead. we must win the battle against the virus by fighting misinformation and fake news, which are fearsome covid allies, and we must redouble our efforts to help vaccinate the rest of the world. only then will we be able to achieve the much-needed vaccination. on the other hand, the recovery funds are a great responsibility. the management of huge resources must be accompanied by transparency and control in the implementation of the funds in each member state. only then will we avoid inefficiency, patronage and corruption and only then will we be able to modernise our economies and create jobs. we cannot waste a public euro at a time when life is getting more expensive for millions of families. the price of the shopping basket and the energy bill have gone up. and defending the well-being of europeans also means defending our borders in ceuta, poland or greece against the threats and hybrid attacks of those who want to destabilise our union by exploiting the human drama of migration. that is why, more than ever, we must also work together for a common migration pact. gentlemen of the council, our values and our freedoms are at stake. let us work together and firmly. and i wish you all a merry christmas.
mr. president, new variants of covid-19 will not stop emerging unless the necessary steps are taken to vaccinate the world. the selfishness of the rich countries is driving us all back. that is why it is urgent that patents be released and that the world be allowed to be vaccinated. internally, we need to allow for serious investment in health services and systems. health workers have been tireless and continue to work without means or resources. we've been making these orders since day one, and we're not gonna stop making them. as regards energy prices, it is urgent to review the rules of the electricity market. it cannot be the big companies that regulate prices themselves. in recent decades electricity companies have had complete impunity to set prices and also to buy political goodwill. the situation of oligarchic power in which the large electricity producers operate means that 34 million households in the european union cannot heat their homes. the key question is: does the european union really want to act or does it prefer to continue to pretend?
mr president, mr vice-president šefčovič, tomorrow's council meeting will begin by discussing issues which are fundamental to stability, security and peace in europe. the question of the hybrid attack in belarus with the exploitation of migrants is a fundamental issue on which europe, together with the united kingdom and the united states, cannot, under any circumstances, make concessions. the same applies to the ukrainian question and to the threat posed by putin to peace and stability in europe, which is now being called into question by the russian government and putin's leadership. the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and we must be able to do so in a way that is compatible with the interests of the union. speaking of russia, this has a clear impact on energy prices. we know that they are constantly increasing, that they are now strangling families, and i can give the example of portugal where the government continues, in the area of fuel and gas, to give the portuguese a winter that will be unsustainable from the point of view of prices. a final word for africa, for the summit with the african union which will finally take place on 17 and 18 february, where the question of development, the question of security and terrorism, climate change, migration will of course be discussed, but where solidarity with the african continent in vaccination and in particular the fight against the pandemic must also be discussed. without the third dose in europe, but without the first in africa, there will be no resolution of the pandemic. a merry christmas and a prosperous new year to all is my wish.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hysteria in this european union continues. for almost a month now, the only thing that has been talked about with horror is the omicron variant, which is less dangerous than the flu and has not caused any deaths in the european union so far. it is by managing through fear and by multiplying the freedom-killing measures that we now want to vaccinate our children. like our french prime minister, jean castex, who does not hesitate to shamefully accuse his own 11-year-old daughter of having infected him. because even if she had been vaccinated, everyone knows that she could still have infected him. for us, it is definitely a no to compulsory vaccination for our children. i hear you constantly talking about the danger of the so-called extreme right, but it is in our democracies that you need a state document to go to the cinema or to drink coffee. so what a scandal! stop losing your mind, please! stop the segregation and stop the stigmatization of the unvaccinated. as marine le pen proposes, let us choose to convince rather than coerce. let's call for accountability and focus on education and treatment. it's time to reclaim our sanity and our freedoms.
mr president, after having pushed the states towards liberalisation and privatisation of the energy sector, depriving them of this important instrument of sovereignty and intervention in favour of households, businesses and the economy, the eu is now telling them that they must pay the bill for this option, which only confirms the need to regain public control of this sector. the eu's uncompromising persistence in safeguarding the interests of multinationals by blocking the suspension of patents is also contributing to the global delay in vaccination and the resulting consequences. the response to the crisis through recovery plans defined on the back of political conditionality without addressing many of the structural problems facing countries like portugal. the insistence on the militaristic and aggressive nature of the eu and the persistence in a policy of interference and affront to sovereign countries, to the horror of international law. this is the course of the eu. a course detached from reality, from social progress, from sovereign development and peace.
mr president, the response to the global resurgence of the pandemic and the summit with the african union in early 2021 are closely linked issues at the next european council. indeed, the pandemic is reappearing largely because of the omicron variant, which started in africa, where the vaccination rate is 7%. and we know that the likelihood of new variants of the virus appearing where vaccination rates are so low is huge. africa, and especially south africa, is urging the european union to temporarily lift patents on vaccines and related technologies. but the european union says no. is this our proposal for partnership with the african union? the argument that the lifting will not speed up the vaccination processes on the continent is false. africa has at least six factories ready to produce messenger rna vaccines in a few months, and this would allow mass access to vaccines at cost and devote the continent's resources to improving its logistics networks. but if that argument were true, it would be all the more reason to suspend patents. because then the pharmaceutical industry has nothing to fear, because no one will be able to compete with it. the omicron variant forced the suspension of the wto meeting, where the european union was going to violate the mandate of this parliament. we still have time to rectify and do what the global interests of the planet, the interests of africa and the interests of the union itself require of us.
mr president, the emergence of new variants has caused much worry. yes, it has been almost two years since covid-19 emerged, but it has also been two years of experience and lessons learned. president ursula von der leyen has said that we need to be prepared to act quickly and that we need to have the right tools in place for the public. this could not be more true. more than ever, we need a strong eu response to address new variants. to do this, we must address the elephant in the room: increasing vaccine deployment in the developing world. while we have done a lot, we need to urgently remove bottlenecks in the sharing and administration of vaccines, but not just this – the sharing of information and know-how also. without redoubling our efforts in this area, we risk seeing emerging variants with every letter of the greek alphabet, with all the devastation that comes with them. i was happy to see that our president mentioned the need to spare no effort to overcome vaccine hesitancy and fight disinformation. it fills me with immense pride at how much irish people have accepted their social responsibility in taking the vaccines. however, disinformation on vaccines will have long—term implications in society, eroding public trust in governments and creating a conspiracy-theory infrastructure that has successfully consumed individuals who would otherwise never have gone down this dangerous path.
mr president, this document gives me the right to be spanish and, as a spaniard, to enjoy rights which are recognized in the spanish constitution: freedom of movement or freedom to work. it was said here that we would get back to normal with vaccination, and millions of doses were bought; that the eu digital covid certificate was to facilitate travel, travel and tourism between member states, but where are we now? 80% of the adult population in the european union is vaccinated, but families, children and young people continue to be criminalized; the eu digital covid certificate is used to restrict freedoms and to create first and second class citizens: you can't enter here, you can't eat here, you can't go to work here. you are dynamiting the community; now you are talking about compulsory vaccination, fines and other restrictions, but we still do not know the contracts with the pharmaceutical companies or the origin of the virus and do not hold accountable the real culprits who have destroyed the lives of millions of europeans: it is the new way of doing politics, silencing and imposing instead of informing and convincing, but, look, governing with fear is the thing of despots. the only thing left for us europeans is that they won't be able to take christmas away from us. merry christmas to all!
in writing. spanish socialists have defended the suspension of vaccine licenses to tackle the covid-19 pandemic because it is intolerable that while europe has more than 70% of the vaccinated population, africa has only 7%. the eu needs to promote universal access to vaccines, medicines and technologies. we have also called for the early launch of a centralised european platform for the purchase of natural gas, which will facilitate the creation of strategic reserves and the promotion of renewable energy sources in order to avoid the risk of deaths from cold, power cuts and the closure of factories and businesses. finally, the socialists have called on the council to tackle the migration challenge as soon as possible with an approach based on solidarity and respect for human dignity. and to the commission that it fulfils its promise to present a directive against gender-based violence before the end of the year.
in writing. spanish socialists have defended the suspension of vaccine licenses to tackle the covid-19 pandemic because it is intolerable that while europe has more than 70% of the vaccinated population, africa has only 7%. the eu needs to promote universal access to vaccines, medicines and technologies. we have also called for the early launch of a centralised european platform for the purchase of natural gas, which will facilitate the creation of strategic reserves and the promotion of renewable energy sources in order to avoid the risk of deaths from cold, power cuts and the closure of factories and businesses. finally, the socialists have called on the council to tackle the migration challenge as soon as possible with an approach based on solidarity and respect for human dignity. and to the commission that it fulfils its promise to present a directive against gender-based violence before the end of the year.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, i do not know if many of you have noticed the message on the first page of all the reports we adopt in the european parliament: united in diversity. every time i come across this phrase, especially when we are working on some report on the backsliding of women's rights or on the persecution of lgbtq people by some governments, i say to myself that maybe we should engrave it on stone all over the union like the roman landmarks that marked roads. the commission's inclusive language guide simply translated into the official language a diversity that already exists in the european union. just because we haven't always had words to describe it doesn't mean it hasn't been like that since the beginning of time. those who have called for the withdrawal of this guide with the crude excuse that it cancels christmas are not waging a war against inclusive language: they are waging a war against reality and against life. i would just ask the commissioner, who unfortunately is not in this debate today, to be more ambitious in the measures she proposes to fight for equality. but today i want to send you my support and tell you not to be intimidated by the far right and their hoax makers. i recommend the guide to all those involved in communication, education and politics, and to anyone who simply wants to use the most appropriate words to describe and understand the world in which they live. happy holidays to you.
madam president, commissioner, let me start with some evidence: it may seem incredible to you, but those of us who believe that inclusive language is important because what is not named does not exist, or because diversity is also built through what is made visible, do not intend to eliminate the ideas of others; quite the contrary. the fact that the european institutions have a guide suggesting an inclusive language is simply an exercise in democratizing living spaces, not a dogma. in fact, you can rest assured that your lordship privileges are still intact and christmas is not in danger. in fact, this guide didn't cancel anyone, it just equalized some things. in these battles, often called "frivolous" by those who speak from the privilege of being named exclusively or of having occupied our spaces, we also stake the meaning of equality and the visibility of those who are always invisible. unfortunately, the commission, by playing into the hands of white, conservative men with certain religious values, leaves us out of all the others. meanwhile, we'll keep naming ourselves.
mr president, i have a question: at what point did you decide to blow everything up? at what point did you go mad and put yourselves at the service of evil and decide to make the union the enforcer of anything that destroys what is valuable? today we are talking about this proposal from the european commission, which means that we can no longer say 'merry christmas' but 'happy holidays': it does not matter that the commissioner responsible has taken a step backwards when she sees the scandal she has created, because in reality we know that they will be back in charge, and these delusional guides to inclusive and progressive language already exist in this parliament and other institutions of the union. for a quarter of a century the european people's party has been the majority group in this house: one day they will have to explain to their voters why they have left all power in the hands of the left and the far left. by virtue of being inclusive, are they going to exclude christians from europe, replace us with peaceful jihadists? yes, jesus christ was born in bethlehem to mary and joseph; the elites of that time also wanted to kill him, but he changed the world for the better. europe became christian and since then, and forever, we'll say "merry christmas".
madam president, political correctness and gender madness have hit europe once again, hard. the commission apparently wants a europe where women cannot be called women anymore and men shouldn’t be called men, where we are advised not to use names like mary and john, and where we are supposed to say winter holidays instead of christmas holidays. well, we in central europe have a strange feeling that we’ve been here before – this feeling of déjà vu, when we were supposed to say pine holiday instead of christmas; when we were supposed to say uncle winter instead of santa claus. but that was during totalitarian communism – and in 2021, here we are in the european union back there. well, george orwell must be turning in his grave, i’m sure. let me say a word to my former political family, the epp group, and especially the epp leadership. well, this is exactly where your ill-conceived policy or politics of appeasement has led. this is what happens when you give in to every single crazy idea of the left. it’s a shame that this could have happened under an epp-led european commission, don’t you think? and finally, just a word to our commissioner dalli, who didn’t have the courage to come here today. the belated withdrawal of these absurd guidelines is not enough. she should resign immediately.
madam president, the european commission recommends not to congratulate christmas. it does so in the name of so-called inclusive language. they had to rectify, that's true. and it may seem like a joke, a small anecdote, but it's not. last year i wanted to donate a birth so that it could be displayed in a central location of the european parliament. with this small gesture i wanted our institution to be able to show that it recognizes the cultural and religious history of the christian roots of european citizens. to my surprise, my proposal has been repeatedly rejected on the grounds that it may be offensive. and today, to this day, i am still waiting for president sassoli's response to my new request to be able to have a birth in the european parliament this year. what's really going on? what nonsense is this? why are the european institutions, so prone to celebrate all kinds of anniversaries, reluctant to celebrate christian holidays? do they intend to erase our christian roots? to want to erase every trace of christianity is to want to erase our identity. no one is required to be a christian to be a european citizen, more is needed. everyone can fit into europe, but it is a fact that most european citizens consider themselves to be christians. without christianity, we could not understand the culture, the art, the history of each of our member states. is the european project not rooted in christianity? ladies and gentlemen, to wish you a merry christmas is to congratulate ourselves on our common heritage. there is no greater offense than to want to deny us our identity. let's not make that mistake. merry christmas to all and may the arrival of the god child bring you all the best for 2022.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, the fact that the current debate in this last plenary session of the european parliament is centred around an internal commission document which no longer exists shows that, with all due respect, the proposal of the european people's party in this case has been a little too light-hearted. i can assure you that the european right, especially coming from a spanish right, has always seemed to us to be democratic and centred, but also that in this direction it may undoubtedly be embarking on the path of populism most characteristic of the extreme right, far, undoubtedly, from the common european project. the european people's party has been pointing the finger at the equality commissioner, i think undeservedly, and it is questionable whether it is doing so to divert attention from the serious attacks on the rule of law and the rights of women and lgbt people that are taking place in some member states led by governments of its political family. let us be serious: making progress on inclusion, equality and equal treatment must be a very serious matter for this parliament, and certainly it is for the socialists and democrats, who believe in an inclusive and progressive european union, regardless of people's religion, gender, sexual orientation, age and ethnicity: we certainly count on your party, and also on the commission, to build that europe of all and for all.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the commission's data show that different countries combine european cooperation funds money with national money in very different ways; countries such as france and italy complement european money with very substantial national investment: in the case of italy, four points of national gdp for every point of gdp of european money. in other countries, such as spain, the opposite is the case: they entrust the whole of the recovery to european funds and do not supplement it with national funds. in fact, in spain, only 0.15 points of gdp is added to every point of european money invested; this may seem responsible, but it is not: as long as the pandemic lasts, the responsible thing is to spend whatever is necessary to maintain economic activity, protect families and maintain investment, and at the same time, and this is key to avoiding a debt crisis, it is important to have sustainable accounts in the medium term that allow us to assure the markets that any debt we incur will only be temporary. that's what mario draghi is trying to do in italy, with a major pension reform that eliminates the so-called 100 quota and, at the same time, a huge fiscal stimulus in 2022. and it is the opposite of what spain is doing, where the fiscal stimulus is minimal and, at the same time, a pension reform is being carried out which increases the structural deficit by four points of gdp; that is to say, the mix of fiscal policies is completely absurd, more debt and less stimulus: the worst of both worlds. mr commissioner, mr executive vice-president of the commission, europe must ensure that european money is well spent and does not lead us to a new euro crisis: please make sure that this is the case.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism (rrm) was approved a year ago. the national recovery and resilience plans (nrps) have been adopted so far for 22 member states. the only country which has not yet submitted it is the netherlands. the commission is assessing the national plans of poland, hungary, sweden and bulgaria. so far, it has disbursed pre-financing for 17 rdps. four member states should receive their prefinancing soon. spain is the only country in the european union which has signed the operational agreement with the european commission for the disbursement of the recovery funds. the rest of the countries are expected to complete the preparation phase and enter the implementation phase, with 2022 being a key year. in february, the commission will present its annual report, quantifying, inter alia, expenditure under each of the six pillars of the recovery plan, and social expenditure, with a breakdown for children and young people. the socialist and democratic group has been very critical of the indicators proposed by the commission to monitor social spending and gender and will continue to insist that they be improved.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism (rrm) was approved a year ago. the national recovery and resilience plans (nrps) have been adopted so far for 22 member states. the only country which has not yet submitted it is the netherlands. the commission is assessing the national plans of poland, hungary, sweden and bulgaria. so far, it has disbursed pre-financing for 17 rdps. four member states should receive their prefinancing soon. spain is the only country in the european union which has signed the operational agreement with the european commission for the disbursement of the recovery funds. the rest of the countries are expected to complete the preparation phase and enter the implementation phase, with 2022 being a key year. in february, the commission will present its annual report, quantifying, inter alia, expenditure under each of the six pillars of the recovery plan, and social expenditure, with a breakdown for children and young people. the socialist and democratic group has been very critical of the indicators proposed by the commission to monitor social spending and gender and will continue to insist that they be improved.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism (rrm) was approved a year ago. the national recovery and resilience plans (nrps) have been adopted so far for 22 member states. the only country which has not yet submitted it is the netherlands. the commission is assessing the national plans of poland, hungary, sweden and bulgaria. so far, it has disbursed pre-financing for 17 rdps. four member states should receive their prefinancing soon. spain is the only country in the european union which has signed the operational agreement with the european commission for the disbursement of the recovery funds. the rest of the countries are expected to complete the preparation phase and enter the implementation phase, with 2022 being a key year. in february, the commission will present its annual report, quantifying, inter alia, expenditure under each of the six pillars of the recovery plan, and social expenditure, with a breakdown for children and young people. the socialist and democratic group has been very critical of the indicators proposed by the commission to monitor social spending and gender and will continue to insist that they be improved.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism (rrm) was approved a year ago. the national recovery and resilience plans (nrps) have been adopted so far for 22 member states. the only country which has not yet submitted it is the netherlands. the commission is assessing the national plans of poland, hungary, sweden and bulgaria. so far, it has disbursed pre-financing for 17 rdps. four member states should receive their prefinancing soon. spain is the only country in the european union which has signed the operational agreement with the european commission for the disbursement of the recovery funds. the rest of the countries are expected to complete the preparation phase and enter the implementation phase, with 2022 being a key year. in february, the commission will present its annual report, quantifying, inter alia, expenditure under each of the six pillars of the recovery plan, and social expenditure, with a breakdown for children and young people. the socialist and democratic group has been very critical of the indicators proposed by the commission to monitor social spending and gender and will continue to insist that they be improved.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism (rrm) was approved a year ago. the national recovery and resilience plans (nrps) have been adopted so far for 22 member states. the only country which has not yet submitted it is the netherlands. the commission is assessing the national plans of poland, hungary, sweden and bulgaria. so far, it has disbursed pre-financing for 17 rdps. four member states should receive their prefinancing soon. spain is the only country in the european union which has signed the operational agreement with the european commission for the disbursement of the recovery funds. the rest of the countries are expected to complete the preparation phase and enter the implementation phase, with 2022 being a key year. in february, the commission will present its annual report, quantifying, inter alia, expenditure under each of the six pillars of the recovery plan, and social expenditure, with a breakdown for children and young people. the socialist and democratic group has been very critical of the indicators proposed by the commission to monitor social spending and gender and will continue to insist that they be improved.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism (rrm) was approved a year ago. the national recovery and resilience plans (nrps) have been adopted so far for 22 member states. the only country which has not yet submitted it is the netherlands. the commission is assessing the national plans of poland, hungary, sweden and bulgaria. so far, it has disbursed pre-financing for 17 rdps. four member states should receive their prefinancing soon. spain is the only country in the european union which has signed the operational agreement with the european commission for the disbursement of the recovery funds. the rest of the countries are expected to complete the preparation phase and enter the implementation phase, with 2022 being a key year. in february, the commission will present its annual report, quantifying, inter alia, expenditure under each of the six pillars of the recovery plan, and social expenditure, with a breakdown for children and young people. the socialist and democratic group has been very critical of the indicators proposed by the commission to monitor social spending and gender and will continue to insist that they be improved.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, it seems that the european parliament is in warsaw, because we have already lost count of the debates that have taken place in this house on poland. a few weeks ago, the polish constitutional court declared that part of the european convention on human rights was incompatible with the polish constitution. this appears to have been his response to the ruling of the european court of human rights questioning the legality of his appointment. gentlemen dressed in supposedly high-waisted robes, involved in the childish game of "where the chips fall where the chips are taken". the european union's political culture is based on the culture of rights, not christianity. now, the polish government, after having de facto banned abortion, surprises us with a legal exercise of the holy inquisition: a compulsory registration of pregnancies and abortions to monitor women. what's next, the right to food legislation? it is clear that both sides are determined to boycott eu law and to use its citizens as human shields to maintain their own pulse against the 21st century.
madam president, commissioner, these things usually happen gradually. they start with a furious gentleman pointing out gays, lesbians, women, migrants and the poor as enemies, obviously imaginary. he continues to normalize that narrative in the institutions (i think it sounds like them). and it ends with discussions like this, where we're debating the polish government's plan to turn their country into the handmaid's tale. that's the centralized registry of pregnancies to prevent possible abortions, clandestine or outside the country. another leap in the use of violence against women, a measure that, in addition to eliminating the right to say about their bodies, makes women into protected beings. your uterus will be government property. a pregnant woman will cease to be a human being and become an object. mr schinas, we need firmness and concrete measures to defend human rights in poland. the commission must commit itself and put in place a plan to ensure that the sexual and reproductive rights of polish women are respected by enabling european resources to do so.
in writing. the debate focused on the proposal for a council decision on emergency interim measures for the external border with belarus in response to the hybrid attack on the eu, especially lithuania, poland and latvia, in the form of the exploitation of persons, which has been taking place since the summer by the lukashenko regime. the s&d group expressed its strong dissatisfaction with the proposed measures which would derogate from european asylum law. the group considers that the above proposal would be a disproportionate measure as there is no massive influx of migrants to lithuania, poland or latvia compared to the number of people arriving each week via the different mediterranean routes or to the canary islands. the s&d group also considers that article 78 (3) tfeu is not the appropriate legal basis, as it only provides for the possibility of adopting asylum measures, while the proposed decision also regulates return measures. finally, the group expressed concern that the european parliament would be subject only to the consultation procedure and that its role and right of scrutiny would therefore be severely limited.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, first and foremost i would like to thank mr falcă for his comprehensive report, which will further contribute to strengthening cooperation between our institutions. as he said today, more than ever, petitions are an effective channel for direct contact and open dialogue on problems affecting the daily lives of europeans. your committee has swiftly adapted to the challenges of the current pandemic, playing a key role in ensuring parliament’s continued engagement with citizens. our rapporteur already made a reference to the increase in the number of petitions, and i can say that it was an almost 16% increase, and indeed, as mr falcă has said, the increase was quite significant and the overall number is now 1 573, which is pretty impressive. many of these were to do with the health concerns related to the covid-19 pandemic, as well as fundamental rights linked to the extraordinary measures taken by the member states during this time. in addition, environmental issues remained an area of serious concerns for petitioners in 2020. i also take note that your committee has devoted much effort to the protection and promotion of the rights of people with disabilities and children’s rights. i would like to congratulate you on the improvements to your petitions web portal. this is an essential tool for ensuring a smooth, efficient and transparent petitions process and is fully in line with our collective efforts for a digital union. the issues raised by petitioners largely align with the commission’s priorities under president von der leyen’s political guidelines, especially the transition towards a greener, more digital, fairer and more resilient society. and as i said during our structured dialogue two weeks ago, i fully agree that providing timely and substantive answers to petitioners contributes to strengthening the credibility of all eu institutions. therefore, i am working very hard together with the commission services to make sure that the commission plays an active role in your committee to ensure citizens receive detailed and understandable responses. the commission has been well represented at your committee meetings, including by my fellow commissioners, vice-president jourová, commissioner dalli, our services and also myself, and i am glad to say that we further rationalised the process of replying to your requests to achieve a more transparent and streamlined way of working. we also remain committed to fruitful cooperation in addressing infringement-related petitions. the proper application of eu law is a collective responsibility shared between the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, and national authorities. therefore i welcome your call on national authorities to be proactive in taking the necessary measures to respond to citizens’ petitions in cases of systemic failure to comply with eu law. as i explained during our structured dialogue, the aim of the formal infringement procedure is to help member states to correct the laws or practices. it is not designed to offer concrete solutions for individuals or ensure individual redress, not least because the process can take years. rather, infringements contribute to addressing systemic problems affecting a large amount of people, often across member states. to put it simply, our enforcement work focuses on the root causes of the problem rather than the symptoms. one such example was the commission’s intervention in the early stages of the pandemic against the practice of issuing travel vouchers for holidays cancelled because of covid-19, even to those who wanted refunds. in its recommendation of 13 may 2020, the commission recalled the obligations stemming from the package travel directive and then opened infringement proceedings against 11 member states. in most cases, the national measures were amended or expired or were not renewed. only in one case did the commission have to take the member states to the european court of justice. i also appreciate this committee’s fruitful cooperation during the reporting period regarding the withdrawal of the uk from the eu and the negotiations on our future relationship with the united kingdom. in particular your work helped to ensure that citizens can have their concerns around brexit heard. to conclude, i want to reassure you that the commission remains committed to maintaining close and fruitful cooperation with your committee.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, gheorghe falcă. he has managed to table a report with a large cross-party majority. this is good and important because, firstly, it is our own work that we represent here, and secondly, we are the only committee in the european parliament where the agenda is de facto made and decided by the people. petitions that are filed determine our own agenda. it's as close as you can get to the humans. and it's also a big responsibility. we should and must live up to that responsibility. and that is why it is good that we did not design the annual report as a political battlefield, but that we were able to adopt it with a super-large majority in the committee on petitions. now the second story is perhaps typical of german thinking. what can we do better in the future? we should talk about that, too. the first is that we should also respond more quickly in the interests of the petitioners. i am very encouraged by the commissioner's remarks. we'll get on with it. we're recording this. and in a proper game of ping-pong, we get the petitioners to get a proper answer quickly. secondly, the problem is one of responsibility. i think that honestly deciding on what is and is not a matter of competence is sometimes better than waiting in line for a petition. it is simply not fair to discuss with the petitioners things that are not our responsibility, that ultimately cannot be helped. thirdly, it is obvious that mixed responsibilities make it difficult. but even then, we should have the courage to say: 'well, we'll figure out where we're competent, and where we're not competent, we'll just have to wait a little longer.' and fourthly, many of our petitions are technical. we should reactivate our network, which we did. finally, i would like to thank the members and the secretariat of the committee on petitions. and last but not least, i wish you all a very merry and blessed christmas 2021.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, whenever we take stock of the committee on petitions, we are in the habit of saying that this is a very, very important committee because it is the tool citizens have to assert their european rights. it would be good if we all believed that, because some people also think that, since it is not a legislative committee, it is a second-rate committee. in my opinion, this is a first-rate commission. no other body has the capacity to give citizens the hearing that the committee on petitions has. no other committee has the capacity to demand reports or to call the european commission or the member states or their regions, or even local authorities, to appear, as the committee on petitions does. of course, we have often criticised the european commission for not being more involved in its role as 'guardian of the treaties' when it comes to taking a position on specific complaints where it is very easy to do so. that is why, for the umpteenth time, we are calling for the commission to be more involved in responding and for all the european institutions to do the same. and, looking at the members of the european parliament, i ask the right-wing groups in this house to stop supporting the use of the committee on petitions as a tool for attacking and opposing democratically elected governments. this is happening with spanish meps from the pp, vox and ciudadanos, who confuse the committee on petitions with a national parliament or a television set. these are members who raise questions without any competence or justification, with the intention of generating headlines about fictitious investigations by europe against the government of spain. and they do this sometimes using militants or even public officials from their parties disguised as petitioners to simulate invented violations. please stop usurping the rights of citizens who really need us, but who cannot present their demands because other issues are allowed only because some do not know how to lose elections. i know it's not all of you, ladies and gentlemen, but we do a great job here. it is a minority of members, but unfortunately, to date, they have the support of their groups to raise these issues, which is simply unacceptable and causes serious damage to the institution.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. our report reflects in detail the work of the committee on petitions over the past year. petitions are the most popular form of democratic action by citizens, alongside voting in elections. we underline the great responsibility of our committee, especially in such difficult times as during the pandemic. we have received and urgently dealt with numerous petitions on covid-19 and on protecting the rights and freedoms of our citizens. every petition was taken seriously. overall, more petitions were submitted by our citizens in 2020 than in previous years, and most of them came from spain and germany. unfortunately, the only way to connect with the applicants was by video. this was a challenge for us, because the right to petition depends on the presence of petitioners in the committee. petitions are therefore an effective tool for all those who want to take an active part in shaping policy. they give us the best overview of how laws work and what needs to be changed. however, it is important to approach petitions and complaints with realistic expectations. unfortunately, we can't help every time, and the question remains, what can we do better? for me, this means above all that there must be a concrete result at the end and not just discussions. we must therefore continue to work on the transparency and the permeability of the whole process. i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for their cooperation and wish them a very merry christmas.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i quote from this deliberations report, ‘calls on the commission to play a more active role in the committee on petitions to ensure the citizens receive a detailed and understandable response’. but has this call has appeared in the deliberations report for the first time? not at all. it is becoming a bad tradition just to mention in the annual report of the committee on petitions (peti) the need for better cooperation between the committee on petitions and the commission. in order to get rid of this tradition, we have to elaborate clear rules on the handling of petitions by the commission, and now the current interinstitutional agreement does not cover petitions. therefore, our proposal is to have a more binding agreement. we regret that this suggestion was rejected during the vote in the committee, and we also did not receive approval from the vice-president’s side, when we spoke beforehand on this. but we are sure that, without such a binding agreement, in future deliberations reports we will just copy and paste the very same problem for many years. such a binding agreement would improve the transparency of the system and its effectiveness towards resolving the issues raised by european citizens in their petitions. the price of ineffectiveness is very big, as we know from brexit, and using this opportunity, i also want to repeat that in this report we speak about the famous article 51, and ask the commission to accept it as broadly as possible.
i would like to begin my speech by referring to what one of your honourable members said and once again denouncing the excessive political hand of the chairman of the committee on petitions, who has repeatedly acted outside the boundaries of the impartiality which he is supposed to exercise, as we have been denouncing from various members of parliament. the agreed text reflects the work done by the committee on petitions in 2020, but at the same time there is a clear public lack of awareness of the scope of the right to petition; therefore, the committee on petitions should adopt a more proactive approach and a more powerful communication strategy. i want to express my concern, as a member of the conference on the future of europe, at the watered-down version of citizen participation that is being offered: a golden opportunity is being missed to launch a genuine bottom-up process to provide greater citizen commitment to the european project. finally, i would like to say that we welcome the fact that the text calls for the european citizens' initiative to be a much more dynamic and attractive mechanism for groups and citizens in general. the stateless nations of europe also need a european framework for the free exercise of the right to decide, with guarantees, the need for a mechanism of clarity at european level, as we presented to a number of members last october.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that greater climate ambition is needed to fight climate change and that the contribution of the transport sector to reducing emissions is unavoidable. but we must not forget that this transition must be fair and, very importantly, it must be perceived by the european citizen as an opportunity. and that's because decarbonising transport is accompanied by increasing its competitiveness and connectivity across all territories. transport is an international sector and climate commitment must be global. that is why the european union must be a leader in the imo and icao. we must prevent the creation of carbon tax havens in third countries where we can continue to pollute without any consequences and to the detriment of many european jobs and businesses. we need to accompany this transition with sufficient financial resources to mitigate the possible adverse impacts, especially among the most vulnerable groups and the most affected regions. an unconditional social climate fund will be indispensable to ensure affordability and accessibility of transport, to boost public transport, including in rural areas, and to encourage the purchase of zero-emission vehicles. our commitment: a socially and territorially responsible green sector in line with the green pact with a red heart that we defend.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, the price of electricity in spain today reaches its historical maximum, 291 euros per megawatt day; gasoline reached in november figures that had not been seen since 2012: currently filling an average tank in spain costs seventy-five euros, fifteen euros more than at the beginning of this year 2021, and, just as a result of the fuel increase, the costs of a carrier in spain this month are eight hundred euros more than last month; and we close this year 2021 with an inflation unprecedented for decades, and that means that citizens have less purchasing power, and obviously there is more poverty in europe, and our citizens must pay much more for transport and for that and must also pay much more for everything they are using, those goods and products they use every day. that is why we in europe have a duty to act to stop this escalation which impoverishes our citizens, and one way of doing so is not to make the situation worse from the european institutions, by ensuring that legislative measures, such as the emissions trading scheme, do not result in additional costs for the energy and transport sectors, which we all pay for. we cannot therefore burden our citizens with the cost of green policies which ultimately end up, at the worst possible moment, in the pockets of our citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i agree with much of what you said. just a year ago we had a debate on our expectations for the european year of the rail and today we have the opportunity to take stock of this european initiative and we can say that it has served to convey to the citizens the advantages of the railway, but also to highlight the challenges that have to be overcome to achieve this longed-for single european railway area. the most tangible initiative of this european year was connecting europe express, a train that travelled through 26 countries, crossed 33 borders and left us with many lessons learned, but also a to-do list to overcome the current lack of interoperability of the trans-european rail network: on its journey, this train had to deal with three different track gauges, use 55 locomotives for the different signalling systems and types of electrical voltage and even change the driver several times. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the transeuropean transport network is a timely one. but we need your help, commissioner, and the commitment of the member states: we need to increase public-private collaboration to invest in infrastructure, to move projects forward and meet deadlines; we need to create incentives for railways to make them more competitive, more attractive and more affordable; we need to make effective use of european funds, next generation eu, in a complementary way to other european funds, such as the edf or the erdf, and we need to focus on a european vision. political will - and cross-border cooperation on projects with high european added value - is needed to promote and continue the implementation of the european rail traffic management system, the european track gauge and the electrification of the network. the european year of railways is coming to an end, but our efforts must remain intact so that the next connecting europe express will serve, as its name suggests, to connect europeans efficiently and quickly.
mr president, commissioner, paradoxically, the european year of the rail has been for some citizens and territories of the european union the year of the dismantling of the railway, and it is that some citizens of some member state, specifically spain, and specifically cuenca, have practically spent all of this year 2021 with a sign like the one i am going to show you at the train stations that says the following, and i read it verbatim: 'until further notice, and due to the poor state of infrastructure resulting from the storms filomena and hortense, the service for the middle distance between cuenca and utiel is suspended'. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the railway safety, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take the initiative in the area of safety. i therefore take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to urge the spanish authorities to rectify and propose a specific and alternative mobility plan for the province of cuenca which does not involve the dismantling of conventional trains, which is the exact opposite of what our commissioner has advocated, namely that this year, the european year of the rail, should be the year of more and better trains.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, ‘me too, yes, also i have been sexually harassed’. these were the words i started my speech with four years ago. when reports of sexual harassment also from inside of this house came to the surface, when millions broke the silence of what had been considered something you just have to be able to deal with beforehand. and yes, me too did change a lot. we now have a completely different conversation from what we had four years ago, but it did not change enough. still, cases of sexual harassment and sexual assault and not taken seriously. still, conviction rates, even of rape, are ridiculously low. and we have a backlash against women’s rights in full swing. and also here in this parliament, our common house of european democracy, issues have been talked down and urgently needed measures have still not been implemented. like, for example, mandatory trainings or a fully independent audit of the situation. the european parliament indeed stands for more than just itself. the fact that the presidents of this house have still not managed to implement all of these reforms is simply a shame. i was told back then that i would damage the reputation of the european parliament if i spoke up too loud and too clear about the problems with sexual harassment and the necessary reforms in this parliament. well, here’s the thing: neither i nor the many women who raised their voices about sexual harassment or were damaging this house; quite the opposite. it is the people who have covered this up. the people who slowed down the process of changing things who are damaging this parliament. but here’s to you. time’s up.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, one in three adult european women has suffered physical or sexual violence and 55% have been the victim of some form of harassment. it is not only women and girls who suffer, but they represent 90% of the victims of sexual harassment and this form of sexist violence limits the lives and violates the rights of women. the fact that 75% of women in skilled occupations have been sexually harassed explains, among other things, the glass ceilings and gender gaps in positions of power and decision-making. the first step to combating harassment is to make it visible, as the thousands of women who joined the "me too" campaign have shown us. and then, we need to act, not victimizing, but offering protection and support to those who suffer. it is important to remember that there is no victim or perpetrator profile in gender-based violence, and that it happens everywhere, including in the parliamentary context: sexism, harassment and violence against women working in parliaments across europe are widespread, and those taking a stand on gender equality and violence suffer particularly. very few victims report it. although some parliaments have complaint procedures or have conducted internal investigations in the wake of the me too, most are grossly inadequate. the european parliament is no exception. the resolution we voted on today is the third since 2017, when the victims began to tell their stories. some insufficient measures have been taken and we therefore call for intensified efforts to prevent sexual harassment, for example through mandatory training, protection of whistleblowers, victims and witnesses from victimization or retaliation, professional mechanisms to support and assist victims of sexual harassment, improvements in the composition of committees responsible for handling complaints of harassment or an independent evaluation of current measures. we are particularly concerned that the victims of sexual harassment are often those in the most vulnerable positions in parliament, including young professionals, trainees, parliamentary assistants and contract staff. we are asking for nothing less than zero tolerance for harassment and the utmost commitment from parliament and the other institutions of the european union. and yet i do not want to overlook the fact that the european people's party has tabled an amendment to try to postpone a simple but effective request: the mandatory nature of anti-harassment training. it shows how little you care about the rights of the women who work in this parliament, your own colleagues. i can't imagine how little they care about the ones outside.
mr president, we have said it in this house: gender-based violence is one of the most serious violations of human rights. it affects fundamental rights and destroys the dignity of women. four years ago, with me too, some very brave women raised their voices to break the silence across the planet and to be able to get us all to work together to end this social scourge. the ombudsman announced a few months ago that she had received thirty-eight complaints between 2010 and 2018 in relation to sexual harassment in european institutions. the credibility of the european institutions therefore requires a firm stance against all forms of gender discrimination. i'm from the popular group. i've done the course. so criticism of the ppe group is pointless at this stage. together and together we are stronger. it is necessary, in this firm position, to focus on prevention and to focus on training. i took that course and i recommend it to everyone, because it creates a safe space and a zero tolerance space against violence and harassment against women. we have to set an example. every day we are here asking citizens to make efforts, citizens to pay their taxes, citizens, in some way, for example, with the pandemic, of one example after another of austerity and one example after another of security. it's time for us to set an example. that's why we need to protect the victims. you have to do the training courses. we must work to make it easy to report, to protect victims, to avoid stigmatization. it is time for this united parliament and all the united institutions to pass this resolution and stand with the 'me too' movement, which means that across the planet silence is being broken. and a special thanks to evelyn for introducing you.
mr president, we know that sexual harassment is like an iceberg of which only the tip is visible and all or most of it is hidden; we also know from the first survey of the european union agency for fundamental rights that, in a single year, one in four citizens has been the victim of sexual harassment, although we should say female citizens, because 90% of us are women. as with gender-based violence, we know the difficulties that victims have in asserting their rights and in speaking up, in telling their story; that is why only a small part of it is brought to light, and in the face of this invisibility of sexual harassment, the institutions of the union must take a firm and clear stance against this problem and make it visible. that is why this resolution is so important, and i also thank mrs regner and my whole group, the socialist group, for having promoted it, because it seeks precisely to facilitate these complaints and to obtain justice, obviously by supporting the people who have been victims; a resolution that we know already joins the one of 2017, but that after the 'me too' movement is gaining much more strength, partly because not enough has been done. we know that in this 'me too' movement it has succeeded in creating a common awareness of the inappropriate behaviour of powerful men, but we need to go further, both in parliament and in the rest of the european institutions, and fight against the sexual abuse and harassment that is often perpetrated by men who are not so famous or so powerful, but who still have that sense of impunity. all women know this, we all have our "me too" more or less, so the message has to be clear: not impunity and zero tolerance; we have to create the institutional channels that allow us to say what they are capable of doing.
mr president, sexual harassment at work is an extremely widespread phenomenon, but it also affects this house. i would remind you that four years ago the women of this parliament took up the cry of 'me too' to denounce also that they had been victims of sexual and occupational harassment in this house. and what have we done four years later? we still owe them a sympathetic and strong response to protect them. we do not yet have compulsory courses for all members of parliament, evelyn regner has reminded us. only a quarter of the members of this house have taken the course, because it is now simply compulsory. we still don't have a professional, independent mechanism to deal with harassment cases, nor do we have an external audit to see whether we're doing things right or not. we owe that to the women of this house, who are still unprotected today because we have not made the decisions we should have. and finally, i want to end with something else: this is a fight that concerns us men in this house as well. again, in today's debate we have only had four men speak and there have been over twenty speeches. two of them will also speak out to say that gender violence does not exist. please, fellas, step forward. this is our fight, too. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, it is becoming increasingly difficult to take this house seriously, every issue we take up, no matter how serious it is, there is always the left and progressive consensus and it ends up becoming a meme, always the same pattern: they locate a problem or invent it, they wrap it in ideology, they turn it into a weapon of confrontation, they forget the reality of the problem and end up taking everything to the absurd; but, as you care nothing about the problem, it actually ends up becoming more serious. today we are being told that all men are harassers, except those who harass european women in certain areas. nothing new here, the same invented war of the sexes, but now we are told that meps have to undergo a mandatory course of feminist re-education in order to perform our duties, that is to say, that the act will no longer be given to us by our voters and citizens, but by a gender commissioner: you are actually an enemy of democracy and an enemy of the unity of the community. forget about me in your re-education courses: i was educated at home, i was educated by my mother.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the european union has a long-standing and clear position on russia’s ‘foreign agents’ law, and we are particularly concerned about the latest case against memorial international and the memorial human rights centre. as many of you have pointed out, memorial is an internationally respected non-governmental organisation and one of the oldest civil society organisations in russia. its activities are central to the defence of human rights, and they serve as a bulwark against attempts to manipulate the historical memory of political repression in the soviet union. but memorial’s work reaches beyond russia and pays tribute to the victims of authoritarian repression and political persecution, past and present, in other regions in europe as well. now the russian authorities are trying to silence it. in these challenging circumstances, ambassadors of the european union member states in russia met with the representatives of memorial to reiterate their solidarity and support. in his statement on 13 november, the high representative / vice-president called upon the russian authorities to reverse legal steps against memorial and stop the unabated crackdown on civil society and independent media in russia. on 25 november, many european diplomats were present at the first hearing in the case regarding the liquidation of memorial international. the current attempts to silence memorial follow months of systematic repression in russia against human rights defenders, against independent media and journalists, against political opposition members and critical voices, as well as religious minority groups. and this move is yet another example of how russia’s ‘foreign agents’ law is used to shrink the space of fully independent activism, to curtail historical scholarship and to suppress critical debates. the european union has repeatedly condemned the russian legislation on foreign agents, and so did the united nations, and so did the council of europe, and so did the organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce). we will continue calling on the russian authorities to repeal existing legislation on foreign agents, and not to proceed with further legislation that breaches russia’s international commitments, as well as to stop the crackdown on civil society and independent media. understanding the atrocities of the past is a value that must enjoy support and protection. the dismantling of memorial would therefore be an irreplaceable loss for the russian people and for europe as a whole. the people of russia, like people everywhere, have the right to speak and to associate freely in defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
author. madam president, commissioner, the epp group will not tire of denouncing the seriousness of the situation facing all cubans, inside and outside the island. we will say this as many times as necessary: once, twice or a hundred times, until the repression, the ill-treatment, the torture, the enforced disappearances, the murders of members of civil society organisations, human rights defenders, artists, journalists, students and simply demonstrators cease completely; until political prisoners are also released and cuba finally embarks on the road to democracy and the rule of law. our debates and resolutions are of the utmost importance, because we, as representatives of the european citizens, are recording their will. i can assure you that europe stands with all the cuban democrats who are suffering under the repression of the dictatorship and that we want it to end. the cuban regime is not only poisonous to those who oppose it within its borders. they're also abroad. the cuban regime insists on exporting its totalitarian and subjugating model to the rest of the region. we have already seen how countries which did not have strong democratic systems have fallen into their clutches. the cuban regime recently hosted a summit of dictators and human rights violators, bringing together, among others, the worst dictatorships in the region to set out its roadmap for the future. the european union is a very strong, prestigious, present international actor which should not shudder at the thought of taking a stand against this barbarity. i would like to ask the high representative today to listen to and implement the will of parliament. we have an agreement with the island that is not respected. we have common principles that are not respected. we have sakharov prizes that are not respected and even feel so abandoned by our institutions that they have not hesitated to propose to return their distinction in protest. that is why we are calling on you today to propose at the next foreign affairs council to activate article 85 (3) of the agreement, which may lead to the suspension of the agreement, and to propose finally sanctions for those responsible for human rights violations.
madam president, the european union stands with the cuban people, but we must do more to help them on their way to democracy. last week the cuban sakharov prize laureates did what no one had done before: they proposed the withdrawal of their award if the european union continues to fail to take concrete action on human rights violations in cuba. the situation in the country is getting worse: more repression, more violations of human rights, more political prisoners and no progress in their commitments under the agreement that we signed five years ago, five years. i have a specific question to the high representative: why is there not a request for a 'special urgency' meeting with cuba as stated in the agreement? it would be a measure to show clearly that we take the commitments of the agreement seriously, that we really want to help and improve the lives of the cuban people. and i ask for a concrete response and concrete action: the cuban people are suffering a lot and they need our support now.
author. madam president, in a covered cell that is being watered from the roof to keep it wet, they are slowly killing the sick and dying political prisoner josé daniel ferrer. in quivican prison is roberto pérez fonseca, 38, sentenced to ten years on false charges. in fact, he, like so many others of the 600 cubans who are imprisoned and who are being sentenced to long prison terms, are imprisoned because they came out on july 11 in a cry for freedom to say, "enough is enough!" and yet, here it was interpreted, by the foreign service that mr. borrell runs, that they were leaving because of the shortage of a number of items that was due to mr. trump's sanctions. we have reached that stage of manipulation here with the obsession of the high representative and his team to defend the narco-communist dictatorships of latin america and, in particular, cuba. so much so that in latin america the european union is already considered an accomplice and a launderer of these dictatorships, and the cuban sakharov prizewinners have said that they would rather return the prizes than see this complicit passivity and this shameful silence on the part of mr borrell and his team and the commission. there's nothing going on, they're not doing anything. i'm going to wish everyone a merry christmas. i really hope that the political prisoners in particular will know that there is hope and that the european union will regain the moral muscle to fight for a free cuba, a free bolivia, a free nicaragua and a free venezuela.
author. madam president, mr. deputy, you who have brought this resolution forward, as good servants of the united states, you bring this resolution on the orders of your boss and as the advanced pupils of goebbels, you repeat the same lies a thousand times, hoping that they will be considered true. in cuba there are no arbitrary arrests, no torture, no disappearances. those who are in prison are in prison for committing crimes, as in any state of law. the only violation of human rights that cuba is suffering from is the more than 60 years of a criminal blockade imposed by the united states and which you do not even mention in your resolution. the cuban government, the fruit of the heroic revolution, places the human being at the centre of political, social and economic action. it doesn't commoditize rights, as it does from this side of the world, especially during the pandemic. this makes cuba an example of respect for human rights, even though your lords are not allowed to admit it. cuba has the lowest infant mortality rate in america. no children sleeping on the streets or dying of hunger, and with their own vaccine they have protected 90 percent of their population: the best vaccination in america and the second best in the world. far from what their bosses tell them to say, cuba is a participatory democracy with deep roots. citizens propose different candidates and in free and secret voting elect their representatives, who each year render accounts in neighbourhood assemblies, which can revoke them if they have lost their trust. this people knows what it is to be the yankee casino, and now that they have their sovereignty and independence in their hands, they will continue to defend it with the cry of "fatherland or death! we will win!" cuba is alive.
the s&d group. madam president, most countries in the world do not live in a democracy. these are regimes that oppress their citizens in a greater or lesser way, which of course restrict public freedoms and fundamental human rights. if we had the same level of debate here as we have with some countries, such as cuba or venezuela, we would very likely not have dates on the calendar to be able to have them, to be able to have those resolutions. then there is, of course, a political question which goes beyond the defence of human rights itself and which explains why we are having this debate again here today and which has to do, in fact, with the political agenda of certain groups and also with the national agenda in some of the countries which are affected by this question more directly. that's all it means. and it also means, of course, that every time we debate here we must reiterate that cuba is a dictatorial regime that needs to move towards democracy, that human rights must be respected. and of course, if we are talking about human rights, we must also talk about the lifting of the blockade, which has produced nothing but more political blockade. let's go with the dialogue. and some, who constantly bring some reflections here, to reflect on whether this is the best way to overcome these sixty years of dictatorship.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment a good friend of mine, josé daniel ferrer, is struggling between life and death in a cuban regime prison, and, like him, hundreds of political prisoners whom the dictatorship wants to bury alive. mr borrell is not here today in this debate, but yesterday he said, speaking about nicaragua, that there were no dictatorships, neither of the left nor of the right, there were simply dictatorships that had to be fought democratically, and i cannot agree more; that is why i do not understand why in the case of cuba it is so difficult for mr borrell to understand this, and not only for him, but also for other members - as we heard a few minutes ago in this very house. in cuban prisons, hundreds of courageous people face death every day for the sole criminal act of defending freedom, defending democracy, defending human dignity and human rights. do not cubans deserve to enjoy the same rights that we demand of ourselves and others here in europe? that is why i ask you all to support this resolution, to support democrats like josé daniel ferrer and to support all those whose release we hope will be swift and whom we are demanding today.
