madam president, the reality is that the canary islands - the archipelago from which i come - the external border of the union, are undergoing an unsustainable migratory pressure. more than 23 000 irregular migrants arrived on its shores in 2020, 856% more than in the previous year. thousands of them have been crowded onto a pier, rehoused in hotels and tourist apartments or wandering the streets destitute. many others cause almost daily altercations - robberies, fights and assaults - and damage the coexistence and image of the archipelago as the best tourist destination in europe. so far this year - in just 19 days - almost 2 000 irregular migrants have arrived in the canary islands. canary is overwhelmed. canary is alone. the spanish government, through negligence, incompetence or both, has abandoned her to her fate. that is why we need the union's solidarity and real and direct support more than ever. first, to save lives and, secondly, to protect the borders of a union in which all its citizens have the same rights, but also the same obligations and responsibilities in relation to immigrants arriving on our continent. only then will europe prove to be a common project of solidarity and of the future.
i have to say, madam president, we have heard a lot about democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, but the catastrophic situation for people on our external borders speaks a very different language. we see violations of the law, denial of basic rights, and we see images of violent pushbacks. and it is intolerable that frontex, an eu agency, should have knowledge of these violations or even be involved in them. yet frontex has been weakened and belittled in many debates. the frontex executive director is therefore partly responsible for these violations. he's delaying the investigation. his continued service is unacceptable. at the same time, however, the frontex management board and the commission must also become much more active as guardians of the treaties. european values must always apply to our citizens and to refugees.
thank you very much, your esteemed chairwoman, mrs. johansson! i would remind you in a short time that on 24 september last year, when you defended the new migration pact in the libe civil affairs committee, of which you are one of the authors, you stressed very emotionally that europe needs migration, europe needs not only even educated labour, but also middle and low-level labour, because we are an ageing population, so we need labour, and with that you are encouraging mass migration, at the edges of the problem and then the leftists are wrong here and crying, but now we need solidarity to redistribute it's not going to pass, it just doesn't work because if you create problems yourself and give a signal to the parliaments of the development and the countries of africa and the middle east to come here, but then we need you, we have obviously border problems, but we have problems here, for example, with the leftists or the maldives, or the people living in the ghettos, or the people living in the inner areas, and we don't really have a problem with socialism, but we have a problem with the people living in the ghettos, or the maldives, and we are in the inner areas. - i'm not going to do it. i'm from sweden and i'm pretty liberal with immigration. but i have to say that when they say that we need immigration and that we need to accept migrants, then i have to say that we don't want to have the same thing as them in sweden. it's not the force i want to use for my barn and for our land. it's not that i don't want to.
rapporteur. – madam president, in addition to the cfsp report and the human rights report, at this plenary session we are also debating and voting on the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp). i believe that every pro-european group in this parliament shares the position that the union must play a major role as a provider of sustainable peace and stability on the european continent and its immediate neighbourhood, as well as beyond, and that we should be a strong promoter and defender of rules—based multilateralism on the global stage. the union’s ability to deliver on these fronts depends on a variety of different factors, but it is inevitable that, in order for our diplomatic, political and humanitarian efforts to bear fruit, we must also be a strong, capable and credible player in the area of defence and security. this involves a greater strategic autonomy and an increased ability to plan and conduct operations without having to rely on external assistance regarding critical enablers and capabilities. but, before getting to the capabilities and strategic autonomy, let me first say a few words regarding the ongoing csdp missions and operations. while the report obviously goes into greater detail regarding individual missions, i would like to share some more general remarks. first, in order for our civilian and military csdp missions and operations to be successful and achieve the long-term goals of producing sustainable stability, it is of paramount importance that they be properly resourced. therefore, let me repeat the call on all the member states to contribute all necessary forces and assets to those csdp missions. let me also stress the importance of a conflict—sensitive and people-centric approach, which puts human security at the core of our engagement. this should go hand in hand with an effective strategic communication strategy that prevents the spread of misinformation and provides adequate and accurate information about our operational goals, as well as broader policy objectives. in several theatres where we are currently engaged, other external actors are also operating. some of them do not share our goals and our value system and in some instances they are actively trying to subvert our efforts. if we want our achievements to be sustainable and if we do not want to see other potentially hostile parties reaping the benefits of our sacrifices, we must also work towards the implementation of the future european peace facility. needless to say, this has to be done with all the necessary safeguards in place. similarly to every other policy area and undertaking of this past year, the csdp missions and operations have also been directly affected by the covid pandemic, which has exposed a number of our vulnerabilities. the lessons learned here must be thoroughly analysed and all the shortcomings must be swiftly addressed. let me now move to the issue of european defence capabilities. i sincerely believe that if we want to achieve strategic autonomy in the area of defence and security, if we truly aspire to technological sovereignty and if we want our defence industries to be competitive, we must also be serious about the need to invest in defence—led research and technology and to address the existing capability shortfalls. we need to enhance the coherence and consistency of the eu’s defence planning and development tools – the european defence fund (edf), the european defence industrial development programme (edidp), permanent structured cooperation (pesco), the coordinated annual review on defence (card) – and we must properly resource capability development initiatives. a failure to do so from the union’s long-term budget is not only regrettable, but it will directly and negatively impact our ability to achieve the ambitions we have set for ourselves. all the member states operate on the principle of a single set of forces so, even with the best cooperative efforts, our collective capability continues to be, to a large extent, the sum of our national capabilities and therefore i believe it’s also imperative that individual member states honour their commitments regarding the defence expenditure. let me stress that a more autonomous european defence capability will in no way be in contradiction with our goal of strengthening our cooperation with other organisations, notably nato. the eu’s quest for greater strategic autonomy is fully compatible with the aim of strengthening eu—nato cooperation and the transatlantic relationship. in addition to our traditional or, if you wish, conventional, capabilities, i would also like to underscore the need to strengthen the european union’s collective resilience to hybrid and cyber threats. this call has a particular urgency since hybrid and cyber operations are increasingly used by our adversaries, both to interfere with the democratic processes in our member states, as well as in our partner countries, and they are also used to undermine our missions and operations abroad. finally, another growing threat to stability and security in the world, including on the european continent, is the gradual weakening and erosion of the global arms control architecture. the non—compliance by certain parties with the existing treaties or the collapsing of those treaties altogether increases unpredictability in the european area and the likelihood of a sudden escalation of tensions and conflicts. to conclude, i would like to express my thanks to the shadow rapporteurs for their contributions to this report and for the constructive spirit in which all the compromise amendments of the final text were negotiated.
madam president, the events we witnessed at the us capitol on 6 january were horrible and reprehensible. they surely do not represent what america is all about, but unfortunately they do represent a danger that continues to lurk, even after the inauguration of the biden—harris administration – and not only in the darker corners of us society, but also here on the european continent. it is the danger of authoritarianism that feeds on untruths and conspiracy theories peddled by power-hungry extremists at home and taken advantage of by our external adversaries. the new administration in washington represents an opportunity to welcome the us back as one of the global leaders in fighting the covid pandemic and in fighting climate change. there are other policy areas – trade, digital technologies – where it takes more time and patience to restore the transatlantic trust and cooperation, but we must welcome this opportunity with open arms because it represents a chance, among other things, to actually score a final victory against populism and authoritarianism.
madam president, the question today is not whether we need to talk to russia. of course we do. the real question today is how we talk and what position we assume when we talk. we need to make sure that we talk with russia from a position of strength and confidence and, above all, moral authority. we must always remember who we are and who it is we are talking to. we are the european union. we are a leading promoter of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the world. we are a leading defender of the rules-based international order. russia is none of these. it is a country that has, only in this century, waged two offensive wars against its neighbours and continues to occupy parts of their territory, a country that routinely violates international agreements, and a regime that violently suppresses political dissent and peaceful demonstrations. it is a regime whose critics have to fear for their lives, both at home and abroad. we should not ignore that, and we must treat russia with the same resoluteness we apply to other regimes with a similar track record. only when our communication with the kremlin is defined by moral clarity, consistency and unity can we expect to be heard and taken seriously. this applies in similar measure to the eu as a whole and to individual member states.
madam president, the european union is facing a very high pressure. the vaccine is the only solution to minimize our health crisis and give us a chance to restore our savings and return to normal. we don't yet have clear answers about the effectiveness of existing mutations, and we don't know if vaccines will be effective against future mutations. it is remarkable how quickly researchers and pharmaceutical companies have discovered vaccines against covid-19. at the same time, they've signed agreements with the european union, and the eu has not only provided financial support for research and vaccine discovery, but has been a fair-play partner with the pharmaceutical industry for the last several decades. it is now time for the pharmaceutical industry to be fair to european citizens and for those companies that have signed a contract with the european commission to honour the contract. we're going to have to invest in increased production, continue to invest in research to have a weapon against mutations. we also have to resist some temptations, like banning the export of vaccines produced in the european union, but also be vigilant, not to allow the vaccine to become a geopolitical weapon, as in the case of sputnik. united and not divided, steadfast and not wavering, united and not selfish, we will succeed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must start from a certain point. the common eu strategy has made it possible, less than a year after the first case of coronavirus was detected in europe, to have a safe vaccine to fight the pandemic in record time and equal access conditions in all member states. does that mean everything's going well? no, but we would be wrong not to recognise the important progress made by europe in recent months, without which we could not today speak of the objective of vaccinating 70% of the adult european population by the summer. the first mass vaccination, with all the problems that entails. i'll take one. in recent weeks, the plan has been badly affected by delays in the production and delivery of vaccines by pharmaceutical companies with which the union has contracts. a serious incident that forces us to act on two fronts. first of all: the transparency of all contracts is a means of enforcing compliance. secondly: the increase in vaccine production. the task force set up by the commission to encourage pharmaceutical companies to cooperate, using industrial facilities already able to contribute to the production effort, is a step in the right direction. but now we need to get some concrete figures and perspectives on this front. in the present situation, there can be no delay or taboo, including the issue of licences, whether voluntary or compulsory. if it is true that we are at war, then take every useful initiative to have the vaccines needed to save lives and get out of this pandemic as soon as possible.
i have to say, madam president, there is no doubt that the corona crisis requires joint solutions. there is no doubt that the member states have benefited most from the joint procurement of vaccines, especially small member states like the one i come from. but the commission and the rest of us have to admit that the course of the last few weeks has certainly not been a pleasant one. i would therefore ask the commission whether it is not time to show a little self-criticism. the president of the commission recently admitted that the challenge of mass producing vaccines should have been tackled much earlier. and i would like to ask: why did it take so long for the commissioner, the commissioner responsible for the internal market, thierry breton, to get involved in this? we would have liked to have seen him on the pitch a little earlier, and you have to ask yourself - and i would like to know - why it hasn't happened. the question is, what could the commission have done differently? i think we should have an answer to that because self-criticism is necessary if we are to make any real progress.
president. - mr borrell's ill-conceived, amateurish visit to moscow is a positive counter to the commission's action on the purchase of vaccines. i'm referring to the soap opera that revolves around the conflict with astrazeneca. the commission went to the streets fighting with a supplier on which we are largely dependent. in fact, the article 16 border regime with the british over ireland was unilaterally terminated, causing an international uproar in passing and seriously damaging the eu's image. but the citizens of europe, who depend on you for their vaccination, want perspective. full vaccination is the only real solution to a normal life. it is a pleasant thought that the commission has ordered enough vaccines to vaccinate everyone, but much more important to know when these orders are being delivered and how many have been delivered.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when we were at the height of the eurozone crisis almost a decade ago, there was a memorable quote. a memorable phrase, spoken by mario draghi, then president of the european central bank, at a conference in london: "whatever it costs". this is the measuring stick, let's get out of the little-little. i am not here to attack the commission, but i am not here to defend it either. i want us to save lives, and that's the discussion that needs to be about. when we talk about mistakes, we talk about mistakes because we have to put them away. of course, it was right that we ordered together in the european union. what else? no reasonable person would have suggested anything else. but yesterday we gave the green light to a $750 billion rebuilding program. 750 billion to re-equip the european union after the damage caused by corona. what are 2.7 billion in the face of a crisis threatening humanity? that was too little and that needs to be corrected. that's why we need to take action now and overturn the tax. we're stuck because we don't have the capacity we need. yes, indeed, it is about europe, but it is also about the global south. only when everyone is safe are we safe. that's why we have to share patents. we must be happy when we work together, when we work together. but we also need to issue licenses so that humanity can overcome this crisis as quickly as possible in the fight against time, in the fight against mutation.
madam president, unfortunately ms von der leyen has already left the chamber, but anyway. first of all, we need to assess the work of the commission in implementing the covid—19 vaccination plans together with other issues on the economic side and foreign policy. we must then assess the responsibility of the president of the european commission when it comes to dealing with these issues. as of monday morning, for example, 3.7 out of 100 people have been vaccinated in germany, 3.6 out of 100 in belgium and 3.1 out of 100 people in france. let us now compare that to the country that left the eu, the uk, with a rate of 17.6 per 100 people. that is five times more than the eu average. in the us the figure is 11.7 and in iceland 5.1 people per 100 inhabitants have been vaccinated. in israel, which is number one in the world, 63 people per 100 people have been vaccinated. the eu has often wanted to see itself as a powerful federation compared to other world powers, however, given this incompetence and confusion, it is an overregulated organism imbued with bureaucracy that is absolutely unable to deal with crises. i’ve often heard how countries are unable to deal with crisis-resolution on their own, and that is why we must all rely on the eu. the fact that the european commission has been given a mandate to pursue vaccines will cause even greater economic damage to the member states. however, in order to solve the economic crisis, the european commission’s ingenious solution is to taking a huge joint debt, the real reason for which is the desire to move toward taxes across the eu. in this case, the question arises as to whether the european commission is enjoying the ongoing crisis, as it is an excuse to offer a solution to the member states, which is the granting of even greater powers to the eu. is it not just a deliberately infected panic where people are being frightened by a virus that is killing everyone, even though we know today that the number of deaths is marginal compared to the total number of people infected? it is no secret that the european parliament and the commission are largely socialist formations, embodying an ideology in which the central government must guarantee unnatural equality and where the nation states should have nothing to moan about. to top it all off, the european commission is also unable to cope with foreign policy, as evidenced by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy going to moscow, making a fool of himself, and allowing the russian foreign minister to mock him, after which the president of european commission fails to make any comments. however, the member states are being told that we are united! we will have a common foreign policy, but our foreign policy will be dictated by germany, france and the spanish socialist josep borrell, who has become detached from reality. in this case, there is no other solution: the president of the commission has to resign.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, all this disinformation and hate speech is not a new issue; it has been developing for years. although some measures have been introduced, such as the east stratcom task force, they have so far been insufficient to counter efficiently the assault on our democracies. after the riots in capitol hill, the ultimate price of allowing disinformation and hatred to spread unchecked online is clear for all of us. finding a balance between limiting harmful content while maintaining freedom of speech might be a challenging task, but it is doable and it must be addressed now. i look forward to this debate, particularly as we now have a concrete opportunity to address these issues through new draft legislation, including the digital services act, which will establish new rules, including on advertising, transparency, illegal content removal and data access. continuing to improve the commission’s code of conduct on disinformation is a necessary step. but we also need to extend our offline safeguards to the online world by limiting the use of targeted advertising and the profiling of users. i welcome the commission’s initiative on online political advertising. we also need to explore ways to promote media literacy skills to increase users’ knowledge. with the gdpr, the eu led the way and set an example. now we need to go further. the digital services act can facilitate the development of our digital economy while protecting fundamental rights and providing increased security from online harms. this is our eu opportunity to lead the way, and i hope that we can do it together with our allies in the united states and beyond.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, high representative, dear colleagues, first, i want to express my full support for the mediation effort launched by council president michel aimed at finding a way out of the political crisis in georgia. secondly, i want to say that even when responding to provocative behaviour those in power must maintain cool heads and not act disproportionately or in a way that further inflames the situation. thirdly, i believe it’s important that the six points the parties signed up to be addressed in a systemic and comprehensive manner, looking beyond the immediate crisis. this applies to the electoral reforms as well as the reform of the judiciary and the judicial appointments. and finally, it is important that the political differences and disagreements be sorted out in the format of democratic parliamentary debate. i call on all my colleagues to impress on their georgian friends and interlocutors from across the political spectrum that they need to engage in a democratic parliamentary process and not sacrifice the legitimate aspirations of georgian people to anyone’s short—term party political interests.
madam president, thank you to the high representative. first of all, i fully agree with the statement made by my good colleague sven mikser. as the chair of the delegation for relations with the south caucasus, i have followed with concern the political polarisation and internal division in georgia. however, today i would like to speak on an optimistic note as i see a clear momentum for a long—awaited political reconciliation. i would like to recognise the visit of the eu council president michel to tbilisi, his personal engagement and the appointment of mr christian danielsson to guide the mediation. this is an important addition and upgrade to the extraordinary work that eu ambassador carl hartzell is doing. it is also a clear signal that the eu does not only make political statements but gets involved if needed. there is no time to lose. i urge all georgia’s political actors to put the interests of their people above party politics and focus on the tasks ahead, including pro—european reforms on democracy and rule of law.
madam president! georgia has for many years been a leader among all the eastern partnership countries in many respects: support for a pro-european and pro-nato course by citizens, the development and level of awareness of civil society, and finally the speed and depth of reforms, including those related to democratic transitions. while the aspirations and aspirations of georgians have not changed, it seems that the commitment of the ruling georgian dream party in this area has decreased significantly. we are witnessing another post-election political crisis with a very similar scenario: the use of administrative tools and pre-election pressure to silence opposition media and arrest important members of opposition parties. of course, government and political crises, lack of cooperation between the ruling coalition and the opposition is normal in any country and we should not be surprised or interfere in this, because it is an internal matter of georgians. however, the arrest of opposition leaders, police raids on party headquarters, and the arrest of people supporting opposition media go far beyond democratic norms, and it is our duty as partners and friends of georgia to sound a loud warning against moving in this direction.
mr president, vice-president of the commission let me join the ranks of the colleagues who have voiced their concern about what is taking place in georgia. we, the european union, cannot tolerate the raiding of the office of the main opposition party and the imprisonment of its chairman. how can we expect the opposition to negotiate if one of the negotiating parties has been put behind bars? finally, the eu must have stronger leverage over bidzina ivanishvili, who is acting as a puppeteer. he’s not leading from behind. he’s leading from behind the curtains.
mr president, dear high representative, recent political developments in georgia are extremely worrying, especially for a country which has privileged ties to the european union. with my experience – that is quite reasonable within the caucus region and even in some respect in the western balkans – i can say that the georgian aspiration to join the european union and even transatlantic engagement is very strong. and so we have to say very clearly: politically motivated arrests are unacceptable. this conduct is completely at odds with the values of freedom and democracy and a further polarisation is not the answer. it is time for the parties to adopt a constructive and solution—oriented approach to the current situation. return to dialogue and find a way to focus on the reforms that matter, especially the rule of law, the judiciary and even electoral rules. i say to all georgians: we don’t give up, we don’t forget you.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, many things have been said, but i would like to answer ms clare daly, who, if i understood correctly, mentioned the case of mr nika melia and suggested that there was a silence on the part of the european union. let me state that there was no silence. on 18 february, my spokesperson issued a statement on the day following the tbilisi city court’s decision of 17 february on the pre-trial detention of mr melia and the resignation of the prime minister, mr gakharia. in this statement, we urged both the authorities and the opposition in georgia to act with restraint and responsibility to avoid further escalation, making a specific reference to the case of mr melia. so, i think this explanation is interesting and useful to explain how things were. then there is the whole debate about the situation in georgia. all of you have been mentioning it. i can only explain, once again, our position and what we can expect in order to try to resolve this difficult situation. we are helping georgia a lot. we are the largest donor in georgia. we have allocated important support to georgia to face the coronavirus pandemic. we hope that, with the mediation efforts launched by president charles michel, we will be more ready to help to resolve the issues involved in the search for a political agreement. we have been talking about it. the main outstanding issues in the political stalemate are the issues of electoral reform, justice reform, perception of a politicised justice, power sharing in parliament and – this is the most difficult issue – the question of early new elections or a possible plebiscite. all of these issues will have to be dealt with during the efforts that we are going to develop with the nomination of this mediator. i hope that this will be useful to resolve the political crisis in georgia.
in writing. a year ago, a consensus was reached between the georgian political parties, which we all welcomed, as internal political battles are detrimental to the country. in the autumn, the georgian people have elected and everyone must respect this, the opposition has its place in parliament, not on the streets, protests do not help the current situation, but only exacerbate tension and increase the spread of coronavirus. the ruling party and the opposition must constructively seek dialogue, sit down at the negotiating table and find a solution, a way out of the situation as soon as possible, as this serves the interests of the country and the georgian people. georgia has announced that it plans to apply for eu membership in 2024. georgia is a very important eastern partner of the eu, but it has to fulfil certain conditions to join the european union. this can be achieved if the ruling and opposition parties manage to agree and work together to implement reforms, contain the covid-19 pandemic and stabilise the economy. it is important that the eu helps georgia's democratic aspirations and its european integration, but this can only happen if georgia is a partner. a year ago, the georgian parties set an example, they managed to reach an agreement that served the interests of the georgian people and the country, and i hope that this time it will be successful.
in writing. – following the recent disturbing events in georgia, i have asked to add this item to the upcoming plenary agenda. the eu stands firmly alongside georgia in supporting its sovereignty and territorial integrity as well as its reform process on the path to realising the european aspirations. unfortunately, the unacceptable arrest of opposition politician nika melia on the basis of politically motivated charges as well as the raiding of opposition party offices has placed georgia on a dangerous trajectory. the use of the force by the government marks a perilous moment for georgian democracy. political prisoners and attacks on party headquarters are not acceptable in democratic societies and neither is the pervasive influence of the oligarchs through hidden networks. the only way forward is a broad and committed de-escalation of the situation and facilitation of the conditions for peaceful negotiations before the point of no-return. i call for both sides to respect the commitment to the political dialogue which was relaunched together with president of the european council charles michel. from our side, we must ensure that eu the acts as a good and honest moderator and that georgia can continue its path of european and euro-atlantic integration.
in writing. – i commend the people of georgia for all the progress they have made over the last thirty years. georgia’s post-soviet transition was a very difficult and tumultuous one, as we well know, facing both internal problems and foreign aggression. despite all these, georgia managed to keep on the european path of reform and modernisation. regarding ongoing developments, it is indeed a worrying moment for georgian democracy. keeping in mind the negative recent and current developments in the south caucasus, eu support and guidance is extremely needed at this time. i salute council president michel’s recent mediation in tbilisi and the creation of the position of special envoy who’s aim is to facilitate dialogue between government and opposition and resolve the current crisis. all these measures, together with the debate we are having here today, clearly show georgia’s importance for its eu partners. i wish the best of luck, both to our representatives and to the political negotiators within georgia in finding a solution to this stalemate which, if continued, will harm georgia’s democracy, its relations with the eu and the association agreement and make it more vulnerable to other threats.
in writing. following the arrest of nikanor melia, the chairman of the united national movement, the largest opposition party in georgia, the political polarization in the country has unfortunately deepened. the political situation in the country has been a cause of serious concern in recent months and political polarization is increasing. the current situation may undermine georgia's democracy. georgia has been and remains the european union's main associated partner. georgia and the eu have jointly established an association agreement, which has led to close political cooperation and economic integration. it is important that the georgian parties themselves contribute and engage in dialogue. only with the full participation and contribution of all parties can a compromise be reached. the georgian opposition also has an important role to play in strengthening democracy and the rule of law. the government of georgia is expected to provide inclusive leadership, putting the interests of the georgian people first. provocative actions and rhetoric must be discarded. the people don't have to live in the midst of a constant political crisis. the political decision-makers of georgia owe it to the georgian people to provide a stable and secure political environment in which the country can focus on recovering from the covid-19 pandemic, contribute to international cooperation and become a party to the association agreement with the european union.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, dear members of the european parliament, the conflict in syria has lasted now 10 years. ten years of tragedy for the people of syria; displacement, exile, poverty, destruction, torture, enforced disappearances, barrel bombs, chemical weapons. we thought that we would never need to see this again at our doorstep. five countries have soldiers in syria at this moment, but even with the military support of russia and iran, assad cannot win and only a political solution is sustainable. and yet the political process set out by the united nations security council in its resolution 2254 is stuck, completely stuck. a constitutional committee has been set up to negotiate a new constitution, providing the basis for free and fair elections supervised by the united nations. but the assad regime blocks any real discussion and does not want free and fair elections. instead, in june, assad will hold his own elections to make sure he wins, to convey that syria is at peace, that reconstruction should begin and sanctions be lifted, and that we should recognise that he won. nothing else would be a bigger mistake. peace is not won by crushing the people, by crushing opposition and pursuing a war until the country, the whole country, is on its knees. in syria, over 500 000 people have died. the economy is literally collapsing. more than half of the population have fled their homes. in northern syria today, hundreds of thousands live in tents. the pandemic has exacerbated the challenges. latest data suggests the poverty rate stands at 80% and 12 million syrians, nearly 60% of the population, are severely hit by food insecurity. all this is happening on our borders, in our immediate neighbourhood, on the other side of the mediterranean. we should not and we cannot and we will not allow syria to be forgotten. on 13 march i will co—chair with the united nations a fifth brussels conference on the future of syria and the region. we must give the united nations and its special envoy, mr pedersen, our full support and continue to push for a genuine political solution, according to the united nations security council resolution. the political process has to move forward with a new negotiated constitution, free and fair elections, release of political prisoners. the eu is ready to provide its support and, once the time is right, to focus on reconstruction funds and the rebuilding of syria and of the lives of its citizens. we are ready to provide very substantial support but business as usual is not an option. we demand a safe syria for refugees to return to their homes and a real search for the missing. the commission is calling for the creation of an international mechanism to locate the missing – or their remains, some in mass graves – accountability for the many war crimes and crimes against humanity and the impunity and until we see this, we must keep up the pressure. there will be no end to sanctions, no normalisation, no support for reconstruction until a political transition is underway. this must be the message from the brussels conference. we must keep providing assistance to the syrian people in need, both in syria and in neighbouring countries, in particular in jordan, lebanon and turkey, which host millions of refugees. these people deserve our continued support. in 10 years, the european union and its member states, have provided 22 billion. it means on average 2.2 billion every year in assistance for needs inside syria, in support of refugees and in support of refugee hosting countries. we are the biggest donor and we will continue showing our solidarity. the support of this parliament to these efforts has been and remains crucial. the needs are immense and we will call on other donors to provide support too because we cannot do everything. and, of course, we will continue engaging with civil society. their voice is crucial to fully understand what’s happening and what is needed to bring hope for the future, for a peaceful and different syria. we cannot let them down, we cannot give up. thank you for your interest and i count on your full support.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european union is not a member of the wto. it is no longer customary to use the word "war". it is often referred to simply as "armed conflict". but if we talk about what has been going on in syria for the last ten years, then it is war. and when we talk about war, we have to be aware that for some people in this world, this is not a gray theory, but a daily, bloody reality for children, women and people affected by this decade-long war in syria. when we talk about migration and flight, we talk a lot about the effects on our external borders of the european union, within the european union, but we still talk too little about the causes of flight, about the uprooting of people in their home countries. and that's because of the war in syria for the last ten years. if we are talking about the role of the european union, then we must talk about what you have done, mr high representative, that we, as the european union, are the biggest donor. with 22 billion euros in these ten years of war, the european union has helped also in its own interest. this is not a mere gift, and the european union is playing a better role than iran or turkey or russia, for example, which are involved in this war. but we must also ask the question of the role of the european union: how does europe develop more strength externally? and we must answer that question, and you, high representative, can answer it at the syria conference in brussels on 30 march. i urge you to do so.
on behalf of the ecr group. – [start of speech off-microphone] outbreak of the war in syria, we see devastating, breathtaking results of this conflict. you described them well and precisely, high representative. allow me one remark. all of us wish for a political solution to this awful, devastating conflict. we supported defeating daesh and now support a political solution. yet there is one aspect: al-assad’s regime is allegedly responsible for committing war crimes and crimes against humanity, including numerous uses of chemical weapons and atrocities against his own society. no dirty bargain with this regime should be possible. we have to ensure that no genocide remains unpunished. it is our role, the eu’s role as well.
mr president, we condemn the new deadly bombing of the united states in syria, and by the biden administration. those with olive branches who spread illusions of peace under biden's presidency were exposed. this attack confirms the united states' steadfast pursuit of continued interventions and wars in syria and the wider region amid fierce rivalries with russia and china. the european union is also taking part in the european council in brussels, which is a very important meeting of the european council, and we are also very much in favour of the european council in brussels. ten years since the beginning of their imperialist intervention, the us, nato, the european union, using both the invasion of turkey and the repugnant isis, have been shedding blood on the syrian people, who have been persecuted and have experienced the largest wave of refugees since the second world war. the commission is therefore proposing that the council of ministers should take a decision on the matter, and that the council should be given the opportunity to make its views known.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the syrian civil war, a 10-year-old unresolved armed conflict, is a humanitarian crisis right on the doorstep of europe. the civil war is not only affecting syria, but also threatening the stability of the surrounding countries. refugee resettlement, economic recession and security challenges are all major challenges, particularly for lebanon and jordan. the bloodshed in syria has been a huge sacrifice for many, including the christian communities that have lived in the area for thousands of years. during my fact-finding visits, i have seen firsthand how these communities, in the ruined houses of aleppo, homs, damascus, are working with their hands to provide the simplest conditions of life. one of the most urgent tasks right now in all of syria is to organize education. nearly three million syrian children are out of school. young people who are out of education, without a vision of the future, are vulnerable to the temptation of radical islamist ideologies, and so managing their situation is a security issue. we must think of those who volunteer to return to their homeland. for them, basic infrastructure, drinking water, schools, health care, is a matter of life and death. the eu cannot leave them alone either.
mr president, yes, i agree with mr high representative, horrible statistics speak for themselves. more than half a million dead, seven million internally displaced and 5.6 million forced to flee their country; 80% of the population live in poverty, 500 000 children are suffering from the effects of stunting. this is a tragic summary of the biggest humanitarian crisis in our neighbourhood after 10 years. syria became a meeting point of particular involvements, different conflicts and geopolitical interests challenging the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the syrian state. the most urgent action to take, and prediction for any peaceful solution, is an immediate and permanent ceasefire and the withdrawal of foreign forces from syrian territory, while fully supporting the un-led geneva negotiation process. the eu should also play a more proactive role. we need to help the ones needing protection, adopt new sanctions under the eu global human rights sanctions regime. the syrian people cannot and should not wait any longer.
mr president, mr borrell, syria has become a forgotten crisis. it’s easy to forget the joyous outpouring of democratic activism and hope in march 2011, and it’s easy to forget that most syrians are horrified to be caught between, on the one hand, the brutal assad regime and on the other hand, by the adherence of jihad. and it’s easy to forget the horror we feel around chemical attacks, around a drowned child lying on a beach, around the hundreds of thousands that have been killed, those that have been tortured and mutilated and detained to this day. and it is only in these circumstances of indifference that russia could coldly veto a humanitarian access security council resolution. non-renewal of this resolution could have devastating impacts on the three million people currently living in idlib when that comes up for review in july. i pushed for this resolution and debate because i believe that we cannot forget this tragic anniversary and we cannot ignore the impending russian veto. i also wanted to draw attention to the demands for justice for those who have been victims of these crimes. at a seminar last week, people that are involved in the coblenz trial told us that the eu is their best and last hope for justice. so i call upon you, vp/hr borrell to prepare an action plan on impunity and i also urge you to appoint an eu representative, a special representative, to the syrian conflict. they say that justice delayed is justice denied. but even if it takes another decade to bring perpetrators to justice, we the eu must not forget and we must accept that without justice, there is no sustained peace.
mr. chairman, mr. borrell, it is a pleasure to be here. i speak my native language as a representative of my nation. first of all, i'm very sorry, of course, for all the people who have had to flee syria because of the civil war. a country that has become a typical middle eastern battleground for several major powers, with the interests of russia, turkey and the united states at stake. and so, of course, we have to help the real refugees, who are fleeing war and death. but under international law, refugee status is only conditional and temporary, until the war is over and there is peace in their home country. and so it was very interesting to me to see a week ago how the danish minister of immigration from the socialist party set a very good example for other socialists in europe as well, saying that damascus is now safe enough for syrians to return to their homeland, where they should go to build their country.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the proclamation of the eu as an area of lgbtiq freedom (2021/2557 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. as in previous sessions, the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states will also be responsible for remote assistance.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner dalli, thank you for the invitation to this debate on the declaration of the eu as an lgbtiq freedom zone. this subject is essential to so many of our citizens who suffer discrimination and hatred because of their sexual orientation. let me be very clear from the start: there should be no place for homophobia anywhere in europe. sexual orientation and gender identity are aspects of who we are, and no one should feel the need to conceal their true selves in order to avoid discrimination, hate or even violence. in recent decades, progress has been made on lgbtiq rights, but more remains to be done. unfortunately, discrimination against lgbtiq persons persists when they look for housing, when they seek health care or social services, and also at work or in school. all citizens of our union are equal and should be able to live in freedom, safe from discrimination based on their sex, race, colour, religion or sexual orientation. these are principles and values solemnly enshrined in the eu treaties, the charter of fundamental rights and eu legislation. they are not up for negotiation. our common european commitment to decency, tolerance and equal treatment is the very foundation of the idea of a just society. the eu, imperfect as it is, is still a beacon of hope for many across the globe. we must make sure that the example we set is a good one. this means building a society where our citizens feel free to be who they are, and to enjoy equal opportunities, participate fully and contribute and prosper in our society. the most recent survey of the agency for fundamental rights has shown that as many as 43 percent lgbtiq persons feel discriminated against. one in ten lgbtiq respondents were physically or sexually attacked, and transgender and intersex respondents experienced attacks at a higher rate. what makes matters even worse is the fact that most of this injustice goes unreported. overall, across the eu, only 11% of the discrimination suffered and only a small percentage of hate–driven incidents are reported. europe still has a long way to go before real equality is achieved. the covid—19 crisis has had a disproportionate impact on more vulnerable groups, including lgbtiq community, leading to more inequalities and violence. the portuguese presidency attaches great importance to the inclusion of lgbtiq persons in our society and will not spare its efforts in pursuing that goal. we count on the measures announced by the commission in the first—ever strategy on lgbtiq equality presented last november, and which was discussed last december. next week, the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) ministers will be invited to debate legislative and political measures to ensure concrete progress towards equality, non—discrimination and diversity in the eu and its member states. where appropriate, we will continue to discuss matters in the framework of the annual rule of law mechanism. we would like to see equality becoming a reality, for example in rainbow families, who can face difficulties and hurdles when seeking to exercise their right to freedom of movement within the eu. the presidency is planning to organise an event on may 14 to commemorate the international day against homophobia, transphobia and biphobia. we acknowledge the initiative to declare the eu an lgbtiq freedom zone. let us continue to work together towards this goal by doing everything we can to protect persons from being discriminated against because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, and to ensure across europe that they can enjoy equality in their daily lives.
member of the commission. – mr president, allow me to dedicate this debate to benjamin, my first grandson, born two hours ago. dear benjamin, may you live in a hate—free europe. may you live in a humane europe, and may you live in a europe where you will have the best chance in life to be all that you can be. (applause) i am really grateful for this debate and opportunity to speak to you about lgbtiq people’s rights and freedoms. the commission welcomes and supports the european parliament’s intention to declare the eu an lgbtiq freedom zone. during her state of the union address in september 2020, president ursula von der leyen stated in this house that she would not rest when it comes to building a union of equality, a union where you can be who you are and love who you want without fear of recrimination or discrimination. i share your vision of a european union where lgbtiq people are fully free to be themselves throughout the course of their life without exception, where they can love who they want and build their families without other considerations, such as their fear of negative reactions from loved ones or societal discrimination, and where no considerations related to societal attitudes or administrative burdens enter into the equation of whether to move freely to another eu country or not. this is not reality yet, but we intend to get there. right now, many european citizens are deprived of their full set of freedoms. in some eu countries, lgbtiq people have come under increasing attack by politicians, religious leaders and other public figures. this has led to increased scapegoating of lgbtiq persons, who are, for instance, framed as a threat to children. the eu must be a freedom zone for all of us, without exception. this is why the commission adopted the first ever lgbtiq equality strategy last november. our strategy aims to ensure that lgbtiq people are safe and have equal opportunities to participate fully in society and thus reach their full potential. the commission has started implementing this new strategy to guarantee that each measure included in it will materialise in the coming five years. the commission shares your vision of an eu where people in all their diversity, and regardless of their personal characteristics, live together in harmony. where they are free to pursue their life regardless of their sexual orientation, their gender identity, their gender expression or their sex characteristics. where they are equal, be they lesbian, gay, bisexual, heterosexual, trans, non—binary, cisgender, intersex or queer. as part of this work, the situation in all member states will continue to be monitored closely to make sure that the principle of non—discrimination is fully respected when implementing eu law and eu—funded projects. one of the main messages of the commission’s lgbtiq strategy is that lgbtiq discrimination needs to be addressed at all levels and that progress depends on all stakeholders working together. i thank the european parliament for its commitment to making the eu’s shared values of equality and freedom a reality for all. together, we can break down barriers to lgbtiq equality.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, being here today is important. telling people that they are not alone is important. i am a mother of four. i have been able to be married to my husband for 15 years. i am a christian democrat and a proud southern european woman. tradition is something i respect and so are our values, all our values. we’ve just marked women’s day, and as a woman, i understand the importance of having allies in a struggle and of being an ally. this is not about one community versus another. it is about all of us moving forward together, and we cannot move forward when so many are left behind. so today we are here to tell all those in the lgbtiq community that this is your europe too. to tell all those parents who are worried about the safety of their lgbtiq children that we have their back. to tell every girl and boy that in this europe you can be whoever you want to be, wherever you want to be, and our union, this house, will protect that right. to tell those struggling that you do not have to adjust yourself to injustice. to tell abusers both offline and online that you will not find safe haven here, that our laws will protect those you seek to destroy. to tell everyone in poland and beyond that we hear you, that europe stands for freedom – freedom to live as you wish to live, freedom to love who you wish to love, freedom to be who you wish to be – and that there is not one state, not one town, not one village in our union where this freedom will not be defended, because this is who we are. this is a freedom zone.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam commissioner, fear, violence and discrimination remain a reality faced by many lgbtq people in much of the world, even in those countries and regions that we still consider to be at the forefront. there are still 70 countries that criminalize same-sex relations and 12 of those countries may even apply the death penalty. in the european union, the areas free of lgbtqi ideology, promoted by the polish far right, are a reminder of the barbarity of our past. the protection of the rights of lgbtq people is the responsibility of all public institutions. after ten years, how much longer do we have to wait for the directive on equal treatment beyond the workplace to be adopted? despite the inexcusable delay, there is light on the horizon. the first strategy for equality for lgbtq people in the european union, presented last november, is a firm response by the european commission to the backsliding of rights and freedoms in poland and hungary. we now have the obligation to implement, together with the member states and as a matter of urgency, the package of legal and financial measures envisaged for the next five years. with this strategy we are demonstrating that we are capable of moving towards a european union which is not only built on open borders or a common market, but also on the same fundamental rights and values for all citizens, which all member states are obliged to respect. under no circumstances will we accept the harassment and criminalization of the homophobic crusade, led by the far-right forces in poland and hungary. mr kaczyński, mr orbán, no ideology justifies the placing of signs with messages in different languages which encourage discrimination against sexual identities. the only thing that is a threat to human rights is the ideology of hatred and intolerance. we will never again live in a europe which forces its citizens to hide from anything and everyone. our treaties guarantee that all people in the european union are free to be who they are, to live where they want to live and to love whom they want to love. the brutal murder of a gay man in the belgian municipality of beveren reminds us that equality and non-discrimination must be defended every day. with the declaration of the european union as a free zone for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people, we want to take a step further to ensure that no one is persecuted in any corner of the european union for their sexual orientation. let us unite against hate and raise our voices for the right of all men and women to live free and equal in dignity and rights.
on behalf of the group id. mr president of the court of justice! honourable representative of the council of the european union, honourable representative of the european commission. first of all, as far as i know, in none of the 27 member states of the european union is your sexual orientation punishable. it doesn't matter if you're a lesbian, gay, transgender or any of the other 60 sexual commandments. you're not forbidden to love anyone you want, you're not forbidden to live with anyone. what we're seeing here is pure propaganda. it's just propaganda that some country prefers to value traditional family values and really does not allow, for example, kindergarten to teach sexual ideologies to two-year-olds, which is also funded by the european union budget. and it is now for these ideologues in this very room, when we talk about the extreme left or the extreme liberal, it is for them a terrible crime that some member states are committing, and i cannot agree with that absolutely. and as for the whole lgbtq issue, it all comes down to the question of what is the definition of marriage and family policy. and i basically refuse to agree with those who say that it makes no difference what environment a child grows up in. is it better to have a child who is not asked where you want to be adopted, whether you want to grow up with a mother and a father or with other parents, but everything is based on pure, blindfolded, some kind of ideology that lacks any rational arguments and facts, and says that everyone is equal. and that's why i'm all for families where children have the right to grow up safe with a mother and a father and all the rest of them, to do whatever they want, to live with whoever they want. i don't care about that, and i don't have to. thank you very much and may there be safe families with mothers, fathers and children.
madam president, with the european vaccination campaign progressing in our countries, we can begin to regain mobility and therefore one of the fundamental pillars of the union: the free movement of people. that is why we welcome the proposal for a single european instrument to facilitate travel between member states. not only so that citizens can see their loved ones again, but also so that they can enjoy a few days of rest or leisure in complete safety. because let's not forget: tourism is as important to economies as it is to tourists. we must approve the urgency procedure proposed by the commission tomorrow, yes or yes. ladies and gentlemen, the public will not understand that this parliament is delaying the process and that we are finally ending up with twenty-seven national documents in total confusion. the spanish socialist delegation will therefore support the urgency procedure proposed by the commission tomorrow. we are naturally in favour of the green certificate, whether in digital or paper form, being valid throughout the union. and that, moreover, it must be free, accessible, safe and reliable and, above all, non-discriminatory. therefore, the certificate can only collect the necessary data related to the three possible options: vaccination, negative pcr or immunity test for having passed covid, and ensure that it cannot be used for other purposes. ladies and gentlemen, let us vote yes tomorrow and give our citizens a little hope, a little european hope.
madam president, people are desperate to regain their freedom. today we see decisions for more lockdowns. so we do need to adopt these certificates quickly before the summer break and this parliament will work fast and deliver. but the certificates are not enough. we need three more things and that’s vaccination, vaccination, vaccination! ms von der leyen’s v-day is now three months ago and where do we stand? it’s simply not possible to explain to people why we have still not advanced with vaccination. and if we ask people to make an almost inhuman sacrifice in their freedom, the national governments have to make a superhuman effort to make sure that vaccines are available. now on the certificate, it must be temporary, absolutely non-discriminatory and there must be a guarantee that no data will be stored. in this respect, i have a question to the commission because the americans do collect the data of eu citizens and they store them for two years. i know the commission is in talks with the us. i would like to get a bit more transparency on that.
madam president, first of all i would like to focus on this green passport for the china virus vaccine. i would like to just ask, have you ever wondered in the commission the fact that we already have a passport for vaccines, the yellow one? most of us should really well know it and even i have it, like i think it’s here and i got my vaccine against the china virus about three weeks ago. it’s already written there that i got my vaccine, but it doesn’t really give any good habit for me because i still have to walk with a mask outside, alone in the park. i have to wear a mask here also, it doesn’t really give a benefit. so the question is, do you have any plan about what it really gives you when you are vaccinated? which kind of freedoms will you get? and what’s the problem with the yellow passports that we already have internationally? all the countries are recognising that and we don’t have to build a bicycle from zero. the second topic i would really like to mention is how are you going to protect against discrimination? because already this morning i read the news that even in estonia, in my own country, one of the biggest private companies will fire people if they will not accept the vaccination. it’s a really serious question because it has to be on free will. i’m very supportive of technology, the vaccines, i really believe that they will help, but at same time i’m just protecting very strongly the freedom of the vaccinations. you have to have a freedom to choose, do we want it or not, and we know very well that most of the people they still want it, but we can’t make it mandatory that you have to get vaccination and it’s a really important topic.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. ladies and gentlemen, i will start with the european data strategy, which is an important step towards better data exchange, data use and data reuse. and we have to remember that we're not losing the individual in the data, the real person, in whose interest we want to make better decisions based on the data. how do you stand up for an individual? first, the interests of the individual must be taken into account and this must be done in accordance with the values, fundamental rights and rules of the european union. second, absolute compliance with the general data protection regulation and e-privacy legislation is and must remain the cornerstone of the data strategy. and third, individuals must be given the best opportunities to exercise their rights, starting with data literacy and ending with the ability to make informed decisions about their data. finally, i would like to comment on the application of the general data protection regulation. it has been successful, it has become the international standard for personal data protection. but there are also bottlenecks, such as in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as in the financing and staffing of supervisory authorities. these are the issues that we need to pay more attention to if we want the gdpr to work 100%. thank you for your attention!
mr. president, i have to ask you... it is hopeful that the tension on the eastern border of ukraine has eased. i am confident that progress can be made in the normandy format, because, in accordance with the minsk agreements, a peaceful settlement is the only correct solution. the conflict can only be resolved through political dialogue. hungary stands for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine and is aware of the difficulties faced by ukraine, which is why it has been helping for years to resolve the economic and humanitarian situation arising from the conflict in eastern ukraine and to combat the coronavirus pandemic. despite this, ukraine does not provide proportionate respect for the transcarpathian hungarian community. they are constantly restricting their language and educational rights, they are not involving their representatives in decision-making, and their leaders are being intimidated, and they are being stigmatized on the mirotvorec website, as am i. and the minority and dual citizenship laws can be a disadvantage. hungary is ready for constructive dialogue with kiev to find a solution that satisfies all parties involved. in accordance with ukraine's international and bilateral commitments, it guarantees the rights and security of the hungarian community.
madam president, it’s easy to conclude that our relations with russia are at a very low point. the debate today tackles three problems, but the list of our pending issues with russia is much longer. even though the circumstances have changed since last week, the fact is that russia was piling up military in an illegally occupied territory, while still not cooperating within osce mechanisms. alexei navalny did stop his hunger strike, but he’s still imprisoned. the attacks on his life and freedom illustrate the shrinking space for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, while the human rights situation in russia is deteriorating on an unprecedented scale. illegal activities in czechia are a stark reminder of how far russian interference goes. we have to adopt a new substantial and comprehensive strategy towards russia. we should not keep falling into a political trap, thus further narrowing the space for our political actions, but rather strengthen our common foreign and security policy. energy over-dependence, divergent policies among member states, direct interference in political processes, and russia’s very active role in disinformation campaigns should be on our to—do list. prevailing particular interests are only a great opportunity for russia to impose further leverage. therefore, we should re-examine the added value of the ongoing policies and projects that undermine the strategic autonomy of the european union as a whole.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, the case of the czech vrbětci evokes memories of the cold war. russian intelligence services operating on czech territory, violating the sovereignty of our country. two citizens of the czech republic will lose their lives in this act of state terrorism. the difference i feel today is that the czech republic is not alone. today's debate and resolution are clear evidence of that. as well as all the expressions of solidarity and actions of individual countries that stood united for the czech republic. and i would like to thank them as much as i would like to thank you here today as a citizen of the czech republic! on the table today is a strong text, which is a reaction not only to the czech case, but also to the deteriorating health of leader alexei navalny and to the military maneuvers on the border with ukraine. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. but to move beyond words to action, mr vice-president of the commission. we must act, and we must act together: to extend sanctions on the oligarchs, to freeze their accounts in europe, to confront the hybrid war that russia is waging with us, and last but not least, to change our outdated strategy towards russia. it's time to act, mr vice-president of the commission.
i have to say, madam president, the recent troop movements on the russian-ukrainian border are certainly disturbing. we all agree that military conflict in the donbass must be prevented. we all want peace! not only within the european union, but also, of course, with our european neighbours, right on our doorstep. the eu likes to see itself as a peace project and throughout its history it has undoubtedly contributed to the pacification of the countries of europe. it is economic cooperation that has brought peace and stability to our ranks in recent decades, and that was the historic idea of the founders. but the eu of today, the eu of mrs von der leyen, mr michels and also mr borrell, is unfortunately no longer a peacemaker in its often very one-sided and insensitive actions. brussels should be as neutral and as mediating an actor as possible. it is not acceptable, of course, to question existing borders and to threaten - at least indirectly - with military force. of course, the eu should also be as clear as possible. but it is not wise to take a too one-sided position, nor to try to rattle a sword that does not exist in brussels. the eu has a tendency to intervene rather clumsily and unskillfully in conflicts to which it can make no real contribution. it should instead focus more on its core competencies. it is not a foreign policy power, certainly not a military power, and it must never become one. foreign and security policy is and remains a matter for national governments and - i say this as a german - our defence alliance, namely nato, not the eu. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the eu has no right to interfere in the internal affairs of third countries. it is true that it has a duty to speak out clearly and unambiguously when its member countries are attacked by third countries. there are strong indications that russian intelligence was behind the 2014 bombing of the munitions depot in the czech republic. this is a serious attack on the sovereignty and integrity of the czech republic. our full solidarity goes to the czechs here; the eu cannot and must not remain silent on this. it is quite clear that sanctions, provocation and isolation will not help. all sides must remain in dialogue. only this dialogue, a balancing of all interests, can ensure lasting peace and stability.
madam president, i would say to the high representative that the eu has no russia policy. at best, it has a schizophrenic one. on the one hand, the eu limits itself to verbal condemnations of russia’s serial aggressions and violations. it offers moral comfort but it has no impact. this policy is full of hypocrisy. on the other hand, the eu refuses imposing meaningful sanctions and continues business as usual. how many aggressions, frozen conflicts, murders and poisonings do we need before we wake up? the eu is capable to stop russian aggression by heavy sanctions, like the exclusion of russia from the swift financial system. the will is lacking. limiting itself to purely verbal bashing, which pleases the kremlin and strengthens it in the view of its electorate, we are in fact a paper tiger. the name of the elephant in the room is nord stream 2. even not yet completed, nord stream 2 is paralysing the eu’s foreign and security policy, making it toothless and impotent. the eu’s foreign and security policy is already a hostage to nord stream 2 and its victim.
the honorable chairman of the session. we're talking about russian behavior today, which, especially recently, has been provocative, unpredictable, and hostile, but not surprising. russia is consistently violating international law and we'll see what happens if and how the european union responds. i believe you experienced this in person at your meeting with foreign minister lavrov, and the whole world saw russia's attitude to the european union and democracy at the press conference that followed the meeting. it was unacceptable, it was ugly, it was humiliating. today, one of us, the czech republic, is asking the european union for support and solidarity in responding to russia's flagrant behaviour. it is asking for support not just in words but in deeds, as britain, the netherlands and estonia once did in 2007. i am looking at you, mr high representative, but also at all the member states. it is our duty to support the czech republic, to do so with a straight back, decisively and together, because we are also defending our common values and principles. the strength of the european union lies in its unity. let's not let russia divide us and laugh at us.
madam president, it is regrettable that the response to the russian terrorist attack in czechia has remained the sole responsibility of the member states. moreover, two eu member states whose companies are shareholders in nord stream 2 are standing for continuous cooperation with russia. all this happens as russia introduces the concept of so-called ‘unfriendly states’. once eu solidarity with czechia fails, we should not continue to deceive ourselves about the eu’s growing influence in foreign affairs and its role as a global player. regarding russia’s actions in ukraine, the eu must focus on strengthening ukraine’s economic and defence potential by developing eu and ukraine cooperation in the field of defence and security and boosting ukraine’s confidence based on a vibrant civil society and democratic principles. dear colleagues, as we speak, the alexei navalny graffiti mural in st petersburg is being painted over – just four hours. putin’s regime knows how to murder people and opponents and erase history, and we see the real face of the kremlin of today.
madam president, russia is an issue that always evokes emotions and emotionality is the greatest enemy of rationality. firstly, the nature of russia has not changed much in the last few hundred years. russia has been a major player in the big game globally and this is what they want also today, strengthening their positions through geopolitics. they will do this also through soft power, that is through economic policy and by influencing the domestic policies of their neighbours. if that is not enough, they are also prepared to use military force. in the early ‘90s western liberal democracy typically mistakenly thought that communist ideology and russia’s ambitions to be the world’s leading military force were history. unfortunately, the war in georgia, ukraine, the annexation of crimea, or even the constant provocative airborne violations in the airspace of finland, sweden or estonia have proved the opposite. russian power is no longer classically communist, but instead we have communist representatives even in this chamber, unfortunately. but what has not changed, and will not change in the foreseeable future in our lifetime, is russia’s desire to be a great power geopolitically and even with military force. we’re also talking about europe. old europe is like an older person who wants to enjoy a good, comfortable life and wants to avoid possible conflicts at all costs. unfortunately this wish for a good life at all costs ends sooner or later, very painfully. there has not been a major military conflict in europe over the last 75 years. the last three generations have been able to live comfortably. and today we have reached a point where the european union is dealing with absurd problems also – equality in all areas, the utopian green deal or welcoming all the people from all over the world. if life is too good a person will start inventing new problems to solve. unfortunately, this only weakens europe in a world where there are still military forces that are not interested in european parliament resolutions and hard words, but in how strong the adversary is. today’s europe is weak and doesn’t seem to want to be stronger. if we wanted to, europe would start thinking today about our defence capabilities and the dangers that lurk in our relations with russia. we don’t need any hysteria or panic when we talk about russia. we need a rational and pragmatic attitude based on a balance of power, so that both parties respect the other. a strong state never respects a weak state and doesn’t have to. si vis pacem, para bellum, as the classics have said.
madam president, putin’s crackdown on any internal dissent, russia’s ongoing military adventures in its immediate neighbourhood, and constant attempts by russian operatives to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign countries, including eu member states – these are all elements of a broader policy of trying to strengthen the hold on power of a totalitarian regime and undermining the rules-based international order. russian activists fighting corruption and human rights abuses, russia’s neighbours, our eastern partners, fighting off russian aggression, and our fellow eu members targeted by russian secret services, they all deserve our support and solidarity. the only language that the current russian leadership understands is the language of strength, unity and resolve. if we want to have any effect at all on russian behaviour we need to be principled and consistent, and this applies to our diplomatic engagement with russia, standing by our partners and our fellow members of the eu in their hour of need, as well as dealing with divisive russian energy projects that are trying to masquerade as purely non-political commercial initiatives.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, there is no place for terrorism, neither in the offline nor in the online world. we all agree to that, and therefore the negotiations between eu institutions focused on how this was to be achieved. i am happy that after a year and a half of negotiations, we were able to reach a political agreement that strengthens our society while safeguarding fundamental rights and freedoms. i would like to recognise the work of our rapporteur, but also all other parliamentary colleagues. together, we have made many important changes so that today we can be clear. the regulation will increase the effectiveness of current measures to detect, identify and remove terrorist content online without encroaching on fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and information. we worked hard to improve cooperation between member states and make the removal of terrorist content online legally watertight. i would like to highlight some aspects. firstly, as to cross-border removal orders: competent authorities in the member states will have the ability to remove terrorist content, but with a number of important safeguards. member state authorities where the hosting provider is located will be involved in the removal process from the beginning and have the final word on removing content. secondly, we have ensured that the agreement will not include any obligation to use automated filtering and technical measures cannot be imposed on service providers. thirdly, educational, journalistic, artistic or research content will be protected. fourthly, service providers will not be penalised if there are objective, technical and operational reasons for not being able to take down content in one hour. and finally, to prevent non—relevant content from being taken down, terrorist content is now strictly defined across the eu. today i can say that i am pleased with the final outcome and can strongly support the final text adopted. i would also like to thank the commissioner and all the presidencies who were involved in the negotiations.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. a uachtaráin, i dtús báire, ba mhaith liom muintir in bolaive is a mholadh. a uachtaráin, i dtús báire, ba mhaith liom muintir in bolaive is a mholadh. the an-mheas are in the daonlathas, which are reflected again and again in the ball-box. it is the responsibility of every public representative to be able to exercise their power without being subject to the laws of the land. gabhadh iar-uachtarán áñez agus pholaitiúla priosúnaigh eile gan chúis, which reflects the importance of the non-chlaonta, open and free political system. i'm trying to get rialtas to stop making laws and political decisions. there is no agreement between the eu and the eu at present. in the context of gsp+ trade, there are no laws, there is no society, there would be no law and no good trade opportunities. i sent an urgent report to him.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, bolivia needs to restore trust between political actors, disarm words, end polarization and solve its problems through dialogue and negotiation. when positions are strained, the mediation of international bodies is essential. but they need minimum conditions for success. in the case of bolivia, resetting the situation advises assuming the account of international organizations on the situation that led to the interference of the army and the police in the political life of the country. from there came the latest agreement reached in the country: to hold the 2020 elections. the result was unassailable, and gives full legitimacy to the current government. by accepting this, international organizations can provide transparency and support to clarify all human rights violations committed, guarantee the rights of all persons under investigation and restore trust in the system. persist in polarization, feed the blocks, divide, it will never add up. and it is quite possible, as we see elsewhere, that it helps the most reactionary positions to make invisible and to ignore poverty, inequality and exclusion, the real roots of the problem.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. why is the european union interested in bolivia? after all, we, the european union, were the guarantors of the peace process in 2019 and 2020, it was our representatives, the representatives of the european union, who controlled the elections in this country. therefore, we simply have a moral solidarity requirement to stand up for former president jeanine áñez, her two ministers and other political prisoners. they were carrying out their constitutional duties after the resignation of president morales. i think it is time for the european union to take a very clear position. we are also helping this country economically, humanitarianally and we cannot pretend that nothing has happened. i am convinced that on this issue, despite the political divisions in this house, we will make a very clear and strong demand for the freedom of the president and the political prisoners in this country.
mr. president, we all hoped that the recent elections in bolivia would mark a positive change, that they would restore peace to a country so divided. but the opposite happened. we have watched with horror a wave of political persecution. let's be clear: the presidential succession in 2019 was constitutional. the european union, among others, supported the oas audit of the transitional government of jeanine áñez. with the false excuse of a coup d'état, the government of luis arce justifies the political persecution, abuse of the judicial apparatus, undermining the little rule of law that still remains. we demand the immediate release of former president áñez and the two ministers. we demand an independent judicial process. the bolivian people want and deserve stability and, above all, peace. the european union has not forgotten bolivia and will stand by them in these difficult times.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, as you know well, bolivia saw a volatile, tense and confrontational period after the failed october 2019 general elections. the elections held in october 2020, which were carried out in a peaceful, transparent and credible manner, provide the foundation for a more constructive political landscape. the movimiento al socialismo (mas) won the election with 55% and luis arce became president. his vice-president, david choquehuanca, conveyed messages of openness for reconciliation in the country. there have been initial positive signals, but the country remains polarised, with various obstacles to reconciliation and democratic stability. the hr/vp josep borrell has publicly called for the accusations against ms áñez and the ministers linked to the events of 2019 to be dealt with in the framework of a fair and transparent judicial process, with full independence, without political pressure and with full respect for the division of powers. the eu delegation in la paz is in close contact with ms áñez’s family as well as with the temporary mission of the united nations high commissioner for human rights that visits ms áñez regularly in the prison. we have reiterated on various occasions to the bolivian authorities that the former president should receive appropriate medical attention. the eu has been fully engaged in support of bolivian efforts towards reconciliation and stability. it was in this spirit that the eu acted as neutral facilitator over the past 18 months, to encourage national actors to reach an agreement that would lead to transparent and democratic elections in 2020. we had the honour to be invited and we accompanied these elections with a reinforced election experts mission, adding up to our support for the democratic electoral process in the country. dear members, bolivia needs to address urgent challenges such as overcoming the pandemic and economic recovery. the eu will continue to support the country by promoting dialogue for reconciliation, involving all relevant actors, monitoring developments in the country and providing support to the promotion of democracy, rule of law and human rights in bolivia, as these are fundamental principles of the eu and of interest to all.
- a writer. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like you to look at this picture. i will ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
author. – mr president, it’s not in line with the rules but this is the couple we are dealing with today. ik heb gevraagd dat u even goed naar deze foto kijkt, omdat het gaat over deze mensen, dit echtpaar, daar gaat het over. die zitten gevangen in pakistan, deze mensen. en ik heb u de foto laten zien. ze zijn opgepakt en ze zitten sinds 2013 in de gevangenis en in 2014 hebben ze de doodstraf gekregen, dit christelijke echtpaar. en ze zijn ervan beschuldigd dat ze tekstberichten in het engels hebben doorgestuurd via een telefoon naar een aantal mensen. blasfemische berichten. ze kunnen nauwelijks hun eigen taal, het urdu, spreken. maar dit is wel gebeurd. ter dood veroordeeld nu. en ze wachten nu op hoger beroep, en hun zaak in hoger beroep is al talloze malen uitgesteld, in lahore. en dat komt waarschijnlijk omdat islamitische extremisten de rechters onder druk hebben gezet. ik wil hier ook speciaal dank betuigen aan hun advocaat, saif ul-malook. hij verdedigt dit echtpaar zoals hij ook al eerder – met succes – asia bibi heeft verdedigd, die inmiddels vrij is. en ik denk tegelijkertijd niet alleen aan dit echtpaar, maar ook aan de vele – mogelijk honderden – andere gelovigen die vastzitten vanwege blasfemie in pakistan. denk aan ahmadi’s, aan sjia-moslims, denk aan sikhs, denk aan hindoes, tallozen die vanwege die ellendige blasfemiewetgeving vastzitten. en ik ben erg blij dat eigenlijk alle fracties een krachtige gezamenlijke resolutie hebben gemaakt over deze kwestie, en vooral om de europese commissie te vragen om de gsp+-handelsbetrekkingen met pakistan te herzien. want pakistan heeft heel veel vooroordelen, en die moeten nu eens een keer goed kritisch worden bekeken. dat staat ook in deze resolutie, mijnheer de commissaris.
author. – mr president, we are all united in the one stance that we oppose not only the specific cruel blasphemy laws that are being implemented in pakistan, but also any persecution of individuals, because these are an abuse of the right to religious freedom. in this particular case we are talking about a christian couple that is under the threat of the death penalty, but as mr van dalen has pointed out, in his words, the same terrible laws have been putting many other people, many other citizens belonging to different creeds and faiths also in prison, and we could just the same be talking about other individuals. we are not making a distinction there. we support wholeheartedly religious freedom, including the freedom not to profess a religion, and we should indeed support, as our colleague has just said, interfaith dialogue also in our own home countries to give a positive example of how to deal with religious differences, without allowing those who would want to turn that into antagonism to prevail.
president. - mr president, i am condemned to death for blasphemy. this aberrant, appalling and obviously anachronistic sentence can only shock those who, here in europe or in the world, consider themselves the heirs of the enlightenment, that is to say, supporters of the free exercise of critical reason, supporters of religious freedom and opponents of the death penalty. however, this sentence is the same as that which seven years ago was passed on the pakistani couple shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel, who are now languishing on death row. our political duty, our moral duty, is obviously to put pressure on pakistan, as much as we can. it's not new; this resolution, of course, is essential, but it doesn't reveal anything about the issue of blasphemy rights in pakistan. there was the case, you remember, of asia bibi, who was also sentenced to death for the same reasons, and it took an international mobilization to finally get her acquitted and allowed to go to canada. it was also the case for the minister for minorities, mr shahbaz bhatti, who was assassinated, you remember, for the same reasons, and we also remember - at any rate, i remember as a frenchman - the threats from pakistan following the trial of the attack on charlie hebdo or after the assassination of samuel paty. so we need a general mobilization, we need to put pressure because we cannot compromise religious freedom, we cannot compromise the right to free expression, we cannot compromise the always legitimate criticism of religions.
author chairman of the sitting and representative of the european commission first of all, i would like to point out some facts concerning relations between pakistan and the european union. according to the latest data of 2019, when i checked, pakistan received from the european union i.e. all our taxpayers' money about 63.5 million euros through various projects and the gcsp+ program, with eight countries participating, pakistan has been the biggest beneficiary just through trade relations and about 76 percent of pakistani exports from the textile and garment industry come to the european union market without separate tariffs, which makes up a total of 20 percent of pakistani global exports. maybe then pakistan will get a very, very big economic benefit from relations with the european union. and if the question is that if we want to promote all these values, to protect human rights, religious freedom, all this is fine and good, but if in pakistan, as recently as april 8, two nurses were arrested and threatened with the death penalty for allegedly having written a message from the koran with a pencil from a wardrobe, which was followed by mass demonstrations, protests demanding the hanging of these two women, then it is certainly not about protecting human rights. given the fact that christians are only 1.5% of pakistan's population, they are a persecuted minority. not to mention the fact that in 2013, a married couple, safquat emmanuel and shagufta kausar, were arrested for allegedly blaspheming god through an english text message, even though the couple is illiterate and has four children, and they are still in prison awaiting execution. now the question is how the european commission, together with the foreign agency, is really going to protect the rights of all minorities, even if they are christians, whom we need to protect especially in a country like pakistan? thank you!
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year and a half the pandemic has put the management of migration, the great unresolved issue of the european union, on the back burner, a vital challenge which we can no longer tackle with temporary solutions but which requires a definitive response based on the legal and moral obligation to save human lives at sea, including through european search and rescue operations. after the first tragedy in 2015, which saw a boat sink with more than 300 people on board, italy recovered that boat to be a warning to european consciences. that warning is of no use if we are still talking and mourning a tragedy like this. the pact on migration and asylum presented by the commission is short-sighted and once again leaves the border states alone, both in rescues and in the management of reception, without providing for mandatory relocations. in short, we need more courage to face the complexity of migration. as long as the only way to get to our continent is by clandestine boat, driven by human traffickers, we and our consciences will always come out undefeated. only through regular channels of immigration and planned flows can we give a message of hope, defeat the traffickers and regulate a phenomenon that is growing rapidly. europe either faces this great challenge or it is destined to be exhausted and, in the end, defeated.
madam president, first of all if you are looking at those numbers about migration flows to italy, in 2017 it was 117 153; in 2018 it was 23 037 people; and in 2019, only 11 471 people. and it started to rise again. last year, 34 000 migrants went to italy. what happened between? between 2018 and 2019 the minister of internal affairs in italy was matteo salvini, who just closed all the harbours to foreign ships which were carrying people without any notification and without any background checks, with the result that they couldn’t control who they were, where they were coming from, whether they were real refugees, whether they were criminals or terrorists... and what we are doing here in this house is attacking frontex, a body which is supposed to protect the eu’s external borders and we are attacking them because they are simply doing their job. most of us here in this chamber are saying that we should continue with an open border policy and we should just let them in because otherwise they will die. but the problem is that if you don’t close the borders then you are just donating to human traffickers who are earning billions of euros with this business and more people will still die, and actually that is your fault. it’s the fault of the commission, it’s the fault of all the leftists and liberals here who are just asserting solidarity and tolerance. they are telling us that we need more solidarity and at the same time of course they will not open their own homes to those people. they are saying that we have to do it. so it means that other people have to do it, not themselves who are living in a nice area with a good salary.
mr president, we all agree that the ability to transfer personal data across borders has the potential to be a key driver of innovation, productivity and economic competitiveness, especially with close partners like the us and the uk. we also agree that the free movement of personal data has to fulfil the eu standards set out in the gdpr and law enforcement directive, and i hope that we all agree to learn from previous mistakes. therefore, it is important that, as the european parliament, we make it crystal clear that any decisions to transfer data are also in line with eu court rulings and concerns raised by the european data protection board (edpb). in terms of the us, both the safe harbor agreement and the privacy shield have been overruled by the european court. this parliament had previously issued several calls on the commission to address the problems and now this resolution calls for any new personal data transfer agreements to ensure full compliance with gdpr and every aspect of the relevant court rulings. i welcome the fact that the commission is currently modernising standard contractual clauses (sccs) and reviewing all existing adequacy decisions to ensure that they comply with the court rulings. i wish you all success in negotiations with the us. in terms of the uk, it has to be recognised that the uk legal framework is similar to that of the eu, but there are a number of concerns regarding its implementation, including exceptions in the fields of national security and immigration, which now also apply to eu citizens, and the absence of court oversight of such data policies. the resolution also raises concerns over data transfer to third countries without adequacy agreements. to conclude, while these resolutions will not block the adequacy decisions, they call on the commission to ensure that, in line with the edpb, they should be fully consistent with the union and case law to ensure that the personal data of our citizens is protected. the ball is in the commission’s court, and i hope you act responsibly.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, war is never a good solution. it might bring a short—term victory, but it also brings unnecessary deaths and suffering, and it takes time to heal wounds. let me focus on three very urgent issues in this context. first, the need to release all armenian prisoners of war and other detainees. i urge azerbaijan to fulfil its international obligations, including the ceasefire agreement and the ruling of the european court of human rights, which has granted interim measures with respect to more than 200 armenian individuals. second, the inflammatory rhetoric and spreading of hatred needs to stop. the military trophy park in baku is the most serious example of it. it humiliates and dehumanises armenians, glorifies violence and teaches the wrong lessons to azerbaijani kids. it has to be removed. third, the border incident and ongoing crisis at the southern interstate border are deeply worrying. i urge azerbaijan to withdraw and start proper border negotiations with armenia. removing these obstacles will bring closer the much—awaited peace and reconciliation to the people of armenia and azerbaijan.
madam president, when protests began in minsk against lukashenko’s dictatorship last year, many of us were excessively jubilant and predicted an imminent fall of the regime. well the jubilation was, unfortunately, premature, and we can say that with every new crime against his own people, the likelihood of lukashenko ever voluntarily relinquishing power and allowing for a democratic transition is only growing more and more remote. as demonstrated by the hijacking of a civilian aircraft in may, lukashenko no longer even shies away from putting the lives of hundreds of eu nationals at risk while hunting down his regime’s critics abroad. europe must not tolerate this kind of behaviour. our response to lukashenko’s total neglect of international norms cannot be naive, and it will have to be even more resolute. the sanctions we apply must obviously be well targeted, but the effect of those sanctions will have to go all the way to the top of the regime, including lukashenko himself. finally, we will have to be able to work hard to mitigate the russian efforts to prop up lukashenko’s criminal regime and to exploit the situation in belarus in order to advance the kremlin’s own anti-democratic agenda.
madam president, beating covid—19 and building back better is now the priority for international cooperation. to build back better, global business must be made more transparent, sustainable and accountable. the pandemic has shed a lot of light on the fragility of global value chains. now, the eu has a unique chance to ensure that the value chains of companies are also free of human rights violations, such as child and forced labour, and that lands of multinational companies are not destroying the livelihoods of indigenous peoples. the eu has just agreed on the important first step on public country—by—country reporting on income taxes of companies, and we are also moving towards corporate sustainability reporting and towards mandatory human rights and environmental due diligence. the eu is indeed a global leader on corporate accountability. we need to act fast and ambitiously and our best allies are among the g7. let us grasp this opportunity.
mr. chairman of the board! mrs. zacarias and mr. dombrovskis! i am also very pleased that the united states and the european union are trying to develop cooperation, but it is of course a little funny, or even strange, to see such a celebration, a constant celebration, that relations between the united states and europe are now being restored, as if the right man is in the white house. but at the same time, i haven't heard any particular criticism of the circumstances that, for example, the us president today decided to make a gift to russia regarding nord stream 2 and the lifting of sanctions. no one dares to criticize because this is the right man in the white house. when the other guy put sanctions on russia to stop russia from increasing its energy influence on the european economy, nobody even praised it very much, they just said, "well, okay, that's very nice". second, when it was pretty clear last spring that there's a high probability that in the current situation, we're probably in a crisis because of a virus that escaped from a lab, and when that was said, everyone cursed and said, "you can't say that, that's an insult to china". if today joe biden orders the intelligence community to come forward with the facts within 90 days that this virus could really have come from a lab, not jumped randomly from a bat to a human in a city with multiple virus labs, then that's perfectly normal. so maybe my call is to develop relationships, but let's not be two-faced and let's not talk about rhetoric like values and democracy, which is just one big bubble.
mr president, online violence against women in politics is an important topic and it’s important that we are discussing it today. aga me ei peaks rääkima ainult naispoliitikutest. me peame rääkima kõigist naistest, kes on langenud või võivad langeda kübervägivalla ohvriks. seepärast tahaksin ma rõhutada parlamendi naistevastase kübervägivalla raporti olulisust. kübervägivald ei ole enam uus nähtus ning eriti haavatavad on naised, lapsed ja vähemused. selleks et naistevastane kübervägivald ei muutuks uueks normaalsuseks, tuleb tegutseda kiiresti ja koordineeritult, samaaegselt erinevatel tasanditel ja erinevate meetoditega. kaasatud peab olema kogu ühiskond poliitilisest tasandist tsiviilühiskonnani. euroopa liit peab olema suunanäitaja nii euroopas kui ka rahvusvaheliselt.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, the heads of state will discuss migration and asylum in the council. the question is simple: is there at last a will on the part of the states to move forward? since the refugee crisis of 2015, the european union, with its divisions, has been inert. we are allowing smuggling networks and situations of lawlessness to flourish: this is not the face of the europe of values we are defending. at the beginning of june, together with our renew group and its chairman dacian cioloş, we asked the states and the commission to relaunch the malta agreement of september 2019. the three objectives are: to put an end to human tragedy in the mediterranean, to organise the rescue at sea of migrants who embark on dangerous routes and to ensure that responsibility is shared equitably between all member states. we cannot leave italy, spain, greece or malta to deal with the growing numbers of arrivals alone. i do not believe in the big picture of asylum and migration and i prefer the small steps method of robert schuman and jean monnet. we can act to build genuine solidarity by making concrete achievements this summer.
mr president, while the migration and asylum pact is still deadlocked, migrants and refugees keep drowning on our shores, queuing up at our borders or scraping out a living in camps. on relocation, we still see many member states displaying an alarming lack of solidarity. a humane management of migration in a political union like ours must entail the commitment to relocate. only with leadership at eu level and with member states acting for once as a bloc can we meaningfully tackle relocation. on another note, the last time the european council met in brussels, the spanish prime minister announced his will to pardon the catalan political prisoners. today and after three and a half ignominious years in jail, they walked free. this is a welcome decision that should allow for political dialogue and negotiation to finally take off. however, it will take much more courage to solve a conflict that is far from over, for many judicial proceedings, targeting hundreds of citizens, are still ongoing. hence our call for an amnesty. and there remains a big, persistent demand in catalonia still to be heard: we want to decide freely on our political future in an agreed referendum. we will keep working with full democratic conviction for that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. once again, the eu is talking about solidarity. and once again, this term does not bode well for the citizens. whenever the rulers use the word 'solidarity', it is really about imposing something on the citizens with power. and so it is this time: the so-called eu solidarity mechanism - this large-scale forced distribution of those migrants who continue to come to us in droves not only across the mediterranean - is definitely not in the interests of the citizens of the union. in germany, 62 percent of respondents to a recent representative survey clearly opposed the admission of more asylum seekers. in france, the figure was 70 percent last year. the european parliament has already said that it will not accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the commission and the council speak of solidarity, and they should first of all show it to their own citizens. they want a joint effort to protect our external borders effectively. this is the only solidarity you owe to the citizens!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear from the last council that some of the countries and some of the representatives here have no idea why the position of the republic of bulgaria at the beginning of the negotiations on the republic of north macedonia with the european union remains unchanged. it's very simple, colleagues, i'll tell you for those who don't understand. it remains unchanged, mr. shefcovic, because in the republic of north macedonia human rights continue to be violated, people continue to be persecuted for their bulgarian national identity, the police continue to arrest people who express their bulgarian origin. this is unacceptable, mr commissioner, these are not european values. dear mr. shefchowicz, i'm picking up where i left off. we inform you that in the republic of north macedonia the government, the authorities continue to violate the human rights of the bulgarians living there. for example, there are people who have been arrested because they wrote on a social network that they are of bulgarian origin. for example, at the border, books are arrested, mr. shefchowicz, books are arrested. such was the order in nazi germany and the bolshevik communist man-hating soviet union. is this the european union we want and is this the country we want to see this european union set up? i doubt that very much. please pay attention, these are serious matters.
i would like to make a special welcome to the next speech, because i think it will be one of the last speeches you will have the opportunity to make in this parliament during this term of office, if not the last.
mr president, thank you for your greeting. two notes on two subjects to be discussed by the european council. as regards economic recovery, the veil of conditionality associated with the recovery and resilience mechanism is gradually being lifted. a menu, one might say, in the style of the troika, which is said to range from the proverbial structural reforms to the illegitimate pressures on labour legislation, pensions, social security, public services, including health. we want to know, commissioner, what kind of compensation is being imposed on the member states, whether by the european commission or by the hawks of the european council. we know that when it comes to increasing exploitation and attacking public services, both are usually very frugal. as for covid-19, recent developments in the situation demonstrate the importance of moving faster in vaccination. the european union's refusal to lift the patents on vaccines and thus guarantee the sharing of knowledge is increasingly untenable, putting the stubborn defence of the profits of multinational pharmaceutical consortia ahead of the health and life of people.
mr president, in the run-up to the summit, it is becoming clear in practice in a number of countries that the necessary vaccines are helping, but that they cannot - as the commission and the governments claim - be the only means of combating the pandemic. your strategy reinforces the commodified, overpriced health care, the cost-benefit ratio that got us here. while the big business groups are making money with the recovery fund, its repayment is being charged to the people with memoranda-excrements for ten-hour work, limiting the strike, gambling on subsidiary pensions, while new green and digital taxes are being passed on to the people. in competition with the us, china and russia, and to attract turkey, the eu is making it a safe country by using fast track deportations and frontex-style repression, perpetuating the eu-turkey declaration that traps thousands of refugees on the greek islands. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of the hostages.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what future for europe if it does not learn to defend itself against the authoritarian violence that is growing within it? the european council is unfortunately opening in a very heavy atmosphere: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president von der leyen was right to say that the anti-lgbt law promoted by orbán is a disgrace, as were yesterday 14 governments that stigmatized the law, including the italian government. what does the league think? is he with the government he's in or with orbán? now we need to react: the european leaders must immediately activate the sanctions already requested by the european parliament and blocked by the council and the commission must immediately trigger the mechanism of conditionality on the rule of law, so that europeans' money is never used again to trample on the rights of everyone. it takes more courage: every minute lost is an act of prevarication and violence against european citizens, the lgbt community, everyone!
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking portugal, its excellent officials and secretary of state zacarias for an excellent presidency of the council. thank you very much. and i must also say that in this european council we are starting with a very great scandal which is this hungarian law which is an attack on the european legal order and on the fundamental values which are in our charter of fundamental rights; it is an attack on human dignity, on freedom of expression and on free education, and we cannot tolerate that certain member states, by decisions taken at national level, undermine the fundamental principles of the union. that is why the european commission cannot wait another minute to open an infringement procedure for this law and to put in place the mechanism for defending the rule of law which has cost so much to have and which is an instrument we must know how to use. and the unacceptable attitude of uefa in recent days must be condemned. i also want, finally and finally, to show my support for the request made by my colleague terry reintke that this parliament, tonight, also be illuminated with the colours of the rainbow to show all our support and solidarity with the lgbti community throughout europe.
mr president, first of all, i would like to come back to the malta declaration, which will be discussed in a few days. ms zacarias mentioned that we need a shared responsibility in the eu. my main question is that, when the european commission is officially promoting migration from the middle east and africa because demography is in the minus, and we need more workers and more people because family policies have totally failed in the eu, and there are countries which are actually supporting family policy to give more benefits to parents to have more kids, why do they have to share this responsibility? when there are countries in the eu which do not even want to close the borders and do not even want to stop illegal migration, or when chancellor merkel opens the borders and says that everybody is welcome, why do the estonian people, my nation, have to share the responsibility when a mistake is made by chancellor merkel? where is this shared responsibility? i do not think it is part of these european values. finally, in my last sentence, i have to congratulate mr orbán. i know i’m in the minority in this house here, but i do not think that we in this house are more important than the members of the parliament elected by the hungarian people in hungary.
we must manage europe's external borders effectively. this is the only way to ensure a robust internal system based on trust, solidarity and accountability, which is crucial in the fight against illegal migration, terrorism and serious crime, whether politically motivated or not. we also need a harmonised approach to visas, so that we can exploit the full potential of the schengen area without compromising the integrity and internal security of citizens. i am pleased that today we are adopting the instrument for financial support for border management and visa policy, which is to help member states facing challenges at their external borders. the funds should accelerate digitalisation with a view to the establishment of fast, correct and high-quality procedures. let us take this opportunity to call once again on the member states to work towards closer european cooperation. the controlled management of migration flows can only succeed if we join hands.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear ylva johansson, madam rapporteur, dear tanja fajon, i would like to welcome the agreement on the asylum, immigration and integration fund and the integrated border management fund for the period 2021-2027. these two financial instruments are an expression of de facto solidarity between member states on asylum and migration issues. over the next seven years, €16 billion will support projects to welcome asylum seekers or to integrate refugees and to better combat smuggling networks and irregular immigration. european agencies - including the european asylum agency and frontex - are also playing an increasing role in these state support missions. through these instruments, the union will be able to finance material and human resources to improve the efficiency of asylum procedures, while fully respecting the rights of individuals. the union will also benefit from a crisis reserve to help a member state in the event of migration pressure in a short time. finally, i would like to welcome the support made possible to local authorities who are carrying out integration projects and who are working as closely as possible to the people.
chairman of the counting session! i speak the most beautiful language in the world, and my native language is estonian. first, a big thank you to mrs. johansson, and second, i'd be happy to quickly comment on a good fellow socialist who said something about christ and quoted the pope. i would be very happy if the majority in this room were christians like me, because then we could not accept a policy of open borders where anyone can come in from any direction he wants. i should add that what the pope said may be true of catholics, but i am a lutheran. so, fortunately for me, these catholic speeches don't mean much, and my philosophy is, first and foremost, protect your people. i would like to see people in this room who leave their doors open and invite all the strangers in: "come here -- i believe you are good people, i will feed you, i will give you a place to sleep. i'm not afraid of anyone. if someone ends up getting killed, like a somali migrant killed three people a week ago, we say, "it just happened to be me". maybe i'm too xenophobic, maybe i'm not tolerant enough of him. this is crazy, you know that. and that's the christian idea - we protect our people and help those who really need help.
madam president, there’s no denying that the results of our 20 year engagement in afghanistan were not what we would have liked to see. there have been missed opportunities. there’s been wishful thinking and erroneous assumptions. but in the situation we find ourselves in today, our efforts will have to focus mainly on two things. first, averting the pending humanitarian catastrophe, which, if we allow it to happen, will have profoundly negative implications for european security, but first of all, for the lives of millions of afghans. and second, when it comes to the access of women and girls to healthcare and education, the gains made over the past 20 years have been significant and we have to do what we can so these gains are not completely erased. we know our means and our access are limited, so we have to use them smartly. and finally, we have to do the lessons learned and bolster european capabilities, including military capabilities, so as to be able to respond more swiftly, more resolutely and more robustly to similar crises in the future.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr kubilius for this really interesting report. this is a very important topic, as we saw with mr borrell, who left the chamber just before this debate. first of all, i agree with many, many things in this report. i agree that russia is a security threat to the neighbourhood countries. it’s a threat to ukraine and georgia, as well as the baltic states – i’m from estonia, so i know this very well. however, there are many things with which i just do not agree. firstly, this report says that we should give more power to the european union to conduct relations with russia. that would mean that mr borrell, as the high representative for foreign affairs, should talk directly with russia and represent the 27 member states. we saw this a few months ago and it was embarrassing. so i would prefer mr borrell to not speak with russia over our heads, over the estonian head. secondly, i would like to ask how we are to go about organising the regime change mentioned in the report? how? at the same time as we are letting russia raise its influence over our energy policy through nord stream 2, where there are deals made between germany and russia, at the same time as the economical impact is rising because we are trying to solve problems with fit for 55 and climate change, we are just trying to organise regime change. now when we are weak, when we are not supporting our defence systems. we are not paying for our defence and we don’t want to have more sovereignty over our energy and climate policy. it’s a bit weird. so that’s why i have to abstain from tomorrow’s vote. i can’t vote against it, but i can’t support it either.
mr president, we must not abandon hope and we must seek cooperation with those in russia who share our core values, so that one day we can have a constructive partner in moscow. in the meantime, we must admit that there are certain key differences between our world outlook and value system and those of the current russian regime. this sets limits on how trusting our relationship can be. let’s work our way, so to say, from inside out. first, the way russia treats its own people – russia’s human rights record – is ugly. it’s treatment of dissidents and political opposition is truly horrible. second, the way russia disrespects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its closest neighbours is in contravention of international law and contrary to the eu’s special security interest. third, and most importantly, we must consider the way russia keeps interfering in our internal affairs, be it by supporting radical populist parties, be it under the guise of protecting the so-called traditional values, or be it by promoting conspiracy theories aimed at undermining europeans’ trust in our democratically elected institutions. so yes, we need to work with russia on common challenges, but we must always remain sober, alert and situationally aware.
madam president, the minute only allows me to make three brief points. first, i believe it’s a very solid report and it reflects very strong unity among the major political groups in the parliament when it comes to our approach to china. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur hilde vautmans on that. secondly, china is no doubt a rising global power, and the higher it rises, the more our relationship with china moves into the realm of strategic rivalry. it’s a relationship that is multifaceted and complex. we are looking for a comprehensive approach to china that would cover a variety of different policy areas, and this quest, if it has underscored anything, i think it is the need for greater unity among european union member states, but also the need for a greater eu strategic autonomy across a variety of policy areas, from security to trade to industrial and technological development. and finally, the human rights dialogue has been and will be a part of that complex relationship, and we cannot accept any attempts by china to intimidate us by imposing arbitrary sanctions on members of this parliament, and our actions must be guided by solidarity with the colleagues who have been targeted by such sanctions.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the summer which is drawing to a close places the european union before its responsibilities in two major respects. the first is our ecological conversion: across the globe, climate disasters are a reminder of the urgency. and what the ipcc report says, nature confirms. of all the hypotheses considered, this is the most serious version of the climate change that is at work. not in 2050, not today. and not just on the other side of the world, here, at home. in the face of this existential challenge, we cannot, in your words, madam president, turn our backs on future generations. the response to the emergency lies with us, the generation that, here and now, holds the levers of political and economic power. accelerate implementation, raise the level of ambition, bring our objectives and the means to achieve them into line. faster, higher, stronger: it's time to apply the olympic motto to our efforts to save the climate. the proposal for a common agricultural policy that is deaf and blind to social, climate and biodiversity issues is therefore the perfect example of what not to do. ladies and gentlemen, there is still a chance of a flare-up. do the right thing, vote this cap down. the 'fit for 55' carbon-neutrality package needs to be accelerated and made more ambitious. so why wait until 2032, yes, 2032 to tax kerosene? and why not set a target that by 2030, renewables will account for half of our energy? but above all, madam president, how can we explain the fact that fossil fuels still receive tens of billions of euros in public subsidies every year? parliament has called for the total and immediate abolition of these subsidies, but the commission is only half-hearted in its approach of phasing them out over a period of 10 to 15 years. madam president, you have all the cards in your hand to put an end to this scandal. it is the credibility of the green deal that is at stake. i would also remind you that the ecological transition can only be achieved with solidarity. sustainable and fair production costs more. so we need to transform our tax and social systems so that each and every one of us can afford to live with dignity. and here the levers are largely in the hands of the member states. but it is the responsibility of the commission and the european union to free them from the infernal social and fiscal competition so that they can give themselves the means to make this transformation. this is particularly true on the taxation of multinationals and, as the imf itself says, on the taxation of capital. a word to those who link climate action to the fact that it is being done at the expense of our economy and our jobs. one of two things: either we fail and there will simply be no more economy because the planet will have become uninhabitable for humans, or we succeed and it is then vital, absolutely vital, that the european union is at the forefront of the transition, because that is where the heart of our future competitiveness lies. otherwise, we will be left to acquire the green solutions of the rest of the world. having lost its digital leadership, the european union cannot afford to miss the green revolution. this brings me to the second major challenge: to make the european union a geopolitical player worthy of its capabilities and ambitions. after the humiliations in moscow, ankara and, in a barely more subtle way, beijing, the final insult came from washington. the afghan disaster caused by the unilateral us withdrawal has once again demonstrated european impotence. like you, madam president, my thoughts go first of all to the afghans, and in particular to the afghan women, who have suffered from war for two generations and are once again under the yoke of islamic fundamentalism. i also want to thank all our fellow citizens who were sent there, in uniform or not, and who paid with their lives or their health for the lack of strategic vision of their leaders. let this disaster at least be an opportunity for us to take a leap of faith, because the european union can be a major geopolitical player, but it must then give itself the means to do so. to provide the means means, it is first necessary to choose the division of sovereignty. only by uniting our visions and our resources can we europeans exert influence beyond our borders. individually, our states, even the largest of them, are dwarfs compared to the other great powers. and this applies both politically and militarily. to do so means to re-examine our economic priorities and to strengthen our autonomy. as long as the union places its own supplies, particularly energy supplies, and its commercial interests at the top of its priorities, we will remain tied to our suppliers and our customers. and believe me, vladimir putin and xi jinping know this all too well. to do so is to strengthen our status as a normative power, especially in the digital sector. far from surveillance capitalism in the american way and the surveillance state in the chinese way, let us build a european model that puts technology at the service of humans instead of enslaving them. to be able to do so also means to be able to invest both within and outside our borders so that neither our member states nor our partners, feeling abandoned by the union, have any choice but to give in to the self-interested advances of our strategic rivals. to do so is to fulfil our duty to set an example: how can we defend and promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law if we are unable to enforce them within the european union itself? how can we get the rest of the world to make sufficient climate commitments if our efforts are not up to our historical responsibilities? finally, to provide the means is to choose acceptance and human dignity. so, of course, the european union is not the only one responsible for the fact that 85 million people are now forcibly displaced around the world. but who here would dare to say that we have no responsibility for climate change, for the depletion of resources, for the maintenance of an oppressive regime in power or for armed conflicts around the world? as such, i am shocked, shocked that just one week before the fall of kabul, six member states, including my own, had the abject indecency to insist on continuing the expulsions to afghanistan. i am shocked that even today, far from standing by the side of the afghans, madam president, the sole concern of the 27 member states is to ensure that no afghan asylum seeker sets foot on the territory of the union. not only are the member states trampling on our fundamental values, they are putting the union at the mercy of autocrats like erdoğan. i tell you, never, never will a fortress europe be a respected geopolitical actor. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, during the brexit process we have constantly reminded the british government that you cannot have butter and butter money. it is high time that we europeans applied this common sense to ourselves. to be a leader in the energy transition, green and supportive and a respected and influential player in the world is within our reach, provided we are willing to roll up our sleeves and give us the means.
on behalf of the id group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the citizens of the eu do not need a solemn state of the union speech, as you have just given us another one today. the content of your speech, without all the false pathos and soberly considered, is a never-before-seen expense orgy of alleged forced happiness from brussels. green deal, fit-for-55, reconstruction funds - these are all figures for more central government, for more absurd and meaningless subsidies, for more bureaucracy and more coddling of citizens. and the citizens are supposed to pay for it with their own hard-earned money through the introduction of eu taxes as well as through eu debt, which is not provided for in the european treaties for good reasons. but that doesn't matter to you in your de facto socialist bliss. you want to save the world, don't you? they want europe to heal the world's climate. what a hubris! and you want to rebuild europe as if it had been destroyed by covid, as it actually was after world war ii, but not today. but you don't seem to care about that in your insatiable lust for more power and more control over people's lives. have you ever thought that the citizens of the union want one thing above all from the eu, namely to be left alone, apart from a few unquestioned real tasks? to be able to keep their hard-earned money for themselves instead of throwing it down the throat of the moloch brussels in the form of additional taxes, or to go into debt for meaningless projects that their children and grandchildren will have to pay for? it is a very significant event if you, mrs von der leyen, as always, receive the greatest support from the left half of this chamber. it is very convenient for you that in germany a government of red socialists, green socialists and expropriation-euphoric communists is standing at the door. that should fuel your spending and redistribution orgies even further. your green deal, mrs von der leyen, your green deal is not a deal! a deal requires the consent of two free contractors. it is an unprecedented attack on the economic foundations of our continent. so the eu wants to save the whole planet on its own! the european public must pay for this enormous hubris. we germans are already experiencing today what the absurd parallel phase-out of coal and nuclear power means for individual households. germany already has the highest electricity prices in europe, thanks to mrs merkel's completely screwed-up energy transition. more and more people cannot afford the electricity, heating or gasoline to get to work. a bitter taste for our neighbouring countries. yes, listen carefully, with the green deal, your countries are also affected, ladies and gentlemen. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the eu and especially our home country, germany, are on a capital and historic wrong track. if europe is to remain a prosperous, economically successful continent and at the same time achieve its goal of massive co2 reduction, it will not be possible with the planned economic experiments of the eu commission or with pseudo-ecological approaches of the so-called greens, who destroy our landscape with thousands of windmills as the sacred buildings of their green creeds. it's only going to lead to blackouts and power rationing. it is only possible to do this with high technology. and it's not from brussels. the only way to achieve this is to make full use of nuclear energy, the most advanced form of nuclear energy, fourth generation. that is why your self-congratulatory speech is blatantly wrong. with your course, mrs von der leyen, you are literally leading europeans into a cold and dark future. no, the eu is not fit. she is now a sick patient who lacks the insight into her own illness as the necessary foundation of any recovery. this is true across all areas, including those that i cannot discuss here for time reasons: covid policy, for example, or the catastrophic failures of migration policy. the disconcerting complacency of your speech, mrs von der leyen, does not do justice to the great challenges of future generations. on the contrary, unfortunately. in a quarter of a century - i predict this to you - in a quarter of a century, people will be shaking their heads in disbelief at the political errors of our time. and to see that even today, you don't have to be a prophet, but just master the handling of data and facts, then you understand it.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i listened very carefully to what you said and i think it is important, starting from your remarks and from the important change that europe is witnessing today, to make some remarks which are not just to tell the story of the lights and the positive things that have been done. he claimed the successes of the next generation eu and the vaccine campaign, but it's also important, to understand deeply the difficulties of europe, to also understand and remember what went wrong, what didn't work within the limits of the current european union. in the early stages of the pandemic, when faced with the uncertainty of covid, there was not this climate of solidarity and unity but there was selfishness and closure, the response was slow and uncertain. we must remember this, because remembering this helps us not to forget our limits and to better understand the opportunities and prospects on which we must confront ourselves. the crisis has shown the need for a profound and total change, and our group is prepared, as always, to confront this with serious proposals, not slogans, provided there is a real and serious debate that respects everyone's opinions and proposals. the ongoing pandemic crisis, the economic and social challenges and the international context increasingly characterised by strong tensions between the different actors and new fronts of instability are putting us in front of serious, important challenges, to which our continent must be able to respond. the first challenge is the one you referred to, and it is the fundamental part, the health challenge, linked to the economic and social challenge. the first signs of recovery must be structural, creating the conditions for a solid and lasting economic recovery capable of guaranteeing employment and social stability. the resources of the next generation eu have a key role to play, but they are not enough on their own. i have not heard a word about the cornerstone of this debate, the stability pact. the stability pact is not a detail, and no one talks about it as if it were not a problem. it is a decisive and fundamental issue, because changing the mechanisms, while respecting and sustaining the debt, is a decisive fact, not doing so, going back to the old patterns, going back to two years ago, as if nothing had happened, would be devastating and would make the policies to which reference is made very unreliable. but at the same time it is important to refer to the necessary changes on the subject of state aid, which have led to an increase in disparity between the different member states. in recent months we have realised that we are too dependent on outside sources for medical products and raw materials and that trade policy must regain its strategic autonomy. otherwise we will have important limits. all this must be done, without a doubt, with a process of environmental and digital transition - and we all agree on this - but it is not that we can turn our backs and say that those who raise the serious problem are demagogues, that this environmental transition cannot be dropped without assessing the general conditions in relation to what is happening in the world, and above all in relation to the impact on our production and economic system, because otherwise we risk doing damage and we will not give results that we must all look at with equal certainty. the issue of international affairs and immigration presents us with important urgencies. you mentioned a pact on migration: we have three fronts, and we behave differently on all three fronts. the first is the central european front, where resources and relations with turkey are being invested with ambiguity and hypocrisy, in contrast to the lack of action in the mediterranean and the evaluation of lukashenko's use of immigration as an instrument in the new front that has been opened with the afghan situation. i shall close because i think it is important to make one last reference to the rule of law. we are ready for the comparison: the conference on the future of europe, if it is to impose a federalist agenda, is not of interest to us. if the conference on the future of europe and the debate in this house are to be open and respect all positions, we are in. what is happening in some member states, starting with poland, is the result of a political approach and a preconception that a majority wants to impose, going in the opposite direction to the principles and values of a european union which must respect, in its diversity, the competences of individual states as well.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. mrs von der leyen, although you have given us a lot of praise for yourself today, you have unfortunately left us with many answers and, above all, a convincing idea for the further development of the european union. this parliament, 140 former heads of state and nobel prize winners, over 100 countries worldwide are now calling for the suspension of patent protection for the corona vaccines. because the understanding here is that the pandemic can only really be overcome when the vaccine is available to everyone, including in the global south. when will the commission abandon its blockade of the suspension of patent protection in order to protect the health of all, not to jeopardize the economic recovery that is just beginning and, above all, to avoid further social division in society? the 10 richest billionaires in europe -- ladies and gentlemen, let's think about this number -- the 10 richest billionaires in europe have increased their net worth by over 180 billion euros during the pandemic. at the same time, one fifth of the children in the european union live in poverty. the crisis has affected mainly women with low qualifications, and selfemployed and precarious service providers have lost their jobs. i do not want them, or the young people of southern europe, or the pensioners to have to pay for the crisis again. we need a minimum tax for multinational companies that have teeth. what is needed is a comprehensive financial transaction tax, which would bring some 40 billion euros into the european coffers. tax justice and poverty reduction go hand in hand. when will you finally make both a priority in your work in the commission, mrs von der leyen? the west is in a deep crisis because of the defeat of nato in afghanistan. the policy of military intervention and nation building has failed disastrously, and yet some of my colleagues here, mr borrell, can think of nothing but the call for armaments and a military union. mr. weber, don't you really think that the money you're going to invest in the military would be better spent on poverty reduction? the lesson of the afghan disaster is that the eu is working on a sovereign foreign policy based on smart development policies, fair trade, effective climate protection and a humanitarian migration policy. the eu thus becomes a credible and strong actor in international relations. ladies and gentlemen, to end the stalemate in european politics which has been presented to us here today, we need a new beginning, also here in this house. and to you, social democrats and greens, you know that you cannot implement your ideas of better social security and effective climate protection with the majority that exists in this house. and to you liberals, you know that your ideas for the defense of democracy and fundamental rights cannot be implemented if you continue to form majorities with those who do not clearly distinguish themselves to the right. so let's work together here. let's work together to build new majorities for social and climate justice, for a digital transformation that leaves no one behind, and for the strengthening of democracy. the europeans deserve it. thank you for your attention.
madam president, madam president von der leyen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming months we are going to have to take decisions which will have important consequences for future generations. the future is in our hands. the five star movement has a proposal: let us meet, president von der leyen, and discuss, together with giuseppe conte, whose contribution was fundamental to the recovery fund, how to transform the stability pact into a pact of solidarity and development. sustainable development, to save our planet from environmental catastrophe; technological development, to help our businesses compete in the global market; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission proposes changes to the current budget constraints that the pandemic has put out of the picture: we are turbocharging public investment with a new pact that replaces the word austerity with solidarity. we support the european minimum wage. we are also in favour of a common foreign and defence policy, so that the citizens of the world look to our values, democracy and freedom, as a model to follow. finally, i would like to thank you, mr president, for inviting our champion bebe vio. if europe has half the character and courage of this extraordinary champion, we will not be afraid of the future.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first of all, on behalf of the council, i thank and congratulate president von der leyen on her address, on her strong and continued pro-european conviction, and on her action in this moment as the eu is gradually recovering from the pandemic but facing great challenges in terms of climate change and the international situation. you underlined the fact that a strong soul was needed. a strong soul will be delivered by the presidency. we continue to be guided by the strategic agenda 2019-2024 and, in my view, the slovenian presidency’s priorities fit perfectly with president von der leyen’s address today. during our presidency, we will focus in particular on building up health and cyber resilience, and also highlighting the need to ensure resilience to any type of crisis. covid-19 showed that in a time of crisis, the internal market and full freedoms become very fragile. therefore, i believe that further strengthening of the single market must stay in our focus, and an unhindered functioning of the internal market is of key importance for the european economy. regarding the health union, intensive work between the council and the european parliament is ongoing. the council is working towards achieving final agreement on the three proposals in the package by the end of the year. we certainly need to use this political momentum and to show our citizens that together we are building a more resilient union that will be better prepared to cope with future health crises. we welcome the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) proposal published yesterday. i can assure you that the slovenian presidency will make every effort to advance negotiations. we see the hera proposal as complementing the health union package. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use this opportunity to thank the european commission for its strong leadership in the past year that brought us to a point where a successful vaccine rollout has helped stabilise the epidemiological situation. nonetheless, due to vaccine hesitancy in many countries, as well as the threat of variants, we will need to remain cautious. measures to curb the spread of the virus will be with us for some time to come, as will the need to coordinate covid—related measures. we intend to continue to ensure a coordinated approach. vaccine-sharing with countries most in need is an important gesture of solidarity. as the presidency, we will therefore also do our best to accelerate efforts on eu vaccine donation to third countries. prime minister janez janša addressed this hemicycle in july and stated that, and i quote, ‘the most important thing for our short-term future is to stop the pandemic and recover economically as soon as possible.’ the virus put a halt on social life and the economy for the greater part of 2020 and 2021. it is estimated that covid-19 took away more than five million jobs in the first half of 2020. the eu economy has shrunk by 6% yet, in the second quarter of 2021, we see a remarkable recovery across the eu. this recovery must include the green and digital transition. allow me to highlight the proposal on digital services and digital markets. the council is working on both acts intensively and we aim to agree on a council position by the end of the year. as ms von der leyen stated today, digital is a make or break issue. the presidency can only applaud the announcement about the building of a new eu chip ecosystem and the new cybersecurity act. i would like to thank the commission for the tremendous work on the ‘fit for 55’ package. in a very short time, you presented a huge legislative agenda across eu policies that will have a far-reaching impact on our economy, industry and our way of life. all of this is also very important in the light of our preparation for the cop26 in glasgow. it is never easy to change our social and economic patterns, especially if this implies higher costs for our citizens. therefore, the social consequences of this transition have to be properly addressed. that is why we applaud the announcement of the new climate social fund. we will work together with the commission to ensure that the council swiftly endorses the necessary acts for the adoption of the national recovery plans for the remaining member states and the disbursement of funds. these are essential for recovery. since the beginning of the slovenian presidency, we have managed to approve 18 national plans. i’m convinced that this will provide an additional boost for the european recovery. ladies and gentlemen, all of these topics – plus rule of law, strategic autonomy, global action, migration and asylum acts, european defence union – will determine our future and the future of next generations for decades to come. that is why they are part of the conference on the future of europe discussions managed jointly by the european parliament, european commission and council. we should ensure that we engage with and listen to our citizens in the quest to answer the question of what kind of europe they wish to live in. these discussions should go far beyond the brussels bubble and far beyond our capitals. i am glad that the first citizens’ panel will kick off at the end of this week. it is also important that when debating the future of the eu, we look beyond current borders. the process of enlargement is taking place. the region of the western balkans has an eu perspective. as the presidency, slovenia pays special attention to the western balkans. the eu-western balkans summit will take place in slovenia in october. enlargement should be one of the eu’s strategic priorities. accession of the western balkan countries should be part of our common vision. finally, we welcome the commission’s letter of intent, which the council will discuss next week, together with the annual foresight report. we are convinced that the report will be a useful tool not only for political deliberation, but also for finding proper expert solutions to the issues that the world of today and tomorrow face. we look forward to continuing the fruitful dialogue among the three institutions on our common priorities for the coming year. in november, the council will discuss the new commission work programme with a view to the joint declaration on legislative priorities for 2022. our joint programme can help us, and our three institutions, achieve results in a focused and targeted way. let me reaffirm the council’s commitment to this process and assure you that the presidency will continue to be a determined partner. let me once again reassure that the presidency possesses a strong soul, a european soul. and if you ask me to summarise today’s state of the union speech in only three words, i would say: ‘together. resilient. europe’. the exact motto of the slovenian eu council presidency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr von der vring, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). in the summer, all europeans received a vaccine offer. we have secured the employment of millions of workers with the european short-term wage, and thus guaranteed the livelihood of many families. we have put together a unique show of solidarity with the corona rebuilding fund. we are giving 750 billion euros to help member states to combat the economic and social consequences of the coronavirus pandemic. they said it: this year, at the latest next year, all the member states of the european union will be back to at least the economic strength they had before the pandemic. this also has to do with the fact that all member states know: the corona rebuilding fund is a unique opportunity that every country must seize. but now we see that the left wing here in parliament wants to keep all these instruments in place. the left wants to introduce new transfers from one country to another through a banking union. they want a banking union in which, in the event of doubt, our german savers are also liable for misconduct in other member states without adequate safeguards. they want a permanent instrument for collective debt collection. and this obviously has the support of the german spd finance minister and chancellor candidate olaf scholz. they want to turn this european stability union into a debt union. they want to take away, redistribute and patronize. we want a union of solidarity, freedom and responsibility. a european union that protects and offers opportunities to people. a european union that is always in solidarity when necessary. a european union where performance is rewarded and everyone is responsible for his or her actions. and that is precisely the difference between our stability union and their debt union. and that is the battle we will be fighting in this parliament in the coming weeks and months. but this is also the question we are debating in germany in the forthcoming elections to the bundestag. and that is what we should be telling the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are leaving behind difficult months, but they have taught us a hard lesson. the pandemic on the one hand and the afghan crisis on the other have shown, once again, that the challenges of our time can only be met by a united, strong and supportive europe. a europe that is aware of its role in the world. the return to national sovereignty is simply a currency out of circulation today. we are now at the tip of the spear of this legislature. the next two and a half years will be crucial in giving europe a new impetus and a new impetus. we have put in place an extraordinary tool like the next generation eu to get our economies and our societies moving again, but we cannot aim to go back to square one. that is why we must have the courage to put an end to the austerity era and its rules, first of all, by a comprehensive reform of our economic governance system, which cannot do without a permanent fiscal capacity for europe and the integration into the european semester of the un's sustainable development goals, the green deal and the social pillar, which must be indispensable objectives for development that is environmentally sustainable and socially equitable. a europe that is more solid and supportive, however, is also one that does not turn its back on the cry of pain of the afghan people as it has done so far, and which, together with the opening of humanitarian corridors and a reform of migration and asylum policy, knows how to put aside selfishness and take the lead in dealing with international crises with a european foreign and defence policy at last. president von der leyen, we supported you two and a half years ago by asking you to rise to the challenges we faced. even more so today, we ask you to lead europe through this decisive step without any missteps, precisely because, as bebe vio says, 'if it seems impossible, then it can be done'.
mr president, i say to the president of the commission: the pandemic has shown that when european institutions take the lead in facing common challenges, the eu can deliver results: vaccine development and purchase, the covid certificate, next generation eu. despite some initial flaws, what has been achieved so far is truly remarkable. with the terrible contradiction though, that we now have millions of doses waiting in the freezers while in many other countries vaccination has hardly begun. so we need to step up our solidarity. if we were to face all the big challenges with the same leadership and determination, then as a union we would achieve much more. and we don’t lack challenges. for instance, many of our european companies are in a race against time to maintain their competitiveness despite growing demand. they face rising energy and raw material prices, shortage of components, unfair competition from third countries. and we cannot achieve the goals of the green deal without them. let’s support our industry with an ambitious strategy. let’s translate the strategic autonomy into something more than just fancy words. on another note, ms von der leyen, today the catalan and spanish governments are formally resuming negotiations on how to solve the ongoing political conflict between catalonia and spain. i know you will argue that this is an internal matter, but we both know this is not entirely true. the eu should follow this negotiation and embrace it as much as it can, because in a democratic space, as we want the eu to be, conflicts on sovereignty require a democratic and negotiated solution. other, authoritarian-like responses, have no place in our union.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, you have given us the pleasure of an endless speech, as usual, on the state of the union. it's obvious you're happy with yourself, but you're the only one. on immigration, 2015 was already marked by the blunders and failures of the european institutions. today, the situation is becoming more and more catastrophic and the pressure on our external borders is increasing. lithuania and poland are facing a hybrid aggression, manipulated by foreign powers. they respond with strong measures. will you finally and clearly support them rather than defend your pact on migration and asylum, which adds laxity to impotence? in the south, turkey is continuing to put pressure on greece and cyprus. brussels responded with a few snubs, hoping to appease erdoğan. today we are in danger of experiencing waves of migrants from afghanistan. the taliban's victory, on the other hand, is first and foremost the spectacular failure of those who thought that the western democratic model could be exported anywhere on the planet. as several lucid european heads of state and government have said, the mistakes of 2015 must not be repeated. we must organise the retention of afghan refugees in neighbouring countries and in no way allow them to come to europe. it is time, for example, to hold pakistan to account. pakistan, whose regime is almost openly islamist, pakistan, which benefits from the trade and economic advantages of the european union and is therefore indebted to us in this capacity. mrs von der leyen, you said that it was our responsibility to welcome afghan migrants. no, you can't! your responsibility is to ensure the stability of europe and the security of europeans. and i am amazed to hear some of your commissioners begging the taliban to be inclusive and even consider aid to afghanistan. so the ideologues in brussels are ready to talk to the taliban, but they want to impose ever more sanctions on hungary and poland. we are witnessing a worrying radicalization and we can clearly see that the rule of law is being used as a real pretext to interfere and impose societal whims on education, health and the family. the commission is now betraying the commitments made by the council a few months ago to poland and hungary on the conditionality mechanism. it is using the post-covid recovery as a means of pressure, and the upcoming mission of our parliament's committee on freedoms to budapest already looks like a real political trial. the state of the union is certainly a sad sight.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european union is trying to resolve its disputes with the countries of central europe by using force. this is unacceptable. let us not forget that the representatives of the european ideological establishment look down on us with the superiority of the colonial powers, and they do look down on us, but we do not complain. or that they are attacking us politically and legally on all kinds of pretexts, and then 70 million people in central europe, and they are attacking us very hard, but we are not complaining. i want to say that all that they are doing, that they are abusing the power of brussels to impose their will on us in an undemocratic and illegal way with gender, with migration, with the curtailment of our national and constitutional sovereignty, with the imperialist tendencies of brussels, all this is seriously undermining and even breaking the unity of the union. and for us, freedom-loving and patriotic central europeans, european cooperation and the unity of the union are too important to allow it to be systematically dismantled.
thank you very much, the chairman of the board, the honorable mrs. von der leyen. i think the most important issue of the last year is, of course, the climate action package presented by the european commission, which is four thousand pages long and says that we should save the world. i understand that perhaps the european commission, perhaps the president of the commission, really does believe that the 440 million people of europe can turn the rivers back, as the soviet union once wanted to do, while china, india, the developing countries, the industrialized countries obviously do not share this plan. then our citizens -- our people -- will pay for this fun, which is unlikely to get us anywhere, much less save the climate. as some colleagues have already mentioned, in estonia, for example, electricity prices have reached their highest level in the last couple of decades in recent days, and they are only going up. we know that if we tax aviation fuel, for example, multiple times, then members of parliament here or the president of the commission can continue to travel comfortably, go from one point to another, but the average person who hopes to go on a family holiday once a year will go once every three years or he will pay for it. not to mention industrial development, competitiveness with the other great powers. we are destroying our own industry and entrepreneurship. finally, mrs von der leyen toyed with the idea of a european union common force and army. i would remind you, mrs. von der leyen, that you were the german minister of defense and we know what happened to the bundeswehr at that time. it didn't do very well and the german defense capability was dropping again and again. i do not want the european commission to decide on military matters, that is the responsibility of each member state and the european commission better not stick its finger in it leave us alone! thank you, and have a nice day.
madam president, for many years we have known that surveillance technology exists, but the pegasus scandal shows that rather than only being carried out by a limited number of state actors, advanced surveillance technology is now available to any client of the unregulated global spyware industry. the 50 000 people targeted by nso group spyware includes leading politicians, human rights activists, journalists, lawyers and other political dissidents. this raises serious concerns for democracy around the world. it is crucial that in this house, we treat this scandal with the appropriate level of urgency it deserves. we should gather information and evidence, and present our conclusions. while the technology cannot be rolled back, we can take steps to regulate the surveillance industry and set a global standard. just to remind the house, already in 2019, the then un special rapporteur on freedom of expression, david kaye, called for a moratorium on the transfer of spyware until international control and a legal framework were in place.
gender-based violence is a serious violation of fundamental rights and freedoms it affects the whole of society and threatens the health and safety of society. it cannot be tolerated in silence, but it must be resisted. today we have the opportunity to do so at european union level. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the deputy rapporteur for their very factual and up-to-date report, which, among other things, deals with the root causes of gender-based violence. gender-based violence affects women and girls in particular, but also members of the lgbti community. the latter is facilitated by the norms of sound based on patriarchal stereotypes. the covid-19 pandemic has seen an increase in gender inequality and an increase in incidents of intimate partner violence. it is therefore particularly important today to support the report and to support the criminalisation of gender-based violence in europe. my dear colleagues, vote in favour of this! every vote counts!
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, it’s not the first time that the united states intervenes in european matters in the area of the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy. they have put pressure on poland, for example, in the case of the lex tvn, which we discussed yesterday. they’ve put pressure on hungary for violation of fundamental rights. but imposing sanctions is actually a whole different ballgame – i also wonder if the magnitsky act is the correct instrument for this. this should wake us up. dear commissioner, i hear you say ‘it is for the member states to fight corruption and the european commission, the european union, will support this’. but it’s a ridiculous situation. we know that there is corruption in many member states and there are member states which are vulnerable, including my own. yet, the european commission says, ‘oh, you know, this is a national matter’. we have a third country, a non—eu country, imposing sanctions. this should wake us up. this shows that there is a problem with the way that the european union functions. i think there’s also a problem with the way the european commission operates. i think the commission is lax and slow and hands—off and too intergovernmental, basically. the commission should decide: is it serving the citizens or is it serving the governments? if it’s serving the citizens, then it should be much more actively fighting corruption, because corruption is, poison. europe has to keep its own house in order. now, this house has always been very active. the european parliament democracy rule of law fundamental rights monitoring group is monitoring a range of countries: malta, slovakia and also bulgaria – we will be travelling there next week – and slovenia. but we have also raised questions to the netherlands, the czech republic, spain, the greek authorities, etc., etc. i am glad to hear that the commission, as of next year, will include country—specific recommendations in the rule of law report, but that is clearly not enough. the commission, under the pressure of the same member states, has abolished the annual corruption report. i think that was a very bad sign. but there are sufficient instruments at your disposal. it’s also a question of enforcement. here again, we see that the commission is bowing to pressure of the member states. it has been raised by the previous colleague. there is the cvm. since 15 years, the commission has been monitoring. so what has been achieved? it cannot be that the commission says ‘everything’s fine, progress is being made’ and then the us is imposing sanctions. there is a gap here that cannot be explained. the commission is not doing enough. the commission should face up to the member states, serve the citizens and fight corruption, because corruption is poison.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, commissioner, of course, there’s no doubt that corruption is bad; corruption is always bad. but the problem is how to fight that and what are the right mechanisms? what can we really use? some speakers before me have mentioned that the sanctions from the us against bulgaria is coming to the internal questions in europe. of course, we have to remember that there is a united states of america but there is no united states of europe. so bulgaria is an independent country and the us is an independent country. so it depends on the relations between those two countries. so it’s not illegal to put all the sanctions against some member states of the eu. the second thing with corruption: very often the biggest problem with corruption is that the small fish are in a trap, but the big fish are just swimming in the ocean freely. of course, there is a problem in bulgaria, there’s no doubt – also in romania. but if we are really thinking that we really can change something inside of some other country, i think we are wrong. at the beginning of the 90s there was a huge corruption problem, also in estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland. and today i just checked the results from last year’s polls – the polls where they’re asking in all the member states about how do you feel about the corruption rate? are there any problems inside society? do the police ask you for money? i think if i’m right, estonia and finland had the lowest rate of corruption. so it means that if you really want to change something, it has to come from inside the country. but very often i see in some countries – like ukraine, bulgaria, romania – that the people are of course saying that, yeah, we have a huge problem with corruption; the politicians are just stealing the money. but at the same time, when they are going to the doctor, they’re used to taking eur 10 for the doctor and thinking: hey, maybe i can just get better service than the others. so i think the only thing the eu can really do is just to control the money, what comes from european taxpayers’ money, and at the same time, every country has to fight itself against corruption. and the last thing that i would like to mention, as i mentioned about the big fish, is that the european court of auditors makes reports every year about how we are spending the taxpayers’ money from europe. i would like to focus more also on the taxpayers’ money that goes to third countries. every year we send money to africa, to the middle east, and we don’t really control where the money really goes. the court of auditors has said several times that we don’t have any overview how they’re really spending hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers’ money.
mr. president, the cornerstone of american policy is still the speech that abraham lincoln gave on november 19, 1863, at gettysburg. and in it he said: in america, all people are equal and government is supposed to be for the people, by the people, and of the people. and that cornerstone is shared by us and the united states. that's why they're one of our most important allies, despite our differences. we share with the united states not only these fundamental freedoms but also nato. the united states pays 70% of the nato budget, or about 4% of its gross domestic product. almost all european countries do not make it. they don't even pay the 2% standard. i therefore find it rather strange to advocate european defence when many countries, including the united states, are not meeting their financial obligations. i am therefore in favour of a strong european pillar in nato, especially now that we are witnessing the aggression of china and russia.
mr president, europe and the united states have always been allies, but it is no secret that, under donald trump, with the us acting more unilaterally, this friendship became much more difficult manage. with president biden, a man who believes in multilateral solutions, there is a renewed sense of hope for improved relations. the us is in the process of redefining itself on the international stage, and the eu must take this new approach into consideration as we move forward, working together on areas of common interest, not just about deepening trade, but also on defending democratic principles, human rights, cooperation on cybersecurity and, of course, the planet’s greatest challenge: climate change. i agree with increased interparliamentary cooperation in particular in this regard, but we must also stand firm on matters of importance to europeans. lastly, we are now entering a crucial phase with the northern ireland protocol and we heard yesterday the brash words at the tory party conference. however, it has heartened me to hear the strong words from president biden on the protocol. an irishman never forgets his roots, and joe biden is very proud of his irish roots. maith thú, joe.
mr president, this summer’s withdrawal from afghanistan, followed by the formation of the aukus pact between australia, the uk and the us, without due consultation between allies, we all agree were nothing short of an affront. the lesson to be drawn from this is that as long as we lack credible political will to back our own security commitments, or as long as we cannot speak as one on foreign policy, the eu is only strong when embedded in alliances. our open strategic autonomy is fundamentally linked to our capacity to take up leading roles in standard setting with like—minded partners. therefore, i am glad that last week’s first meeting of the trade and technology council produced hopeful results, against all odds. i urge the eu to seize this window of opportunity for deepened bilateral collaboration, for example, to combat distortive trade practices, including in the framework of the world trade organization (wto). when the eu and the us are fighting each other, beijing and the kremlin rejoice. and only when the eu and the us work together on setting standards for the 21st century, the world pays attention.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, hr/vp borrell had to leave to speak to the parliament’s conference of committee chairs so i will close this debate on his behalf. your report and the debate today bear testimony to your continued interest and engagement on the future of the transatlantic relationship. the challenges facing the world at this time are significant. you mentioned a number of them, for instance on china. the eu and us are facing similar challenges related to china’s growing assertiveness. this is why hr/vp borrell and us state secretary blinken launched the eu–us dialogue on china in march this year. on trade and technology. the recent pittsburgh meeting was an opportunity for a strategic discussion on the future of ttc, defining programmes for 10 working groups and announcing deliverables in five areas: export control, ai, semiconductors, investment screening and global trade challenges. stability and prosperity on both sides of the atlantic, and beyond, will be enhanced by our ability to work together, which is part of the eu’s strategic autonomy. having the capacity to act autonomously when and where necessary, and with partners including the us, wherever possible. therefore, together, we have the opportunity and a responsibility to collaborate on the key challenges of our day. safeguarding the health and well-being of our people, like the recent croatia visa waiver shows, and our planet, supporting and encouraging democratic values and promoting international peace, security and economic prosperity for all. thank you for your important contribution and your support for our work.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, i would like to say that i am grateful to the shadow rapporteurs for their truly constructive cooperation. i also want to thank the committee on international trade (inta) for their opinion work that complemented this report very much. i have just returned from a fact—finding mission to the united states, where i gathered the last information to prepare a report for the final vote tomorrow. the main finding from the visit is that the transatlantic relationship, as known for most of the post-second world war period, needs reinvention. a combination of building back better at home, a shift towards more foreign policy restraint, us unpredictability due to domestic polarisation, and reorientation to china and asia confirm that the transatlantic relationship can no longer be taken for granted. we need to redefine and rebalance a relationship that still can, and should, contribute to shaping the world, along with a full—fledged democratic alliance. i have heard many concrete suggestions during the debate today. it’s clear that the us remains our most important strategic partner, but the time for nostalgia is shrinking. the sooner we accept the new reality, the better the chances are to reinvent this critical relationship on a more equal footing. we have to go beyond defence and trade cooperation and work together to reinforce the multilateral system, cooperate on climate change, the global response to the health crisis and the protection of democratic standards and fundamental rights. the european union is a union of states, whereas the united states is the united states. my main take from today is that the internal cohesion of the european union is of crucial importance for our position and perception in the multipolar world. finally, throughout this mandate, we listen to the ambitions of this commission to be a geopolitical commission. the relationship with the us is perhaps the best test of that ambition, and we have no time to lose in fulfilling it.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, 5 october 2021. the final vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, 6 october 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the us is and will remain the eu's closest and most important strategic partner, with whom we must work towards a new strong transatlantic alliance, always in line with the promotion of policies and values that are very dear to us. at the same time, it is equally vital that we, the eu, can take a strategically autonomous and more assertive stance in protecting and pursuing our political, economic and social interests in the world. we must not lose sight of the work we can and must do together with the united states for peace in the world order, democracy, human rights, the environment, global health and a common security and defence policy. and in that sense, it is important that we are very clear about what we want for the future of our relationships, and it is essential to underline the idea that in this relationship we must always be seen as equal partners.
written. the close cooperation and strategic relationship between the european union and its member states and the united states is based on a common history and shared democratic values. in the coming period, geopolitical relations will increasingly be defined by the ability to master new technologies such as artificial intelligence and to set global technological standards in line with shared values. the establishment of the trade and technology council as a platform for transatlantic cooperation in the field of technology development can make a significant contribution to the revitalisation of relations. the extraordinary technological advances we are witnessing raise a number of ethical and political questions in their application. one problematic example is the use of biometrics in the development of the chinese social scoring system designed to score citizens based on their social and financial behavior. the data required for scoring is collected using surveillance cameras, social networks and other databases. he believes that such practices have no place in democratic societies, and i see the transatlantic trade and technology council as the democratic core of the emerging digital future.
in writing. i did. nato and the transatlantic relationship play an important role in ensuring stability and security in europe. this requires closer foreign policy coordination and cooperation with the us in various areas such as russia, the eastern partnership, the western balkans, cyber defence, etc. a good example is the renewed eu-us dialogue on china. in view of all that is happening in the world, such as the fight against the covid-19 pandemic, climate change and also disinformation, it is important to work with like-minded countries, in particular to strengthen transatlantic cooperation.
in writing. the strategic partnership between the european union and the united states of america (us) was instrumental in ensuring a multilateral vision inspired by the values of democracy and freedom after the end of the cold war. the election of joe biden gave a new impetus to this partnership, after the retreat generated by the erratic stance of donald trump. however, the handling of the afghanistan withdrawal and the security agreement between the us, australia and the uk without a joint strengthening of the atlantic partnership, constituted a sign of a worrying bias in american foreign policy, tied to a selfish vision and focused on tensions in the indo-pacific. this view ignores the fact that values and security are neither regionalizable nor nationalizable and that, in order to assert and consolidate themselves at national and regional level, they must be achieved globally. the european union must be clear and strong in its openness to assert its economic and political weight to ensure a multilateral global order of openness and cooperation and shared security. sharing with strategic autonomy and frank negotiation, but with clear objectives. democracy and freedom are not negotiable goods.
in writing. a renewed and strengthened transatlantic partnership in all relevant policy areas, one that remains based on shared values and interests and on the conviction that transatlantic cooperation and solidarity is the best lever to address numerous and diverse global challenges in favour of a multilateral and rules-based international order with the un and international law at its core. as chairman of the ep delegation for relations with the nato parliamentary assembly, i attach particular importance to transatlantic cooperation in the field of security and defence. it is important to reaffirm that nato is and remains the foundation of europe's collective defence and to stress equally strongly that the european union must invest more and better in defence self-reliance. the strengthening of european defence and the strengthening of nato are two aspects of the same ambition, and it is therefore rightly stressed that cooperation between the eu and nato should be taken to a higher level. the work on the eu strategic compass and the nato strategic concept provides a unique opportunity to do so.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission, mr ylva johansson, on the situation in belarus one year after the start of the protests and their violent suppression (2021/2881 (rsp)).
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president thank you, dear members of the european parliament, on behalf of hr/vp borrell and myself, let me thank this parliament for your relentless efforts to support the people of belarus and for your support of our work. the eu remains united in face of the brutal repression and the continuing provocations by the lukashenko regime and in support of the belarusian people. last time belarus was addressed in this ep plenary was on 8 june, after the lukashenko regime forced a ryanair flight between two eu capitals to land, in order to arrest a journalist and his companion. less than two weeks later the foreign affairs council adopted a robust package of sanctions against 78 individuals, eight entities and seven sectors of the economy. one year after the fraudulent elections, the situation in belarus remains dire. the lukashenko regime continues its systematic efforts to silence all remaining independent voices in the country – independent press, human rights defenders and civil society at large. prominent representatives of the opposition to lukashenko have been condemned to long prison sentences in political trials conducted behind closed doors. there are now more than 700 political prisoners in the country – a number that continues to increase. the oppression and persecution of the belarusian people is utterly unacceptable. so what are we doing to respond to lukashenko? from the very outset, the eu provided a package of emergency assistance to the victims of repression and state violence and to independent media, and we supported the legitimate quest of the belarusian people for rule of law and free and fair elections. we continue to work for justice for victims and accountability for perpetrators. we continue to raise the human rights situation in all relevant international fora, leading international reactions against lukashenko’s brutal and illegal actions. we also want to send a message of hope and assurance of our continued support to the people of belarus. therefore, we have published a plan for a eur 3 billion economic and investment package in support of a democratic belarus that we will activate if and when the country changes its current course. the state-run instrumentalisation of migrants is another worrying example of lukashenko’s blatant disregard of international norms. people and air routes are being sourced by the regime and imported to belarus. this year we have seen already more than 6 000 irregular arrivals coming across the belarus—eu border, compared to barely 150 last year. people originally from iraq, but also from congo, cameroon, syria. belarus is not on any known migration route from these countries. belarus is not a country under migratory pressure. people normally seek asylum from belarus, not in belarus. the regime is using human beings in an unprecedented way to put pressure on the european union and making a lot of money as well. people come in trips organised by the state tourist company centrkurort, stay in state-approved hotels, pay a deposit of many thousand dollars, which they never get back. they lure people to minsk, who are then transported towards the border in unmarked minivans by men in unmarked uniforms. lukashenko’s desperation is evidence that sanctions are hurting. each day reinforces the impression that these are frenetic steps from a regime that can see the tide of history turning. his goal is to destabilise the european union, but he has gravely miscalculated. our response has been one of unity and solidarity and action, a response that has been noted both by global partners and our allies in minsk. our relentless outreach to partners is working. we are observing a sharp drop in irregular arrivals from belarus in recent weeks. hr/vp borrell has been key in persuading iraq to stop all flights from baghdad to minsk, and now we are reaching out to other countries of origin in africa whose citizens are being misled and victimised by lukashenko. we must be firm against lukashenko and we must be clear with partner countries. one predictable element is that the weather will take a turn for the worse. people should not put themselves at risk. in direct response to these unprecedented actions, the action plan against migrant smuggling the commission presented last week, called this new and serious development by its name: state-sponsored migrant smuggling. and we have proposed to the council to partially suspend the visa facilitation agreement for government officials from belarus, while keeping the benefits of visa facilitation for the people of belarus. the eu has shown its full solidarity with our member states. i visited lithuania in august. we activated our agencies emergency assistance and the union’s civil protection mechanism. lithuanian authorities have worked very well with european partners. i thank them for their transparency, their european approach. and last week i visited poland, where i discussed the provocations at the border with interior minister kamiński and the recent tragic deaths at the borders. i learnt a lot about the situation and my main message is, and was, we must protect our shared borders with shared eu resources based on shared values. we must stand firm and united towards lukashenko, and we must do it in a way that shows that we, the european union, are based on other values, on the rule of law and in full respect of the fundamental rights. we must protect our borders and our values. we agreed in warsaw last week that a delegation from my services arriving tomorrow will visit poland to continue discussions. dear members, let me conclude by stressing that countering disinformation from the lukashenko regime remains key. we need to keep strengthening communication and awareness-raising efforts in parallel to our support to the belarusian democratic forces. the european union stands by the belarusian people now, and we will do so in the future.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, there is no single article in the universal declaration of human rights that the lukashenko regime has not broken. and, again, my appreciation and solidarity go to the belarusian people, civil society and the democratic opposition, who have endured and continue the heroic struggle for a future democratic belarus. the lukashenko regime is in full denial and self-solation, but courted by a neighbour in the east. after refusing cooperation with the european union, lukashenko is on his way to fulfil the following threats: to flood the european union with migrants, drugs and even nuclear waste. for several months now lithuania, latvia and poland have been under massive hybrid attack, as the lukashenko regime instrumentalises irregular migrants in revenge for the eu sanctions. dear colleagues, lukashenko sees no boundaries. his rule and act on behalf of the belarusian people have no legitimacy. lukashenko is a former president of belarus. he has no right to bargain with the sovereignty of belarus. in addition to the brutal repression against the people of belarus, lukashenko commits acts of state terrorism, all of which fall within the definition of universal jurisdiction and require prompt decisions from the international community and the european union in particular. i call on the european union to come up with next, effective and regime’s behaviour—changing sanctions to stop lukashenko’s crackdown on belarusian people and its hybrid attacks on neighbouring eu member states. zhyve belarus!
on behalf of the group id. thank you to the chairman, the honourable mrs johansson! since i have two and a half minutes, i'll speak calmly so that the translators can translate, because often there are problems with translation, where some of the text is not in place. first of all, belarus is a very complex issue. as regards democracy, several speakers, good lithuanian colleagues, have stressed the need for new elections in belarus, democratic elections, and that lukashenka is not the legitimate president. in principle, yes, we can agree with this. yes, democratic elections are necessary, but if i were to be very careful, it is that not only the countries of the european union, but also the western countries in general have tried to somehow artificially export democracy to third countries, so we are going to teach some countries how they should live their daily lives. i was in belarus a few years ago for a few days on an official visit with members of the national parliament and of course it is not an election like in estonia or germany or any other european country, but at the same time i would not take the right to go and tell them exactly how you have to live now, or i would try to interfere as little as possible in the internal affairs of the countries. the second issue, however, is the threat posed by countries such as belarus. i am very pleased that now, thanks to belarus, in a funny way, mrs johansson has also repeatedly said that illegal immigration, which is being tolerated by belarus, is unacceptable, it is criminal. and also, the message from the european commission has been clear that physical barriers are one effective way to take away the work of traffickers. perhaps the belarusian regime is taking advantage of our weakness now, and our weakness is that we have not invested enough in the last 20 or 30 years in protecting our own external borders, and only now have we discovered that the border fence between latvia and belarus or lithuania and belarus has no physical barrier to prevent crossing from there. this is completely unacceptable. as well as the border between estonia and russia, [where] there is not enough physical barrier, so i am very happy that the trend has changed, and i hope that the european commission will also finally approve the use of european union funds to build physical barriers. thank you very much.
mr. chairman of the board! first of all, i would like to thank my good colleague, mr urmas paet, for a very relevant and timely report. the new reality is that the number of cyberattacks is constantly increasing, with attacks becoming increasingly sophisticated and attackers becoming increasingly intelligent. in this context, i would like to stress three aspects. first, member states must do their homework, because the strength of the european union's cybersecurity is determined by its weakest link. secondly, cooperation between the european union and nato must eventually start working, starting with information exchange and ending with joint training. thirdly, the european union, together with other like-minded countries, must continue to have a leading voice in the interpretation and adaptation of international law. this is not easy, because there is an ideological divide internationally that also translates into international law, but legal clarity is an integral part of cybersecurity, as is identifying and holding accountable those responsible. in conclusion, we can and must do everything we can to stay a few steps ahead of malicious attackers. thank you.
madam president, the system is rigged, the commission is responsible, and we cannot afford the greed of big corporations. the profitability of the big producers is absurd and scandalous, and the commission and the governments protect it. the privatisations that have taken place in the energy sector, such as those of edp and ren in my country, and which the commission and the governments are protecting, are absurd and scandalous. speculation in the carbon market is absurd and scandalous, and the commission and governments protect it. the energy poverty is scandalous, where last winter 36 million households could not heat their homes, and the commission and governments do nothing. we need to treat energy as a common good. it is urgent to accelerate the transition to renewable energy and end our dependence on fossil fuels. but the most absurd and scandalous thing about all this is that the commission and the governments are still on the side of the big corporations and not the people.
madam president, the soaring prices of energy, fuel, consumer goods are not temporary. the very expensive electricity due to the liberalised energy market by the european union and governments is becoming inaccessible. it is the result of the green transition strategy with a quadrupling of the energy price due to desalination, the very expensive natural gas and the promotion of the monoculture of renewable energy, with the trade of pollutants as a tool. the green eu fines and taxes, the recovery fund subsidies for the groups, all paid for by the people, as well as the toolkits of measures in the name of punctuality. the common denominator of expansionary and restrictive policies is profit-seeking and exploitation. the myth that capitalist competition would bring poverty, good jobs and growth for all is shattered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is up to them to intensify the struggle for the abolition of all predatory indirect taxes, substantial increases in wages and pensions, for energy to be a social good and not a commodity, to claim power and an economy based on their own interests.
madam president, madam commissioner, energy prices are rising extraordinarily - as we know - and are seriously harming consumers, businesses and industries, and are also causing damage because the increase in inflation is also largely due to this. winter is coming and the situation is going to drag on. the increases are explained by factors such as a sharp increase in demand, problems in global supply chains, dependence on foreign countries, high co2 prices that have skyrocketed, and low natural gas reserves. in the short term, our energy dependence greatly limits our scope for action, but it does not make it impossible. we can mitigate the impacts by compensatory measures such as tax reductions or exemptions for certain types of consumers, by monitoring free competition between operators and by eliminating non-energy-related fees and charges on electricity bills. the latter aspect is very relevant and in spain it constitutes an important part of the bill which raises the price very high and seriously harms individuals, industries and companies, so it is important to solve it. in the long term, it is necessary to create a favourable investment climate, make good use of the recovery mechanism, increase interconnections, promote further digitalisation of the sector and, crucially, make an energy transition in a flexible way that allows our industrial capacity to be strengthened and the competitiveness of the economy to be strengthened.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of analysis has been done on the rise in energy prices. i think it's time for proposals. i would like to make four very concrete proposals to the commission and the council, which we should put into effect immediately. first of all: european coordination is needed in storage and subsequent distribution. so we are creating a european strategic reserve. secondly, the same coordination must be achieved for gas purchases. we know that it is not the vaccines, but we also know that the principle is the same, which is to make europe stronger, tougher if you will, in the negotiation, in the purchasing phase, compared to the supplying countries and also to their "geopolitical" games. thirdly: if we are to diversify our sources of supply and increase the amount of renewable energy, madam commissioner, the relationship with africa is crucial: the european union is also supporting the energy transition in north africa and sub-saharan africa. proposal number four: it is not revolutionary but it is a proposal for transparency and clarity. we are freeing the energy field from purely financial speculation. i'm talking about the ets, which we're going to reform: co2 emission allowance prices should be determined by market mechanisms between energy operators and industries that use those allowances, and not by those who use the ets as a bullish stock game for easy profits, preventing them from giving that signal of stable, and sometimes rising, prices that serves to accompany companies towards the environmental energy transition. i therefore propose that access to the ets be restricted to purely financial operators and entities.
i have to say, madam president, the timing couldn't be worse. we are on the verge of perhaps the most crucial climate summit ever. we are faced with the ambitious package of legislation known as the green pact, and we are already behind schedule. there are many explanations for the rising energy prices we are discussing here today, and i fully understand the concerns. but the back says we simply lack green electricity. we have not developed renewable energy in time, nor have we been good enough to save energy, including in all buildings. renewable energy is the cheapest form of energy we know today. it is far cheaper to produce green electricity from wind and solar than from coal and gas. so the long-term answer to the short-term challenges we face is to get it built - and fast. but that again requires that we get the necessary permits to produce more renewable energy. if we do not, we will not succeed either in our climate goals or in making europeans safe and secure and warm as they head into the cold winters.
thank you, mr. chairman. i had prepared a rather decent english speech, but when i saw that the commission was personally represented by kadri simson, who is from estonia, we naturally preferred to speak in estonian. i heard the speech. at the fourth minute of mrs. samson's speech, she said, "the only solution to the energy crisis and rising prices is a greenhouse effect". the green deal is the only solution. and many speakers here, because, well, this is not a very logical house, this is a house that generally follows ideology and fanaticism, not arguments and economic logic, then demands that we need to increase independence, reduce gas supplies, reduce the use of fossil fuels, increase green energy. and it kind of brings down prices and makes life better. well, it's all this powder and cabbage that just doesn't make sense. first of all, sun and wind just aren't enough. it's not enough for bmw to stay in germany, not move to hungary with a factory, which they're doing now. it is not enough to keep the price down, because it is much more expensive to produce. but it's okay to criticize, but you have to offer solutions. the solution is obvious. as my good belgian colleague said, nuclear energy is like being put under a i don't know what kind of a field. this is bad. germany shut down its nuclear plants simply because of a small glitch in fukushima. this has destroyed energy independence and now they are asking for coal and gas from russia, which is manipulating the europeans. it's not normal, but my time is up anyway. thank you to kadri samson! you're a reasonable man, you understand things, so use your reason, not your ideology.
mr president, the rule of law crisis is the single biggest threat to the european union, and disintegration has already set in today. and yet the european council flatly refuses to tackle the matter, which is unsurprising as the main offenders are actually sitting on that same european council. even today, government leaders irresponsibly prefer to appease the autocrats, keeping the matter off the agenda. president von der leyen, you are ‘concerned’, but you haven’t announced any action. the commission has a duty to protect the treaties, and this house has a duty to hold the commission to account. we expect the commission to do whatever it takes to halt the destruction of the rule of law. anything less would amount to a dereliction of duty, and that would merit the ultimate political consequence because debates and resolutions demanding action sound hollow without consequences, consequences for autocrats, but also for the enablers of autocrats. so, colleagues, we speak firm language today, but are we ready to go beyond words if necessary?
mr. chairman of the board! the president of the commission, ms von der leyen, and the prime minister of poland, mr morawiecki. let us not forget that the supremacy of european union law is not infinite, it has very clear limits! for example, when estonia joined the european union, the people voted in a referendum to join the european union only on the condition that the fundamental principles of the estonian constitution, such as the perpetual preservation of the nation, language and culture, were protected. however, if the european union tries to excessively control the immigration, monetary or defence policies of the member states through the treaties, then unfortunately this is contrary to the basic principles of the estonian constitution and the basic principles of our constitution are in no way subject to the law of the european union. moreover, the estonian riigikogu has clearly stated in 2012 that if the european union decides to amend the treaties again, by which it gives even more decision-making power to the european union, it will demand a new referendum in estonia, as in this case the mandate to join the european union obtained in the 2003 referendum will no longer be relevant. therefore, the reaction of the european commission, the european parliament or several other member states criticizing the polish court's decision that some item of the polish constitution is incompatible with european union law is completely unacceptable. the european union must serve the interests of its member states, not the humble bowing of the member states to the european union. states came before the european union and they will come after it, and the current union is created by states, not by states. finally, i would like to stress that the european union is not the same as europe as a whole. european countries outside the european union are and will remain part of europe. the more the european commission or the federalists in the european parliament want to centralize decision-making and override the member states, the more the countries want to restore their sovereignty.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first, i do believe that it’s important that we have, for the first time ever, a chance to debate here and vote on a concrete set of comprehensive recommendations dedicated to the development of eu—taiwan ties. taiwan is an economically and technologically advanced democracy and as such it is for us a like—minded and valuable partner in a strategically important region. therefore, i believe it’s important to look for concrete ways to enhance our trade and economic relations, our cultural and youth exchange, industrial and technological cooperation, as well as intensify overall bilateral relations under the guidance of the one china policy. secondly, i agree fully with commissioner vestager in that any further escalation of tensions in the taiwan strait is bound to have deep negative effects on both regional and global security, as well as trade and the economy. in this regard, china’s increasingly aggressive rhetoric and military posturing are of considerable concern. this means that we must stay alert and be very clear in our condemnation of such escalatory steps. finally, i believe it’s imperative that we express full solidarity with lithuania, our fellow eu member state that has been targeted by chinese sanctions over the issue of setting up a taiwanese representative office. we should urge the vice president / high representative and the council to take all appropriate steps.
i will now put both proposals to the vote. (parliament agreed to the request by the renew and s&d groups)that means that the title is ‘the escalating humanitarian crisis on the eu-belarusian border, in particular in poland’. thursday with regard to the agenda for thursday, i would inform you that three reports on the request for the waiver of the immunity of members have been added directly to the votes. votes on the waiver of the immunity of fulvio martusciello, harald vilimsky and nils ušakovs have been added to the agenda. (the order of business was thus established) *******
ms melchior, thank you for this. i understand a lot of colleagues have written to the president and have received replies. this is a very broad and important discussion that we should take in the appropriate bodies of the parliament. it is in fact under discussion at the level of the different competent bodies, but point taken. thank you very much, ms melchior.
as mentioned in the email you received on monday, from this session we will start testing some of the measures proposed for the reform of plenary sessions, such as the possibility of having blue papers even for a short intervention and allowing 30-second follow-up questions. furthermore, during debates members are free to choose where they sit in the chamber, except for the first two rows which are assigned to the group leaders. members are therefore invited to take up their seats in the first rows of their groups. i would also like to remind the honourable members that the interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the centre stage, except for the 'catch-the-eye' interventions, the 'blue-card' questions and order of business. so please keep your eyes on the list of speakers and look toward the platform as the time for your talk approaches. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m.)
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the humanitarian situation at the border of belarus (2021/2964 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that you will be able to request a 'catch-the-eye' intervention and a 'blue card' question via your voting machine, after you have entered your voting document. therefore, i invite you to bring your voting document with you at all times. the instructions have been made available in the emicycle. if you wish to register for the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, please do so now, without waiting for the end of the debate.
we are still waiting for the arrival of the high representative. we will suspend for a couple of minutes and then we’ll start immediately. (after the arrival of the high representative)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the escalating humanitarian crisis on the eu-belarusian border, in particular in poland. high representative, i would like to welcome you.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, sorry for being late, but i’ve been called at short notice and i had to finish some previous agenda items before being able to free myself. i thank parliament for this call. everybody has seen the images of groups of people – let’s call them migrants – escorted by armed belarusian security forces towards the borders of the european union member states, with the aim to force irregular entries. these images are certainly shocking, and the situation can become worse and the images can be still more shocking. it’s clear that the belarusian authorities are using human beings as a tool for political purposes. they have given them false expectations and put them in a situation of extreme vulnerability. this summer, it started from iraq. iraqi people, mainly coming from kurdistan, were told that the doors of europe were open at the belarusian border and transported from baghdad to minsk and from minsk to the borders with poland and lithuania. i personally intervened with the foreign affairs minister of iraq, explaining what was happening and the risk that their people were facing, and i have to recognise that the iraqi authorities answered correctly, suspending the flights from baghdad to minsk. at the end of the summer, the situation looked under control. but in october, things began again at a larger scale, because even if the iraqi airways were still not flying, some of the small private companies were flying from baghdad and suddenly from many other airports in the middle east. many other parts of the middle east have been used as hubs to send people from syria, from iraq or afghanistan to belarus and from there to the european borders. we have been engaged in diplomatic outreach, alerting the countries of origin and transit about the situation, and asking them for cooperation in stopping this flow. to date, the external action service has been outreaching with 13 partner countries. as i said, i personally discussed this issue with the iraqi authorities and they took concrete measures, suspending direct flights and closing two honorary belarusian consulates in the country. but now, our outreach has to be much more extended because it is not point—to-point travel with a single or a couple of actors, it’s a whole network of destinations with transit countries, involving a lot of airlines and a lot of people. we continue our diplomatic outreach. the vice-president of the commission, mr schinas, will personally – because i cannot go, i cannot afford to travel to all these places just coming from latin america and this weekend we have the paris peace forum – but president von der leyen has charged commissioner schinas to go to abu dhabi, to beirut, to baghdad and erbil in the coming days. there are many other places. and later also to ankara to specifically discuss this crisis, which is putting the european union’s borders under pressure and at a cost of human suffering and human lives. we are also monitoring potential new routes and possible new flight connections, as well as developments in more than 20 countries where our delegations are asked to report. i also asked our delegations to embark on wide efforts of giving information to the people, explaining to the people in these countries that the promises of free entry to europe are fake; that they are being cheated, they’re being robbed, they’re being asked to pay usd 6 000-7 000 for a journey that goes nowhere. well the first thing to do is to try to inform these people, these potential victims of the smugglers, to tell them the truth. don’t go. don’t believe these people. don’t spend your money. don’t put your lives at risk. don’t do that. our delegations will do whatever they can in order to widely spread this information. but so many people are so desperate that maybe they don’t care and they are ready to take the risk. but our responsibility is to try to inform them as much as we can. also, our delegation in minsk, because we still have one, will get in touch with the belarusian authorities, although i suppose there is nothing to explain to them because they know perfectly what they are doing. what are they doing? they are using migrants as an instrument, accompanied by a widespread disinformation campaign to put pressure on our borders and create a humanitarian crisis. we are monitoring these information narratives, exposing and debunking them. we do whatever we can in order to inform them what it is about. in iraq it worked, but now people are flying from airports very close to the syrian refugee camps in jordan and lebanon. now they take these people from jordan and lebanon and a lot of charter flights are bringing these people to minsk. to address this situation, we have to see what is the scope of the existing sanctions regime on belarus and to expand it. we are studying how to expand it in order to adopt a new package of sanctions – it will be the fifth one – which will include those responsible for contributing to the ongoing crisis at our external borders. the european council meeting in october gave us a clear mandate in this regard. foreign affairs ministers will deal with this issue next monday. i want to say also that this crisis should not distract our attention from what’s behind the current escalation at the european union border. the lukashenko regime is a regime that is oppressing its own people, disregarding their fundamental freedoms and perpetrating human rights violations, systematically silencing all remaining independent voices in the country, free media, human rights defenders and civil society at large. since last august, more than 35 000 people have been arrested. we know of 830 political prisoners, and more than 270 ngos have been dissolved. representatives of the opposition and journalists have been sentenced to long prison sentences in closed trials. we must continue to be very active in this respect because the problem is the lukashenko regime. this is the problem and we have to go to the root of the problem: a regime that lacks any kind of respect for human dignity and human life. we have to promote an international accountability mechanism. we are thinking of mobilising the united nations framework to face this new crisis created by the lukashenko regime. on the other hand, this is a humanitarian crisis and it has to be dealt with as it is. and i am sorry to say that today, the organisations that deal with humanitarian crises cannot reach these people from either side of the border: not from the eu side nor from the belarusian side. certainly, these people are on the belarusian side, and the first one to allow free passage is the belarusian regime, which until now has been impossible. i’ve just been talking with filippo grandi. i agree with him that the situation is completely unacceptable because, you know, it’s winter, and you can imagine what can happen if thousands of people have to stay during low temperatures in the fields. no water, no food, no heating. it doesn’t happen thousands of kilometres away from us. it’s happening just on the other side of our border. so the first thing that we have to do is to get from the belarusian government an organisation that can provide humanitarian help, that can reach these people – to avoid images that can provoke big trouble among us. the second thing is to open a humanitarian corridor for these people coming back. they cannot cross the european union border by forcing the borders, but they cannot stay there forever. they need humanitarian help. they need a way out of the situation in which belarusians have put them, because they were perfectly aware of what they were doing. come, take a plane, i will bring you to the border. i will push you through the border and i will not let you go back. and they start shooting in the air in order to prevent these people going backwards. so a humanitarian corridor has to be opened in order to put these people back, and we have to get agreements with the origin countries in order for a safe return. but that is the migration part of the problem. what bothers all of us is first the humanitarian situation of these people, and second the grave geopolitical situation in which we are embarking in our relationship with the lukashenko regime. it is clear that it is an answer to our sanctions. you sanction me, i will create trouble for you. if i have to put people at risk to create this trouble, i will do so. and this is something completely unacceptable, and we have to mobilise all our resources in order to face this situation from any point of view – a humanitarian, geopolitical and migration point of view. i have reports from intelligence about the situation there. it has become worse and worse since the end of october. istanbul remains one of the main transit hubs for the migrants, and from dubai, from damascus, from jordan, from lebanon, planes, big planes – at the beginning they were small charters – then after they were big planes with 400 people on board. and these people explain their story. i’ve been proposed a nice holiday in belarus by travel agencies, and i will be provided with a way to go to europe. it costs usd 6 000-7 000, but i want to take the chance. nobody told them what was their real destination. so this is a severe crisis. it’s not a war, but it’s an attack. it’s a weaponisation of human beings, of the weakest human beings. the desperation of people looking for a better life makes some inhuman dictator use them as arms that can be thrown against a wall. and i am happy to have the opportunity to talk with the european parliament today in order to make you aware of what’s happening. we have to do whatever we can in order to provide humanitarian assistance to these people. i hope that filippo grandi will be able to push the belarusian government. we will do so as well. and then we have to look for a way out and then we have to continue fighting with a regime that is able to indulge in this kind of inhuman behaviour.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madame vice-president, mr high representative, the situation is serious, and the starting point of all discussions is that we have a clear picture about what is happening there. for us in the epp group, it is not, first of all, a migration crisis. for us in the epp group, it is, like josep borrell told us today, a hybrid attack against the european union. dictator lukashenko first fought the democratic opposition in his old country, brought people to prison, then reactivated sanctions again and now with this method he is increasing the pressure on the european union. it is a business model. the oligarch system in belarus is stabilised with such an approach. when we consider the migration dimension behind, please have a look at the figures in the baltic area. lithuania and latvia: all the cases which were there, registered and assessed even by the european asylum support office (easo), about more than 90% of all the cases were refused by the authorities. there is no legal ground as an asylum seeker or as a refugee to ask to stay inside of the european union. that is the reality. that is what is happening there. that is why our first message at the epp is: you cannot blackmail the european union. we will protect our borders, the state decides who is arriving and not smugglers and not a dictator. the second message from the epp is migrants are the victims of the development. they need to respect – we have to show respect, we have to respect – the european law. it is protecting their dignity and their rights. i want to applaud and thank our friends in lithuania and latvia, both epp-governed countries and both show together with easo, together with frontex, how to treat the people in a responsible, humanitarian way. that is not the case in poland. for the moment, the polish authorities are not respecting and accepting support from frontex. we have no transparency of what is going on along the border. that’s why my appeal is: please do it in a european way, let’s do it together. the third element is we have to stop the travel routes. thanks to the commission, margaritis schinas, josep borrell, we are active and talking with our partners in iraq . in turkey, i hope that this will bring results. i hope that they understand that they cannot support this smuggler business on european territory. we also have to remind the responsibility of the airlines. sorry, if somebody wants to earn money on european territory like turkish airlines or others, they have to understand that they cannot be part of such smuggler model, as is happening today. we probably have to deny the right to land on european airports if they are not willing anymore to work in a partnership-orientated way. the same goes for social media platforms, like facebook. they are misused by smugglers for their business model, and you have to be frank and honest with them: please stop this. so, there are a lot of activities needed for stopping the model of lukashenko. if i may comment on this debate about border protection, dear colleagues, nobody wants to have a fence. nobody. but i tell you, after we installed a fence between the turkish and greek border, the blackmailing from erdoğan stopped. it was charles michel, ursula von der leyen, david sassoli who travelled to the border and welcomed the engagement of the greek government to protect our border. again, nobody wants to have a fence or a wall. nobody. but if it there are technically no other ways possible to protect our borders then physical investments also must be possible. i’ll tell you, one of the oldest borders which we have is in ceuta and melilla, a high border, higher even than the mexican border. and that’s why i think that’s not what we want to see, but it is a reality in today’s life. let’s not be naive. that’s why we at the epp are also asking that in an extraordinary situation, eu funds must be available for financing this kind of activities. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, that is the problem we are facing currently in the european union and behind all of these activities we know and i thank really josep borrell for this clear statement, behind all these activities we have put in as the mastermind. it is a political dimension. it is a hybrid war against the european union. europe has to stay together. europe has together a unified answer and then we can defend our borders.
i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the european union must respond firmly to the gravity of the situation, without distorting the facts. the approximately two thousand men, women and children left to their fate, with temperatures below freezing and no access to water, food and shelter, do not represent a threat to our security, they are only victims of a cruel tyrant. do not be ambiguous in your search for solutions: state publicly before this house that the european union will never finance walls! we have other instruments at our disposal to put a stop to the drama at the polish-belarusian border: adopt without delay new sanctions against the lukashenka dictatorship, including measures against individuals and companies; ban airlines from flying to european territory if they are involved in the transport of migrants from third countries; and propose an appropriate financial plan to enable poland to respond immediately. the polish government should also allow access to un agencies and ngos to ensure the necessary humanitarian aid, and to the media to learn about the reality on the ground. they should take the measures they consider appropriate, but they should do so in accordance with european union law and international obligations, that is, with respect for human rights. the lukashenka regime cannot exempt us from the law that the tyrant insists on despising: hot returns are illegal and the right of asylum must prevail over any circumstance. the drama of migration is repeated before our eyes every day, without pause, with the same suffering, although in different ways. not only between poland and belarus, but also between greece and turkey, between italy and libya and between france and the united kingdom, with 6,000 people living in inhumane conditions in calais. we cannot accept that the only solution for a democratic and civilized europe is a state of mind united in impotence. we can't allow that. yesterday marked the thirty-second anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. a historic milestone in our integration project that always reminds us that walls never alleviate suffering, they only aggravate it. mr michel, mr weber, do not waste your efforts on erecting walls which have so many times buried the dignity of people on european soil. let us work together to overcome the broken promises of a common migration policy that respects human dignity. the suspension of fundamental rights at our border would only lead us to that state of wild nature in which human beings were imprisoned, expelled and humiliated. we cannot allow the rights that assist migrants and asylum seekers to sink in the very places where they should be respected, which is at the borders. the last presidencies have missed the opportunity to reach a consensus in the council to adopt a new pact on migration and asylum. if france does not achieve a common position during its presidency, the extreme will be achieving its objectives and its xenophobic programme will be the only beneficiary of the migration tragedy. and in the meantime, we will continue to cry out helplessly that human beings continue to risk their lives on our borders by land, sea and air.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president! i'll speak in polish at the beginning and i'll speak in english, ladies and gentlemen, because our eastern border is the border of the whole european union and what happens there - i agree with everyone whose opinion this is, and i share that opinion - is the matter of the whole european union. and only together with the european union can we solve this problem. we cannot live in a world where security excludes humanity, where we have a choice between security and humanity. people are dying on the eastern border of the european union. we must stop this madness of lukashenko all together, so we need more sanctions. as you know, dictators understand the language of power and of money, so sanctions against those persons who are responsible, but also against the economic interests of this very regime. and we need closer cooperation. i look at today's opinion polls from poland. the question was: should the polish government ask the european union for help in solving this humanitarian crisis? 82% of respondents say yes, 15% say no, and 3% have no opinion. so, my question to the prime minister of poland mr morawiecki is: why, mr prime minister morawiecki, are you, again, against the polish citizens? why do you refuse to invite frontex to the eastern european border, to our border? what's your real motivation? we must act together.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, mr borrell, first of all, many of us here, in this chamber, are saying that refugees and migrants have dreams and have the right to go wherever they want. i would like just recall that at end of the summer of 1944, about 10% of estonian population, about 100 000 people, mostly kids and women, escaped from the war because the soviet russians came to occupy. and where did they escape to? to sweden, the closest safe country where they could go. they didn’t buy tickets to fly to spain or to brazil, or the us. they escaped from the war to the closest safe country. today, what we see in the forest between belarus and poland, has nothing to do with refugees. if you buy tickets to fly to belarus and your main goal is go to germany, you are not a refugee. you have to understand that winter is coming, and winter in poland is not very nice. i know it very well, i am from estonia, so i know how cold it can be. that is the risk that you take. there is no responsibility for citizens in germany, or in estonia, or in poland for what they are doing. the second thing, i was really surprised by the first speaker, mr weber. that was the part of the realists. i can understand the idealists, also the turkish. the western europeans were so idealistic about the soviet union: everybody equal – equally poor, of course – it’s so nice, there is real equality. they were naive. that’s what i see today here: naivety. naive people who are talking about the freedom, the friendship, everybody so hand—to—hand together. but the real world is: at some point, you need fences. you need fences to protect your own main sovereignty, your own foreign border. that’s the border of the eu. if you don’t control who’s coming over the border, you don’t have any citizens’ rights, for your own citizens, the protection of your own people, what is the most important. that’s why i would like to say: in this case, we have to stand with poland. they are doing the main job, and they are doing a good job. go on, poland!
madam president, in this tense and tragic situation at the belarusian border, lukashenko is the sole culprit, he and not the vulnerable people whom he exploits and manipulates. lukashenko has three goals. first, to divide the european union – because we have over the past year shown remarkable unity in condemning his human rights violations. secondly, lukashenko wants to paint us europeans as hypocritical, lecturing him on human rights but not able to fully live up to our own high standards. and thirdly, he wants to regain a seat at the international negotiating tables that he lost after falsifying last year’s election results. we must deny him all of those goals. we must increase pressure on lukashenko’s regime and toughen the sanctions regime. but in doing this, we also must look critically at ourselves and make sure that no individual member state and no company exploits the loopholes or exceptions and exemptions in those sanctions, so we really must stand united in order to prevail.
author. – madam president, i believe this resolution is extremely timely since just last week, the council reached an agreement to apply new sanctions on the so-called ‘wagner group’ – a private military security company with very close ties to russian leadership. the wagner group has been deploying its mercenaries in various conflict zones across the world. the group is often used in order to obscure russia’s role in those conflicts and to try to maintain a degree of deniability regarding russia’s direct involvement. we must not be deceived by those clumsy efforts, and we are not. the wagner group and other similar companies have, over the years, committed innumerable human rights violations. but sadly, they have so far largely escaped investigation, prosecution and punishment. this is absolutely unacceptable. we must make sure that all those crimes are investigated and prosecuted, and we must demand that the authorities of the countries in which our csdp missions operate, terminate any contracts with pmscs accused of having committed human rights violations. we have to fully utilise the eu global human rights sanctions regime, and we must demand that all governments contracting pmscs ensure strict compliance with international humanitarian law, democratic oversight and accountability. and we must remain at the forefront of international regulatory efforts in this regard.
rapporteur. – madam president, it is inevitable that solid and comprehensive arms control, non—proliferation and disarmament architecture based on binding treaties and reinforced by a reliable and transparent verification mechanism is a key to maintaining peace, stability and security in the world, as well as guaranteeing sustainable development. the report on wmd, arms control and disarmament regimes that we are going to vote on this week focuses on key opportunities as well as challenges in this regard. it emphasises the proactive role that the european union, as a key donor of relevant international organisations, has been playing and continues to play in the global non—proliferation and disarmament efforts. yet, despite all those great efforts, the europeans have recently had to watch, with growing alarm, the crumbling of some key elements of the post—cold war arms control architecture. this process, unless swiftly reversed, is bound to have a profoundly negative impact on european, as well as global, security. over the past few years, we have witnessed the termination of the inf treaty following russia’s violations of the terms of that treaty, and we have seen the departure of the us and russia from the open skies treaty. we have struggled as europeans to keep the jcpoa, the iran nuclear deal, from completely falling apart. today the jury’s still out when it comes to the future of that important agreement. the decision by the us and russia to extend by another five years the new start treaty was indeed a rare piece of positive news in an otherwise rather gloomy cycle. the report insists on the need to revive our efforts to reverse that negative cycle and to ensure universal adherence to existing, as well as future, disarmament and non—proliferation treaties. it is imperative that any talks about the possible successor treaty to the inf include all countries that are in possession of, or are developing, systems that would be limited or banned by the treaty. a notable case here is china’s rising military power. the report reaffirms its support to the jcpoa and it commends the central role played by the iaea, the international atomic energy agency. it calls for the entry into force of the comprehensive test ban treaty and for the start of negotiations on the so—called fissile material cut—off treaty. the report also covers the loosening of global ethical norms against chemical weapons, a negative trend exemplified by the use of banned chemical agents in the syrian war and against the russian opposition leader alexei navalny. and it points to the lack of a binding verification mechanism for compliance with a biological and toxin weapons convention. but as already mentioned, the bulk of the report is naturally devoted to nuclear weapons. so let me conclude by reiterating my deep conviction that the nuclear non—proliferation treaty, or the npt, must remain the cornerstone of the international efforts at nuclear non—proliferation and disarmament. the npt, which recently celebrated its 50th anniversary, is the only nuclear weapons control treaty that brings together almost the entire international community and also includes among its members all the five recognised nuclear weapon states. the upcoming npt review conference, long delayed by the pandemic, provides us with an opportunity to give a new impetus to nuclear disarmament efforts, and we must not let that opportunity to go to waste. we must also refrain from initiatives that might deviate from or weaken the goals of the npt. i do sincerely believe that while we all share the long term goal of living in a world free of nuclear weapons, this objective can only be reached if we approach it in a realistic and reciprocal manner. finally, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and our advisors for their constructive cooperation.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. some questions have been raised that deserve answers. why do we not suspend the trade preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and central america? because to suspend these trade preferences means nothing more than treating nicaragua's exports as if they were from any other member country of the world trade organization which has no special treatment with us. and half of nicaragua's exports are raw materials that are entering today, currently, at zero duty into the european union. but we represent only 9% of nicaragua's exports, which means that last year they were 300 million euros. let's put things in their proper quantitative terms. we are talking about a 300 million euro problem. nicaragua's main trading partner is the united states. we export a very limited number of products, mainly coffee and bananas. and if we want to suspend trade preferences, we have to be very careful about the possible consequences that would have, because it would harm the social situation of many nicaraguans working in these sectors. i do not think that the nicaraguan regime would be changed by 300 million in exports, but many nicaraguans working in those sectors would be negatively affected. why not use the political clauses of this agreement? because this agreement has not yet been ratified. because there is one member state, one, which has not yet completed the ratification process. my services inform me that if that agreement were ratified then we could use the political clauses of it in the field of human rights. these are the disadvantages of having to go through long and unanimous procedures to ratify our agreements. why don't we suspend cooperation with nicaragua? because i think we're channeling it through non-governmental procedures and we're selecting activities so that they can't be instrumentalised to benefit the government, but rather the population, particularly the most vulnerable part of it. the priorities in the multiannual indicative programme are basically measures to prevent or mitigate the consequences of climate change and promote sustainable development, and they are focused to address directly the population without, i insist, being instrumentalized by the government. more than half of our funds are devoted to mitigating the effects of climate change, protecting biodiversity and supporting civil society. the other half is devoted to promoting sustainable economic growth, tackling food or food crises and the already inevitable consequences of climate change. 10% goes to education. what would the people of nicaragua gain if we suspended that? how would we weaken the government's position? i certainly don't think so. i believe that our limited resources pay special attention to women and young people and indigenous peoples, to afro-descendants who still live in ethnic communities, and contribute to alleviating the conditions in which they live and to combating inequality. what do we do to help political prisoners? because, yes, mr. pineda, they are political prisoners. and please do not compare the situation in nicaragua with that of chile or peru. you have spoken of chile and peru. you spoke of candidates who are running for office or who have already won. i have been in peru recently to express my full support for mr castillo, the president of peru, who has won a fair election. he's a leftist, and that doesn't matter to me. ortega is not a leftist. it's not a leftist dictatorship, it's just a dictatorship. he has no ideology of any kind. the only thing that moves him is staying in power. let's call it what it is. let us not call it a left-wing dictatorship, as if being left-wing meant that it was more reprehensible. dictatorships are dictatorships, and some of them have no ideological coloring. and that gentleman has none. it is not a left-wing dictatorship, it is pure and simple dictatorship. please don't let your ideological conformation mask your reality. we can say that the situation in nicaragua improved a few years ago. yes, it is true, there has undoubtedly been an improvement in recent years, but it is still one of the most terribly poor countries in latin america. and in recent years the vulnerability and deterioration of democracy and human rights have become acute. between 41% and 47% of the population live in poverty and between 20% and 18% in extreme poverty. this is the best data that has been obtained. no, i'm sorry, mr. pineda. i was just... you know i appreciate you. i love arguing with you, but in this case i'm sorry to say that we're going to be very worried if the left-wing candidate wins in chile. personally, i'm not worried about anything. like i don't care about anything mr. castillo won. because both chile and peru have done so through perfectly homologous elections. they have competed in good democratic law and they have and exercise legitimate power. and that is why they have, absolutely, my respect and my willingness to cooperate with them, as i expressed to president castillo and as i would express to anyone who wins the elections in chile at the end of this month. please, please, mr. pineda, that comparison is completely out of place. as far as the situation in nicaragua is concerned, i do not know how mr wallace can describe it as he has described it. anyone with a shred of objectivity knows what the situation is there. unfortunately, we have no more instruments than those we have to fight them, to fight them, yes, to fight them democratically, supporting civil society in what we can, helping the people of nicaragua in what we can. trying to get the release of political prisoners as much as we can. and we will continue to do so.
six motions for resolutions were tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 december 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation on the ukrainian border and in the russian-occupied territories in ukraine (2021/3010 (rsp)). i would remind members that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this session and that no blue cards are accepted. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, we change the geographical situation, we change the latitude and longitude of the coordinates, but the problem is still very worrying. now we are talking about the situation on the ukrainian border and in the russian—occupied territories of ukraine. i’ve been talking a lot about it during this weekend in liverpool, together with my fellow colleagues of the g7 – as you know the most important, the biggest, democracies in the world. i’ve been talking a lot with secretary of state blinken and we will talk a lot about it at the next european union council. we talked yesterday about it also, with my fellow ministers of foreign affairs. so i think i have all the information i could have in order to come here to discuss with you the russian military build—up around ukraine. first, facts. since november, russia has been massing troops and weapons in an unusual manner around ukraine’s borders. you know that ukraine is our close strategic partner, so it’s normal that we are worried about this movement of russian troops. i had the opportunity also to talk about this with the russian foreign affairs minister, sergei lavrov, during the osce meeting in stockholm, and with the foreign affairs minister of ukraine. at the osce meeting in stockholm i witnessed a lively exchange of views between minister lavrov and secretary of state blinken about this issue. we, the european union, maintain regular contact with president zelensky, with prime minister shmyhal, with foreign minister kuleba. we express at all levels our political support to ukraine. we publicly recall our unwavering support to ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally—recognised border. according to russian sources, nothing is happening. they are only moving their troops inside their territory; they are not violating any international law, nor any constitutional internal rule. certainly they are moving troops inside their borders, but with the precedents, with what has happened between ukraine and russia, it is quite justified that the ukrainians are worried and that we have to express our political support. but today we are in prevention mode. today, we are trying to avoid further escalations and to work on all avenues that we can in order to deter further russian actions. today we are in deterring mode, prevention mode, dissuasion mode, in order to avoid the crisis escalating and reaching the level of military conflict. we are doing what we can on that. yesterday at our foreign affairs council, all members reiterated their support for ukraine, as i said, and also we have recently adopted a set of assistance measures under the european peace facility, a new financial tool which is under my policy implementation authority, in supporting ukrainian armed forces in areas including the provision of military, medical and engineering equipment, and mobility, logistic and cyberdefence support – not providing lethal arms, but in all the fields that an army requires in order to be operational. these are tangible ways of showing our support to strengthening ukrainian resilience, and also our support for the ukrainian reform agenda since 2014. because the reforms inside ukraine are also an important component of ukrainians’ overall resilience to external challenges. the better the functioning of ukrainian democracy, the highest quality we have in fighting against internal problems, the stronger they will be to face external challenges. but today we have to talk about an attempt to undermine further ukrainian territorial integrity which was jeopardised when russia took over crimea. this would come, if it happens again, with severe political consequences and with a high political and economic cost for russia, if this was the case. we have to act in unity. we are coordinating closely with our transatlantic and like—minded partners. we did that on sunday, and our g7 statement was clear on this position. we called on russia to de—escalate, to pursue diplomatic channels, and to abide by its international commitments on transparency of military activities, as president biden also did in his call with president putin on 7 december. in the meantime, as i said, we are in deterrent, dissuasive, prevention mode, and we will continue to do full diplomatic outreach. we reconfirm our support to france and germany, in the normandy format, to achieve full implementation of the minsk agreements in order to resolve the conflict in eastern ukraine. we are studying the different scenarios that one could imagine could happen in the following days or weeks. we recall russia’s responsibility in implementing the minsk agreements. it remains a key issue, and we will continue demonstrating that we will not hesitate to take actions when needed, as by imposing restrictive measures against the russia—based wagner group. i want to bring to your attention to the fact that these restrictive measures have already been taken, and the council approved them yesterday. i know that for the russian authorities, the wagner group is a private company, as private as one that could produce sweets, but in any case we consider that we have to show our strong determination to stand up for our interests and values in our neighbourhood and beyond. ukraine has the right to make its own foreign and security policy choices. it is an independent and sovereign country, and it has the right to make its own foreign and security policy choices, and we respect fully these choices. since the starting point of the conflict almost eight years ago, we have been steadfast, at the ukrainian side. furthermore, the ukrainians’ diplomatic efforts to keep the illegal annexation of crimea high on the international agenda, including through the launch of this international crimea platform, are welcome and will be supported. tomorrow, at the meeting with the eastern partnership summit, we will have another occasion to stress that there is room for enhanced cooperation between the eu and these countries, as well as for gradual convergence in the area of foreign and security policy, in line with partners’ commitments with the eu. i think that strengthening our partners strategic communication capabilities will also be an important element of building resilience, including the fight against disinformation and information manipulation – and there is a lot of it as you very well know. so for the time being, once again we are expecting the best and preparing for the worst. should the situation in ukraine deteriorate, there should be no doubt that we will be ready to respond. but for the time being, we don’t want to contribute to any kind of escalation. we want to be in this prevention mode – that is in the end the role of diplomacy, the work of diplomacy – to try to study the different scenarios, to have an answer prepared for each one of them, and making clear what our answer will be if any one of them happen. allow me to finish with these words: expect the best, and be prepared for the worst.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr president, i am grateful for your comments and would like to stress the seriousness of the situation. yeah, we're in the deterrent mode now. this renewed russian military advance is unprovoked, unless one considers the mere existence of an independent ukraine as a provocation of a country that is democratically, economically and socially striving for stability and development. putin's myth of the threat posed by nato is ridiculous. he knows that. brezhnev knew that. nato, as an alliance of saturated democracies, is not attacking anyone. it is not nato's weapons, but the way in which we organize ourselves in freedom, that will then become a provocation, if that could even be successful in ukraine. the continued aggression against ukraine since 2014 has not undermined ukraine's determination to establish a functioning democratic state. because it's so clear who the aggressor is, there's no victim-perpetrator equation. the aggressor must de-escalate by withdrawing troops. ukraine has every right to defend itself under article 51 of the un charter, and i am grateful to all those who are helping it with arms. we as the eu will, i hope, in coordination with our transatlantic partners respond civilly to military aggression, but effectively. and we should hold up the instruments for that. it's gonna hurt when swift is shut down. the system's beneficiaries will also be hurt when all long-term visas are terminated. and one thing should be clear: a nord stream pipeline will not deliver anything if there is war going on at the same time, because we will not finance the war with the revenues from this pipeline. (the speaker speaks a few words in ukrainian.)
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the russian bear angrily roaring on the european borders, tries to scare and impose on us the rules of the jungle. on the other hand, the russian-speaking bear keeps the permanent member seat at the security council of the united nations, the global forum of international cooperation. compatible? shocking? acceptable? continuous russian federation actions by the threatening and destabilising situation in ukraine must be regarded as a threat to overall european stability and security. by violating international laws and bilateral treaties, russia proves itself to be unpredictable and an untrustworthy member of the international community. instead of following rules based on good neighbourly relations, it tries to force others with red lines and ultimatum rhetoric. russia’s military build-up on ukraine’s borders comes at a time of unsettled, assertive and globally growing authoritarianism, which disregards sovereignty and the democratic choices of others. creeping hybrid strategy, intimidation and military pressure used by russia, presents a real threat to ukraine’s sovereignty. today, as never before, ukraine needs not only the eu’s understanding and solidarity, but a joint and resolute deterrence and support action. i call on the european union to come up with a timely decision on the common security and defence policy mission to ukraine. we have to use to a full extent the civilian csdp compact tools to translate our partnership into something more tangible everybody understands.
on behalf of the group id. chairman of the sitting, honourable high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, colleagues! many will no doubt wonder what russia's current goals might be and if they are not met, would it be prepared to act militarily on their behalf again, as it recently did in georgia, crimea, or eastern ukraine? as for the objectives, they are quite simple: russia has made it clear that it wants legal guarantees that nato will not accept new members from russia's neighbourhood, and that it does not want to see nato military units or weapons too close to its borders. such demands have been made possible in particular by russia's perception of the weakness of both the united states and the european union. it should be said that, up to now, almost all of russia's allegations have been false and distorted. nato military units in eastern europe are for defense, not to threaten russia. only a fool would think that european countries or the united states would have the motivation to threaten russia militarily. it is also completely absurd for russia to demand that nato military units should not be stationed in countries bordering it for defence purposes or that some countries should never become nato members. if the question is the build-up of russian troops on the border of ukraine or the aggressive military exercises on the border of estonia, then russia claims that russia does whatever it wants on its own territory. but the same right applies to other countries: if ukraine wants to join nato, it is its right, if other nato members agree. if estonia or poland wish to see allied troops on their territory, that is their right and russia has no grounds for any claims. especially given russia's historical record and the wars it's waged over the last 15 years. russia could be a very good economic partner for us and also an ally in some ways, if you consider the relationship with china. but for a relationship to work, there has to be a willingness on both sides. russia, as the largest country in the world, must realize that the last century has passed, when it was possible to use communist terror to carry out occupations, massacres or deportations. russia should understand that good relations with its neighbors have a lot to gain. but in order for them to understand this good opportunity, we, the european countries, should be prepared to defend ourselves by any means and to provide all possible assistance to ukraine at this time. take finland, for example, a country that has economically stable relations with russia, but at the same time has one of the best armies in europe, and certainly not because of sweden or norway.
madam president, the current massing of russian troops and military equipment on ukraine’s borders is extremely dangerous and provocative. the situation must be de-escalated quickly in order to avoid catastrophic consequences. i believe that the political solution to this situation is not yet impossible and must be pursued, but the fact that russia continues to renege on its previous commitments obviously makes it more difficult. it is clear from the steps of the russian leaders that they see the aggression they launched in 2014 as an unfinished business. what the eu can and must do is to be firm and consistent in our support for ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. we must also be strong and consistent in helping ukraine to boost its resilience against external pressure and provocations. on sanctions, i sincerely believe that russia’s current leaders are ultimately rational players on the international scene. they have shown they will not shy away from using military means to achieve their goals if, but only if, they believe that the benefits are greater than the costs. so the task of the international community is to tell them very unequivocally that in case of any military adventure, the price russia will have to pay is going to be far greater than any possible gain. so yes, the threat of new effective countermeasures, including well-targeted sanctions, can change the kremlin’s calculus and help avert a military escalation. and finally, we must also be consistent and resolute in reminding russia’s president that ukraine’s geostrategic choices are for the ukrainians to make, and no third party will ever have a veto in this.
