on behalf of the left group. mr president, digitalisation is a great opportunity for us, but only if we do it in a way that everyone can participate. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on gender equality and to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on gender equality. the pandemic has accelerated the digital shift, and teleworking has brought new digital tools into many people's daily lives. indeed, the pace of change is rapid, and it is estimated that more than 90% of the jobs of the future will require it and digital skills. women use the internet less than men all over the world. in order to achieve full equality of opportunity for girls and women in the digital economy, we need to break down gender stereotypes and gendered attitudes and expectations. gender stereotypes are a big factor in young people's choice of education, and we need to make girls see that digital spaces are just as much for them. the 2019 gender equality index unfortunately reveals that gender inequality is still prevalent in the digital sector. the distribution of care responsibilities remains uneven, and the pandemic has exacerbated this. women bear the bulk of the care responsibilities, and this is an obstacle to the equal status of all women in the labour market and in working life. the economic situation also affects the opportunities for all children and young people to participate in digital development. schools should be places that ensure that every child, regardless of family background or economic situation, has the opportunity to learn digital skills.
madam president, the circular economy is our solution to save this planet, its ecosystems and also the wellbeing of our citizens. we have to remember to keep it at the core of both the digital and green reform of the european union. i would like to focus on the industrial side in particular. concerning the digital reform, we have to make sure that we also green the digital sector. 53% of digital emissions comes from services, data centres and infrastructure, while 47% comes from end-user appliances. this shows that we also need to start tackling data centres, making them more energy-efficient, while we increase the digitalisation of our societies. and we need to oblige them to run on renewables while using the excess heat from nearby industries. this information also needs to reach consumers, and eco-design should be expanded to cover services. so, in essence, we have to make sure that the digital reformation of europe is also green and circular.
mr president, the economic crisis is coming. it is rarely possible to predict what causes it or when it will occur. this time, the crisis triggered a coronavirus pandemic. the best way to prepare for a crisis is to keep your finances in order so that you can afford to boost them when they're needed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency for the purpose of the single currency. one of the most important functions of a currency is to be flexible in times of crisis and recession. this would be a much more economically viable way of offsetting the competitive differences rather than income transfers. in the single currency, the weakest countries become weaker and the strongest stronger, as capital investment moves to more productive countries. to compensate for this, the government has to borrow, and when enough debt is borrowed, there is a debt crisis. monetary unions have two options. it's either a transfer union or it's an exit mechanism. i was not in favour of the euro support package in 2011 and i am not in favour of this rescue package because i am not in favour of the income transfer union at all. i would like us to stand on our own two feet here in europe, and we would be stronger. i would also like to know, or rather ask, why and by whose order the following sentence was removed from the commission's website: 'the eu must not finance its budget by borrowing'. this sentence referred to article 310. the commission also found that the union industry had not been able to recover from the injury suffered by the union industry. does the disappearance of this mystical phrase mean that the eu budget can now suddenly be financed by borrowing?
mr president, covid has been an unprecedented crisis both in europe and globally. the effects on the economy and on well-being will be long-lasting and significant. it is good that in this exceptional situation the eu was able to reach this exceptional solution. i'm afraid that in exceptional times, exceptional means are required. while the package does not cover all the costs or impacts of covid, it does bring stability and reliability to the european economic area and hopefully also gives people faith in the future. and most importantly, the criteria for spending money are set to advance the goals and challenges that we would face regardless of covid. it is important that the rrf includes earmarked money for both climate, climate work and digitalisation. if the billions of dollars in stimulus funds are used in accordance with the principles of the green deal, we can accelerate the transition to a carbon-neutral society, but the true cost and impact of the virus will only be seen in the coming years, when the full impact of covid on well-being becomes visible. in the years to come, we must therefore strengthen the social dimension even more so that this crisis does not unduly increase inequalities.
mr president, mr borrell, the free opposition and the free civil society are the basic conditions for a free society. both have been suppressed in russia, have been for a long time. the unfortunate conclusion to be drawn from the visit of the high representative is that the russian political leadership has tightened its grip and is moving in an even more authoritarian direction, thus distancing itself from europe, but we must nevertheless strive for dialogue. the eu must defend human rights and democracy in all its activities with all partners. under no circumstances can you miss this. we must continue to demand the release of navalny and the freedom of the opposition to act. the russians must be able to choose their own political leadership and they must be able to do so freely, without fear of being hunted down. the requirement that russia respect human rights and fundamental freedoms is derived from international human rights treaties and obligations. it is not a political attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of another country, but it is the defence of human rights at all times and everywhere.
mr president, some colleagues have criticised the high representative for going to moscow. but did not our representative borrell, vice-president of the commission, do exactly what we elected him to do, namely to carry forward the european union's united message of our views on russia's actions? we have condemned the poisoning of navalny, we have condemned his arrest and we have demanded respect for civil rights, so this is the line the union must continue to follow and to follow unitedly. it became clear to us that russia was now distancing itself from european values and we had to react to this. this means that the debate on sanctions in the field of human rights is coming back. that is why we have adopted a new mechanism for imposing sanctions. the eu must now move forward as one and point the finger at those responsible, where they belong, rather than at its own commissioners.
mr president, it is less than a year since the virus really made its way to europe and we already have several vaccines that are already being used. this cannot be considered a complete failure, even though we now have a problem on our hands: production volumes and their deliveries, companies that do not keep their promises. all available production capacity must be made available and companies must therefore be required to be fully transparent. they must share knowledge and technology. the temporary breach of patent protection and/or the use of compulsory licences must be included in the range of measures immediately. right now, the problem is a lack of transparency. it is wrong to say that three contracts have been published. so much of it is hidden that it does not allow for the democratic control of the commission's activities, which is the task of parliament. over 2.7 billion public funds have been invested in vaccine research and development. without taxpayer money these companies would not have these vaccines and therefore we have the right and the duty to demand full transparency. finally, mr president, the eu must assume its global responsibility and ensure that poorer countries also receive their vaccines.
mr president, the fact is that we are running out of time in the supply of vaccines. it is very important that the promises made about the delivery of vaccines are kept and that they are made available to the public quickly. the new british variant and others pose an increasing threat of a rapid re-emergence of this vile disease and all the problems it poses to the health and life of the citizens. the commission must therefore do everything possible to speed up the production of the vaccine. i am also disappointed that parliament has not been given sufficient information about what agreements have been concluded with the companies, in what manner and on what conditions. we need more openness. less than half of the promised quantity of vaccine has arrived in finland. this is unacceptable, neither for finland nor for other countries. the commission is also expected to examine whether agreements with pharmaceutical companies and patent protection can be reassessed or whether, for example, licensed production can be used as a solution for additional supplies. so we must look at all possible ways to ensure that vaccines are distributed this spring.
madam president, i have spoken with a lot of young people in europe and they have a strong message to deliver. the continuing coronavirus crisis is having a huge strain on the health of the youth of europe. i’m not just worried about the health effects on the elderly and the risk groups, but of the effect that one year, or even two years, of this continued crisis is having on the mental health of the youth. for young people forming their future, that is a long time without the proper chance for social contacts and learning. if there is a generation growing up without a chance to pursue their dreams and visions, it affects our whole youth future. it is a europe without dreams and visions. and this crisis affects the youth of the whole world. it is not just limited to europe. so, therefore, i urge the commission to do its utmost to ramp up vaccine production in europe and globally. there needs to be a compulsory licensing of the vaccines to speed up production. we need all hands on deck. but there needs to be carrots and sticks to enforce public interest above the interests of a few private vaccine companies. vaccination has yet to start in the poorest countries, so there needs to be a global strategy here. i urge you to action.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, after three speeches by epp politicians i’m happy to present the real concerns of the s&d group around this mifid quick-fix. firstly, the exact link between the proposed changes and the covid pandemic is rather weak and we risk watering down the legislative framework without a proper political and technical evaluation. clearly, we cannot use this health crisis to set a deregulating agenda of the financial sector. secondly, we struggle to believe that issuers’ ability to raise capital is massively improved by stopping to disclose losses to professional investors, by suspending best execution reports, or by deleting quantitative elements from the ancillary tests. thirdly, by reducing clarity on product governance rules and the real costs linked to investment products, this quick-fix completely fails to protect investors against all sorts of misselling. such a step is never justified, and even less so in times of crisis. the s&d group wants to support smes by facilitating the raising of capital and at the same time safeguarding the transparency framework for retail and institutional investors. please listen to consumer organisations, think-tanks and esma, for example, before making your decisions. the best way to do this reform is through the overall review of mifid/mifir later this year. to my appreciated and experienced epp colleague, i would like to say i would like to take seriously your words that the epp is not promoting a deregulation agenda. if that is the case, you can show it later this year when we are doing the overall review of mifid ii. that will be the litmus test for you and your words in front of this parliament.
on behalf of the id team. mr president, i am in favour of future carbon tariffs if they reduce the risk of carbon leakage and thus improve the competitiveness of european industry against polluting countries. however, the committee's own-initiative report on the carbon tax went down the wrong path in many respects. the report stresses that, unlike the ets, the mechanism should not consider wood burning as a carbon neutral fuel and that the revised and updated framework should also include a price for carbon contained in felled wood and depleted soil. i mean, the tree's decay is also a big factor in the carbon dioxide emissions. we have to be smart about our boundaries, not go around saying, "i'm sorry". i do not want to see a future where, for example, when a finn falls a tree from his own forest, he has to pay tax on it. or if he heats his own house and sauna with wood, he would have to pay a tax on it. let's be smart and smart about this carbon tax.
mr president, as we raise our ambition to tackle climate change to meet our commitments under the paris agreement, we must at the same time look after european jobs and industry. that's why the carbon tax is a welcome opening. if it is properly built, it will prevent carbon leakage and also prevent us from outsourcing our own emissions outside the eu. it must ensure that products produced at the expense of the environment and climate do not gain an unfair competitive advantage within the eu. so far, carbon leakage has been contained within the emissions trading scheme by free zones. as the court of auditors has found, the free allocation has slowed down the transition towards carbon neutrality and instead of providing an incentive, has provided undue profit for operators. the introduction of a carbon tax should mean the abandonment of expressions which are harmful to the climate and which slow down innovation. it is essential to define the carbon footprint of a product or service. it should take into account traceability so that the full life cycle impacts are taken into account. the eu's trade policy as a whole has not taken climate into account sufficiently. the free trade agreements are a sad example of this. the carbon tax mechanism is a step in the right direction.
madam president, we need a global price for carbon. that is elementary for us to achieve our global climate objectives and to make sure that the whole world moves towards low carbon production. and we, as europe, also have a responsibility to play as well, because our consumption partly creates emissions outside europe. so we have a right and a responsibility to regulate these emissions. we must push forward climate action both within the union and by our trading partners. while we make sure that eu industry is competitive in this change, it is also obvious that industry has to play its role. for us, it is better to support green investments in european industries and readjust that way, rather than support the continuation of emissions. so it is clear that, with the introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism, the free allowances have to be history. i hope that the commission takes parliament’s position on this seriously and makes sure that we create a clearer, more global price for carbon.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the media are sometimes called the watchdog of power, and that is what they are at their best. it sheds light on the dark corners and informs citizens of the background to decisions, thereby supporting and enabling a fact-based public debate. the media must also be able to assess the powers that be freely, without fear of consequences and critically. free and independent and multi-voiced media cannot be realised if ownership is too concentrated. if ownership and power are concentrated in the hands of those in power, the media is not independent. journalists must be free to produce content on a journalistic basis. if the media landscape is concentrated in the hands of those in power, it's no longer about journalism, it's about propaganda. a free democratic society needs free and independent media, and this applies to all member states, not just those we are discussing.
(speech without microphone) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can't believe we're having this conversation again. in 2021, europe should be free of discrimination for all. it should be obvious. whether it is sexual orientation, gender minorities, skin colour, religion or freedom of opinion, everyone should be able to live freely as their own person. the fact that minority rights are being trampled on is an even bigger issue than what it is for that individual minority. when the human rights of one group of people are violated, human rights are violated. let your human rights be trampled upon, too, because human rights belong to everyone everywhere at all times. they are indivisible.
mr. speaker, the openlux revelations are shocking. and again, thanks for bringing this to the attention of the media in finland, germany, france and elsewhere. 55,000 offshore companies, and with them, six trillion euros in assets. and behind the corporations, you'll find billionaires, pop stars, royalty, political movements, but also criminal organizations. the tax losses are in the billions. this money would be badly needed for coronary care, schools and care for the elderly. change is necessary. luxembourg should be included in the list of tax havens. the new money laundering legislation requires the register of beneficial owners to be made public. it's time to act. i'm going now.
mr president, the european union is strong when it is based on its own values - democracy, the rule of law, human rights and a free press. the fact is that these principles have also been violated in our member states in recent years. that's why these violations need to be addressed. our union is not credible unless it recognizes its own failings and is prepared to deal with them. i am proud that the finnish government, after the european elections, listened to the voters' messages and, during its presidency, raised this issue of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the decisions we make now are important. the minimum is that those countries which receive substantial funds from the european union commit themselves to the rule of law. it has to be the bare minimum. the most important thing is that we have more troubled countries coming. i am very disappointed with what has happened in hungary, very disappointed with the developments in poland in recent years, and now slovenia is following suit. in this context, the commission must act swiftly and decisively in the face of violations of the rule of law, in accordance with the mechanism now adopted.
mr president, the rule of law is and must be a central principle of our common values. this is too valuable a conversation to be wasted on party politics. in a functioning rule of law, there is a free and pluralistic media. in a state governed by the rule of law, investigative journalists and independent media act as watchdogs of power, bringing abuses to light. in a state governed by the rule of law, the victim of a crime receives justice from an independent judiciary. the shocking fate of daphne caruana galizia has brought to light the problems of malta and the extent of corruption in a way that requires us to act. the rule of law has been violated in several cases. restrictions on organizing protests, restrictions on freedom of the press, corruption, money laundering. the problems seem to be structural. the commission has therefore taken immediate action to ensure that justice is served to daphne caruana galizia and that malta returns to the rule of law. thank you, sir.
mr president, it is worrying that there is already a discussion about making the resuscitation device permanent. the eu leaders always have the same mantra for every problem: just give us more money and more power and all good things will happen. in reality, little finland is becoming a debt-slave. as regards relations between turkey and the eu, it is time to stop the fine talk and formally end the accession negotiations. we do not want a culture of subjugation of women in turkey to enter the eu. turkey's membership of the eu would be a bad thing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this week parliament will vote on the world’s biggest research programme with a budget of over eur 95 billion. horizon europe is our common chance to promote science—based progress for all of our european citizens and with a positive effect that will spread globally. it is a tool to elevate the level of research in our universities and amongst our top researchers, while also promoting open science and the spirit of cross—boundary cooperation in achieving the highest scientific results. it also has to encourage member states to increase their own r&d funding to thus foster academic freedom and to promote science—based policies. science and research are key in solving the current challenges of humanity and our common planet and its threatened ecosystems. science and science—based policy does make a difference, but there is the question of improving health, building a sustainable economy, tackling poverty or addressing climate change. science is part of the answer in all of them. parliament has managed to achieve an agreement of 35% climate earmarking and a 7.5% earmarking for biodiversity research until 2026, and 10% after that. now the billion euro question is: will all of this excellent research help us to avoid a climate and environmental catastrophe? will the over eur 3 billion that we will spend on climate and biodiversity research save us and our planet? science has already been clear on this for decades. we must change the way we produce and use energy, the way we move, the way we eat, the way we produce, the way we consume and the way we farm and use land. unfortunately, until now, we did not listen to this science, but the scientific evidence is clear and the urgency is here. our agricultural policy is not science based and now we know that even the eu’s climate law will not be in line with the scientific evidence of how to stay within 1.5 degrees. so there is ample evidence to prove that horizon europe has to be a tool to increase our science ambition, and also with innovation policies to put into practice solutions to the climate crisis. as greta thunberg has said, we cannot make it without science and we must also listen to science. these seven years of horizon europe are in many ways crucial for the future of europe and the world. i wish every success to european researchers in their important work and i urge all political decision—makers, and also the commission, to start listening to this science.
mr president, we all want to get back to so-called normal as soon as possible and get rid of these restrictions, but it is puzzling that the commission is completely ignoring health protection. i have repeatedly asked what health safety assessment the preparation of the corona card is based on. i have not received a reply, despite repeated attempts. from a health-safety point of view, there are several problems. we don't have solid research evidence on how long the vaccine will protect, how long the infected covid will protect, and we don't have certainty about the efficacy of existing vaccines against new variants that are emerging until we get the pandemic under control with vaccinability. a danish study found that up to half of all antigen tests give the wrong result. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised. the only way to return to normal is to guarantee global vaccination coverage, and that is where the eu has to assume its global responsibility.
mr. president, russia has long been a dangerous place for both investigative journalists and opposition politicians. far too many of them have lost their lives defending free media or political freedom of expression. they, the victims, are united by their criticism of the putin regime and their investigation of its actions. if the media is not free and if the opposition is not free to act, there is no free civil society, there is no freedom. the european court of human rights has declared navalny's detention unlawful and he must be released immediately and given the medical assistance he needs. we must be able to defend democracy and freedom and the international rules-based system, and defending that is not anti-russian. i don't accept the charge of being anti-russian. on the contrary, i speak out against the corruption and crimes of the russian government precisely so that russians can have the opportunity to build a better future for themselves, free and without fear. that's where we have to support them.
mr president, the restriction of civil rights in russia is a matter of common concern. in europe, all people must have the same right to express their opinions and to elect their own decision-makers democratically. we demand respect for civil rights and the rule of law from the eu member states and from those outside the eu. the treatment of alexei navalny is a matter of deep concern to all of us. the attempted poisoning, the questionable conviction and the imprisonment none of these can be ignored or tolerated. we are not talking about the russian people, but about the russian people, and we are talking about the russian people. the high representative borrell will have the full support of this parliament for his work in building the eu's common policy and in the necessary dialogue.
mr president, the citizens of the european union also expect the european union to take care of our security. a stable and secure europe is also being built together in the defence sector. the eu's credibility and security, as well as those of its member states, large and small, would benefit from joining forces in the field of defence. france deserves credit for its consistent contribution to the development of defence and security policy. i also thank commissioner breton for tackling this subject with such success. strategic autonomy has become an important part of the eu's thinking and policy objectives, and it also has a significant role to play in the field of defence. of course, autonomy does not preclude cooperation with nato. by taking care of its own defence capability, the eu must also be a trusted partner for other actors. the defence fund is part of the eu's evolving defence capability, providing practical opportunities for defence cooperation projects by combining the resources and expertise of the member states. the development of a new generation of major defence systems is increasingly beyond the reach of individual member states. this will of course have a direct impact on the union's defence capability, industrial competitiveness and innovation. that's why we need to pool our resources. we need a common internal market in the defence industry, and the creation of a defence fund can help to achieve this. the accessibility of the common defence market for small and medium-sized enterprises is of particular importance. this would, of course, strengthen the economy and the internal market in europe as a whole, create new jobs and contribute to strengthening europe's defence independence. cybersecurity is a factor to consider. we need new projects and closer cooperation between the member states in this area. the s&d group called for a record of these projects in accordance with international arms export restrictions and international human rights. this is what's happening now, and i'm happy about it. parliament's support for the establishment of a defence fund will further the eu's objective of promoting security on our continent and throughout the world.
for the verts/ale group mr president, life+ is perhaps the most beloved eu programme. few citizens in the eu now love programmes, but life is a bottom-up project that protects the local nature that is important to many people and creates the kind of circular economy and climate projects that local communities appreciate. when i was the minister of the environment in finland, we did a collaborative project with the ministry, researchers and local ngos to protect the silkworm. this project, which received a total of over eur 5 million in funding, helped to speed up the recovery of the silky vulture, and the population of this most endangered mammal in europe has now doubled and its future is much better with over 400 individuals than it was even ten years ago. but we're not just talking about individual species of mammals. if we think about the natural world, a recent report has just shown that only a small part, about 3%, of the natural world is intact, and even less in europe. we have a lot to do in this decade: not only can we turn the fight against climate change into a win, but we also have to stop the loss of biodiversity. life has been the programme dedicated to nature conservation, and now that 10% of the eu budget will be allocated to actions promoting nature conservation and biodiversity from 2026, life is also an example for the whole budget of how nature is being protected. it is important that we do not harm nature and that we protect it, and that all eu action must be nature-protective.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr torvalds, and all those involved in this long process, which looks very promising. the continuation and upgrading of the life fund is very welcome and good news. life is a successful entity and an important part of the response to climate change. the priorities and the specifications of the new period are well suited to the challenges of the present moment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy. the new long-term financial framework for the mff therefore has a particularly important climate action and biodiversity earmarked component. it provides the opportunity to do long-term, cutting-edge and impactful climate and environmental work. we must pay particular attention at this time to stopping the loss of biodiversity. the extinction wave is worse than commonly understood, and stopping the tide requires action now. biodiversity is certainly valuable in itself, but it is also essential for our ability to cope with climate change. the rich diversity of life on our planet will help it adapt to the inevitable warming that lies ahead. the state of the seas, coastlines and wetlands must also be given priority. the key to climate action is, of course, to have ambition, but also to find win-win solutions that benefit the climate and create sustainable economic growth and new jobs - the circular economy being a good example. the eu's overall climate and environment policy is in many respects highly contradictory. the role of the free-riding man in agriculture is the most obvious example of this, and it is a waste of money if anything. if we can get more funding at the same time, we need to be able to ensure that we do not cause more damage elsewhere. thank you for a good job and a good report!
mr president, the hydrogen work of this parliament quite clearly identifies the potential of hydrogen as a substitute for coal in certain industrial sectors. for example, converting iron to zero-emission requires hydrogen, and producing it requires green, zero-emission electricity. but as hydrogen technology reduces emissions, so does energy efficiency. i think it is important that energy efficiency standards are flexible in the future when hydrogen technology, or other similar technologies, can achieve large emission reductions in industry.
madam president, renewable power is the backbone of future energy systems. the future—proof option now is to build more solar and wind power. besides being clean, they are increasingly more affordable and bring local employment and income. wind power is currently often the cheapest form of new energy investment in northern europe, while solar is that in southern europe. 90% of new power generation capacities will be renewable based on the most recent international energy agency analyses. hydrogen is a big chance for the european industrial future. it can help us with decarbonising steel production and it can help us with lorry and maritime traffic in achieving climate goals. but, we have to remember, hydrogen is just an energy carrier that will take renewables to sectors, but the most efficient option of direct electrification with renewables is not an option. without renewable energy, we won’t have any renewable hydrogen. we don’t have any sustainable hydrogen so there is no industrial leadership on hydrogen in europe without increasingly focusing on increasing renewables in europe. we must look at the energy system in a holistic way, not focusing on just one energy carrier. we should also forget fossil—based solutions, including fossil—based hydrogen, as they will only prolong the life of polluting assets, create stranded assets and lock—in effects. the future is here already today with renewables and we should go forward to it in haste.
mr president, the objectives of decades ago are that the eu should be the most competitive and innovative economic area in the world today. we know this didn't happen. on the contrary, our dependence on both technology and critical raw materials has increased, investment in research and innovation is stalling and the innovation system is not generating the latest knowledge fast enough into new products. the commission is now, quite rightly, seeking to reduce dependence and to strengthen its strategic position by means of a dual transition. climate and digital leadership is something worth pursuing. to succeed, we need better cooperation between science and business, including the sme sector. new horizons and its partnerships are key. the strategy highlights the importance of ipcei and industrial alliances. the commission will also be taking action to ensure that industrial ecosystems are better taken into account in the future along the entire value chain. this is good. however, the strategy does not recognise the bioeconomy as it should. a sustainable bioeconomy, together with a circular economy, offers industry the best opportunities to replace non-renewable raw materials and fossil energy. the promotion of the bioeconomy supports the dual transition and climate and digital leadership. i hope that parliament will take this into account.
mr president, the overriding feeling in drowning is, of course, pity. but who is to blame for these deaths and murders? the european union itself and the humanistic madness it worships. why are the borders still open? no one will die if we announce that the reception in europe is over. no one's going anywhere. ships operated by various shadowy organizations patrolled the libyan coast, luring boaters to leave. the expulsion of these traffickers from the sea would reduce the number of emigrants. why are they even being brought to europe? i mean, they should be turned back where they came from. there is a childish belief here that europe can provide for all the tens and tens of millions of people who are on their way out, waiting for the right moment to turn their shoes towards europe.
on behalf of the id team. mr president, i am approaching this from an unusual angle. the various motions for resolutions make environmentalists almost saints. there are all kinds of people in that group, from lawbreakers to outright terrorists. among others, cattle ranchers, fur farmers and transportation are targeted. are the human rights violations mostly imported goods and landed in europe with uninvited guests? at least the countless acts of terrorism are evidence. climate change is about to be a stick in every department. there are numerous climate scientists around the world who question the present declaration. they're not gonna listen to them when they say they've found the truth. many of them even consider a mini ice age more likely. the main driver of emissions and the main additive is currently population growth and the resulting growth in gdp.
mr president, the eu must assume its global responsibility and it is time to move from talk to action. there is experience of temporary withdrawal of patent protection. it was also done during the aids epidemic, when compulsory licensing enabled cheaper alternative medicines and thus saved millions of lives. the criticism was then exactly the same as it is now: that to touch patent protection would ruin the patent system and hinder research and development of medicines. that was not the case then, and it is not the case now. the reason for compulsory licensing was then the public interest, and the same reasoning applies today, even more strongly. it is not just a question of maximising production but also of price. no amount is helpful if developing countries cannot afford it. through the covax programme, we have committed ourselves to covering 20% of the needs of developing countries. that leaves a lot of need. you have to make a choice. what's more important, people's lives or the investors' profits? the choice should be obvious.
mr president, the aarhus agreement is important. it enables citizens and civil society to have an impact on their environment. the environment and its well-being belong to each of us, not to those in power at a given moment. citizens have a right to know the state of the environment and, if necessary, to hold the polluting or secretive government accountable. the agreement has led to improvements in the legislation of a number of countries, but rights need to be further extended. it is high time to bring eu practice closer to the aarhus agreement. the role of ngos is improving, which is important and good, but the change is not yet sufficient for other public actors. the report is a step in the right direction. the key improvements relate to the transparency of the information and research behind the decisions. we should ensure that the research data behind eu decisions and the research material produced by all the institutions are easily accessible to the public, for example in a common register. the same should apply to the collection of environmental research and data by member states. this act should not prevent member states from granting wider rights to civil society actors and their access to national courts, if they so wish. in my country, finland, the agreement came into force in 2004. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it would be desirable for member states to extend the rights of civil society actors beyond what is required by the treaty. in finland, civil society is present and heard in both legislative and municipal decisions, but too often it remains at the level of formality. it is not enough to be heard, we must be heard genuinely and this must have an impact on the decisions taken. if the circumstances so require, the right must be available to be sought through the courts. it is not enough to have the right to do so; it must also be possible in practice, including economically. otherwise, that right is void. timeliness is also essential. the public authorities must ensure that adequate and comprehensive information and access to information enable citizens to exercise their influence at an early stage, while they still have the means to do so. finally, mr president, i would like to draw attention to the ect treaty, the energy charter treaty, which allows companies to sue states under the investment protection clause, thus slowing down the transition to carbon neutrality and preventing democratically elected governments from implementing the will of the people. this is a serious flaw which must be corrected as the agreement is being modernised. it can't be that corporations have more rights than citizens. so if we really want to improve the citizens' influence, we must also change this agreement.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, this has been an important week for tax justice. yesterday we heard the commission's communication on the reform of corporate taxation. today, parliament will decide on its position on the fiscalis tax programme. i would like to thank rapporteur sven giegold and the whole negotiating team for the excellent cooperation. i also thank commissioner gentilon and the council for the constructive dialogue. the fiscalis tax programme helps authorities to exchange the necessary tax information and to develop it tools and common tax audits. through this programme, the eu is investing €269 million in practical cooperation, information sharing and capacity building between tax authorities. the programme will generate significant tax revenues for member states in the coming years and will pay for itself in many ways by promoting fair and equitable taxation in the member states. clear rules of the game in taxation are needed, particularly in corporate taxation, as the commission said yesterday in its communication. however, they cannot be achieved without crossborder cooperation between public authorities, and this cooperation will be much more effective with this eu programme. the fiscalis programme is therefore a major practical step towards fairer taxation. it is important that the european parliament should be informed annually of the projects covered by the programme and should be able to express its opinion on them through debate. i hope that the progress made in implementing the fiscalis programme will also pave the way for an ambitious anti-money laundering programme and new legislation in this area. we expect the commission to present new proposals on anti-money laundering in the coming weeks. the fairness of taxation requires european cooperation and european solutions.
mr president, we need action in the eu to promote the digitisation of smes, to remove funding bottlenecks and to reduce the administrative burden. but we think we should go even deeper. schools teach many young people to do other work. it gives you the ability to work as an employee, and that is also very important. but does the school, in educating the young people of our societies, provide enough basic information about what entrepreneurship is, what its values and ideals are and what its importance is for all social development? and does the school tell you that entrepreneurship may one day be an option for many young people? my hope is that, as part of the drive to encourage our smes to take a new leap, we will encourage our young people more and more to enter the entrepreneurial world from primary school by means of education and training.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this is the first time the european parliament gets to vote on a biodiversity report that has targets based on science. politicians have only recently started to listen to scientists who are telling us that it is the web of nature, ecosystems and biodiversity that our very own existence depends on. and these ecosystems are under threat both in europe and globally. we must now halt the decades-long and increasing loss of nature on this planet and in our own environment. our food systems and other biological reasons we have all depend on healthy and resilient, biodiverse ecosystems. scientists now tell us that we must protect at least 30% of land and water to stop biodiversity loss. this report is based on realistic and sufficient action to protect our european nature and our own future, in forests and in cities, in rivers and in meadows. on behalf of the greens, i urge parliament to support the report in its entirety. then we can press for similar goals globally in the un cop15 this autumn. on land, the majority of biodiversity is in forests. unfortunately, the eu’s forests are not in good shape. we are told by the forest industries not to worry. sustainable forest management will fix it, they say. unfortunately, this is not true as our forests are not currently managed sustainably. the report says that between 2011 and 2021 close to one third of eu forests were assessed as having a bad conservation status, and over half were assessed as having a poor conservation status. therefore i urge, my dear colleagues, that we must vote yes for this landmark report in its entirety. we must vote yes for protecting all remaining old growth and pristine forests. a large portion of our endangered species live in these forests and they must be protected. we must vote yes for allowing pro-forestation. we must endorse a legally-binding biodiversity law and a legal solid framework. we must support more sustainable agricultural systems with fewer pesticides and less excessive use of fertilisers. dear colleagues, i urge you all to side with science and support this living planet and its rich nature.
mr president, biodiversity is not only valuable in itself but also an essential part of the solution to climate change. the stronger the biodiversity, the better the ability of our planet to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead. the biodiversity strategy we have adopted is already the third of its kind, and biodiversity continues to decline. this simply cannot go on any longer, because we have an emergency on our hands. the sixth extinction wave is underway. i therefore strongly support the call for binding legislation in this excellent report. the main causes of the degradation of nature are found in land use changes in both agriculture and forestry. we must be able to change these patterns of action on a sustainable basis. it is clear that voluntary action is not enough. if there were enough, we wouldn't have this disaster on our hands. biodiversity deserves and needs an international consensus and commitment to end biodiversity loss, such as the paris agreement.
mr president, the necessary restrictions on movement and isolation have added to social problems. the opening up of societies and mobility must be pursued as quickly as possible, without compromising health security. the negotiations have led to a significant improvement in the commission's original proposal, particularly as regards data protection and people living in border areas. however, the card presented still contains problems. the proposal does not want to make free testing available to everyone, which means that free movement is only for those who can afford to pay for it. by the time the card was introduced, not everyone had access to two vaccines, and even after that, many people, for one reason or another, don't have access to the vaccine. they are left with the option of a negative test result, and the cost of testing varies widely across europe. the fact that free movement is dependent on wealth is contrary to the principle of free movement and denies europeans their fundamental right to it. this is a discriminatory practice that could be addressed by providing free testing for everyone.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the european high-performance computing joint undertaking has the possibility to provide the needed calculating infrastructure to help us solve some of today’s and tomorrow’s problems, ranging from identifying viruses to providing solutions for combating climate change. so it’s important that we, as europe, build on the successes we have already achieved in this field. the greens are happy that the parliament calls for openness, gender equality and interoperability and respecting gdpr and other eu rules in developing the euro hpc. a very positive element is also the availability of supercomputers to various groups of people and ensuring that the computers aim for energy-efficient operation and running with clean energy. these eu-funded supercomputers should be exemplary in every possible way, used for the common good and access to all researchers and students also should be included, also start-ups. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur for the inclusive approach on the file.
on behalf of the left. mr president, the climate law now presented contains serious problems, but its objective must nevertheless be supported. it sets a binding target for the eu to be carbon neutral by 2050 at the latest. it proposes the establishment of a scientific advisory body and calls for future decisions to be based on scientific advice, and it notes the requirement to be in line with the law, the requirement to be in line with the paris agreement. it is therefore completely paradoxical that the law itself is not in line with the paris agreement and is not in line with scientific advice. the 2030 emission reduction target is particularly problematic. scientific advice says it should be at least 65 per cent, the compromise now negotiated sets it at a net target of 55 per cent, which means that the actual reduction in emissions is less than 53 per cent, which is far from what it should be. but why am i going to vote for this law, when in many respects it is completely inadequate? because we're running out of time, and this is a clear improvement over the status quo. there is no certainty that a possible new round of negotiations would guarantee a significantly better outcome, but it is certain that a new round would delay the entry into force of the law by at least a year, probably more. and so will all the other decisions that we will need to support the goal of carbon neutrality. we can't afford this. it would be much wiser for jobs, investment and industry and commerce in general to set the target at a sufficient level now than to have to make a drastic upward correction along the way. it's harder for everyone, and it's more expensive. but we will certainly have to do so in the coming years, because the objective of being carbon neutral by 2050 at the latest cannot be achieved otherwise. in that case, we will take a step forward, but we must honestly admit that it will be insufficient to keep us on the path to paris. it does not meet the european demands to do enough for the climate, nor does it relieve us of our responsibilities. those decisions are still ahead of us.
mr president, there is no stable 'normal' to compare with in climate matters, but the 'normal' is constant change. a vast number of climate scientists are questioning the current climate model, which is proclaimed as the only truth. horror pictures of sea level rise, of coastal cities being submerged, have long been painted, but how much has sea level risen? and i say, not at all. there is a lot of talk about vague green growth and the jobs it will bring. it sounds more like the soviet-era five-year plans, and everyone knows how that turned out. where and what are these alleged jobs? are they wind-sniffers hired with taxpayer dollars?
mr president, everyone wants to protect nature, the problem is the means. the eu is aiming to have tens of millions of people switching to electric cars by 2030. where do you get carbon-free electricity? is extra electricity generated by coal and oil? the modern diesel car is more climate-friendly than an electric car charged with coal-fired electricity. the finnish voice is heard in the eu, but it is not reflected in the decision-making process. in taxonomy, a nuclear power that is important to finland is under threat. the finnish industry is not listening to the carbon tax. the commission is also very selective about hydropower. the forest strategy does not take into account the finnish forest industry. if the commission now wants to socialise the finnish forests, the finns must question the legitimacy of the whole eu. today is june 24th, the anniversary of brexit. good luck to britain and a big hello to nigel farage!
mr president, the fight against the climate crisis is urgent. the world's top scientists are warning us more and more loudly that the consequences of the climate crisis are already here and they are getting worse. heatwaves, droughts, wildfires, extreme weather events. we in europe must make the fight against the climate crisis and the accompanying extinction of species our central political task in this generation. so what's the climate bill gonna do now? it is again delaying the achievement of adequate emission reduction targets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's emissions reduction targets are not exceeded. in the light of science, we know that's not enough. it's time to stop making excuses and take action on climate change. that is what we greens in the european parliament are demanding and that is why we are voting against this objective. it's not enough.
mr president, stopping climate change is indeed one of the greatest challenges of our time. there is a huge social and economic transformation ahead, and it must be carried out in a fair and sustainable way. in this change, each member state and each region must play its part, but no burden must be disproportionate - neither for the coal regions of central europe, nor for the coal regions of finland. today, the european union is taking an important step forward when we vote in favour of a new climate law. today we are also voting on a public sector lending facility to support a just climate change. it will enable the european investment bank to lend tens of billions of euros in public investment to help the energy transition. the transition to a sustainable and carbon-neutral society will require very large investments, in the billions, not only from public but also from private actors. the just transition loan facility will make it possible to phase out coal and peat. municipalities in finland and across europe now have the opportunity to benefit from this loan scheme for projects such as green infrastructure, efficient district heating networks or employment of peat workers. this proposal deserves the support of all responsible members of this european parliament.
on behalf of the left. mr president, commissioner hahn, unfortunately your speech did not bring clarity, no answers, but above all it did not bring confidence that the commission is willing and will act. this situation can no longer be explained to those europeans who post messages, who are concerned about the decline in nuclear values. why do we keep talking and talking when the matter has already been decided? these guidelines were not necessary. they are not legally binding. they cannot alter the text of the regulation. the regulation itself is a very clear text and can be implemented immediately if the will is there. the urgency is that, especially with the multiannual financial framework and the recovery package linked to this mechanism, there is a great urgency in this implementation. in many countries, there was a critical debate about the recovery package, and for many it was essential that the budgetary conditionality of the rule of law mechanism be included in that package. you cannot fail to deliver on this promise, because the commission's own political guidelines for 2019-2024 state that we will not compromise on core values.
mr president, it should be self-evident that all eu member states are committed to the democratic rights of citizens and to the implementation of the rule of law. but that is not the case now, and that is why we are discussing this subject again here. democratic elections, a free press and an independent judiciary are all essential to the acceptance of every member state and also of anyone who wants to join the eu. at the same time, however, rule of law violations continue in some member states. they test the credibility of the union as a whole and also the use of eu rescue resources. when billions of dollars of relief money are distributed, there must be assurance that the money is going to the people who need it and helping them, and that it is not going to be taken by the dirty hands of any kind of corruption. the commission must now act. obvious violations must be addressed. it's not good to wait.
mr president, we have been discussing christian values here today. it is good that this has been said, but it has been calculated that by 2050 the majority religion in sweden will be islam, so islam will replace christian values at least in sweden. the problem in europe is the endless humanitarian and social migration of young men from the horn of africa and the middle east. denmark is tired of this. denmark wants to move asylum seekers to centres outside its own country. denmark wants to take in zero asylum seekers. international cooperation is of great importance in immigration policy. denmark and the united kingdom are currently discussing the relocation of joint reception centres to africa. i very much hope that more and more countries, like finland, will follow the danish model, and i also hope that the commission will financially support such a model which really works. why aren't there any terrorist attacks in hungary and poland? because these countries guard their borders.
mr president, the new hungarian law is a continuation of a trend in which opposition to the rights of women and minorities has been used as an instrument of dark politics. this is not an isolated case, but part of a wider development in which the rights and freedoms of rainbow people are systematically curtailed and people are thus placed in an unequal position on the basis of gender and sexual orientation. what is particularly repugnant about the hungarian law is that it equates homosexuality with paedophilia and the law is claimed to protect children. this is just a disgusting cover-up to try to cover up the human rights violations. this law is about systematic discrimination and racism, which is completely contrary to our common values. i would like to say to the commission and the council that we do not need any more beautiful speeches about the importance of our common values. we need action now to defend those values. we have the means, we have the tools, but we lack the will. without action, your words echo very hollow.
mr president, i congratulate the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and my colleague grace o’sullivan on the excellent work they have done on this report. they have improved a lot and done a great job with the commission’s proposal. the eight environment action plan covers a crucial decade. this is our decade to get it right, to start living within the planetary boundaries in all our policies, in all fields of the environment. the international energy agency has estimated that to reach our rising demand for electricity and greening our energy systems, we might require as much as usd 131 trillion investment in renewables by 2050. thirty-seven percent of the eu’s recovery and resilience facility should be invested in climate actions but this will clearly not be enough. at the same time, fossil fuels are still being subsidised by eur 50 billion every year. so, dear colleagues, i urge you all to vote for the envi report in its entirety, calling for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies by 2025 and other environmental harmful subsidies by 2027.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur. this report is quite good. you have improved the commission's proposal, and i thank you for that. i would like to raise one initial problem which will not be changed by this report. so while the recipe for solving climate change is ultimately simple: emissions down, sinks up, and cash flows to support the necessary ecological reconstruction, we are not yet demanding changes in the mechanisms of the economy. the report presents the continuation of the economic policy cycle and its process. in order to achieve the necessary systemic change, the mechanisms of the economy must be able to be influenced. the steering mechanism includes a growth and stability pact, which at worst prevents member states from making public green investments. the deficit calculator must be able to exclude green investment and investment in research and development, which will generate the new innovations we need to solve this crisis.
mr president, the freedom and independence of science are important, as is the cooperation between science and those who use its results. we need a more efficient era. i hope that it will be able to attract more young researchers in particular to the research profession. i also hope that the 3% target for r & d funding set since lisbon will finally be achieved. it is also necessary to involve the companies, to get them involved. so, in addition to an inspiring era, we also need a more encouraging framework between science, researchers and industry. it is also important that smes should be included in this cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, the climate crisis is happening now and there is no time to waste, we have already wasted too much of it. fit for 55 means that the eu commits to reducing its emissions by 55% by 2030. that may sound great, but in fact, this is the decade when the systemic shift to carbon neutrality needs to happen in europe and the rest of the world. the eu must be a climate leader. by taking the necessary steps now, we can make the changes more controlled. the european economy and industry appreciate regulation when it is predictable. the success of the coming decades will be built on pioneering, not on following. the ipcc report this summer once again sent a clear message. action is needed now and the goal must not only be carbon neutrality but also progress towards carbon negation. the increase in carbon stocks in the land use sector must therefore be on our agenda now, also in agriculture and forestry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of energy policy, but also of the environment policy. this is what the greens are working for.
mr president, the ipcc is also testifying that there is a real urgency to reduce transport emissions and that electric and hydrogen cars are coming. the commission is making a very good contribution to this. yet, by 2030, there will still be over 200 million cars with internal combustion engines on europe's roads. there's a real rush to reduce the emissions of these cars. it's gonna take more carrots than a stick. i think the commission should take more steps to promote the use of synthetic fuels and renewable transport fuels. i hope so. i also hope that the renewal of the red ii directive will help to accelerate the conditions for the increased use of renewable, zero-emission transport fuels.
mr president, the eu has finally managed the covid crisis well, if we look at the development and distribution of vaccines in the member states. we were faced with a completely new situation, and there were no ready-made models of action. from that point of view, i think we've succeeded, and against that background, we need an agent like the lord. but this process has not been open and transparent. the apas on vaccines are so largely secret that parliament has been unable to carry out its role and to monitor the commission's activities and the use of public funds, even if the commission followed the mandate given to it in the negotiations. the hera now being set up is important and desirable in terms of its functional content, but the commission's choice to bypass parliament is not to be accepted. parliament's involvement and thus transparency must be guaranteed. this chosen legal basis raises legitimate concerns. parliament must be involved in the implementation, planning and operation of hera, otherwise parliament is the rubber stamp on the matter.
mr president, the budget for the turkey agreement has been set at eur 6 billion. these funds should help refugees and support the communities that do the practical work. as regards turkey, the court's special report states that it has not been possible to audit all projects and that the turkish authorities have not provided information on all beneficiaries of the cash grant project. this, combined with the fact that turkey has not allowed international observers to visit and monitor the detention centres, indicates a very problematic situation. there's a high chance of abuse. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's return policy. at its worst, eu funds support authoritarian regimes and have failed to guarantee refugees their human dignity and the fulfilment of their human rights. the eu must put its common asylum policy in order, starting with the realisation of human rights and helping those in need. the right to seek asylum is not now exercised at the eu's borders, and that is completely unsustainable. this cooperation with turkey is very questionable.
mr president, there are a wide range of geopolitical interests in the arctic region, but the priority for the european union is to promote regional and practical cooperation. it is in the interest of all the nordic member states and the union as a whole that military tensions in the arctic be kept to a minimum and that peaceful interaction and cooperation in the region be promoted. the eu should step up its own activities in the arctic. the union should seek observer status in the arctic council, which would formalise the union's direct influence. the protection of the region's fragile nature must be a particular priority in eu arctic action. investments in the area must be adapted to the natural marginal conditions. the eu must play its part in promoting new transport links within the framework of the natural fringe.
mr president, energy poverty is a real problem and i see it as the sum of many things happening at the same time. it is important to analyse the causes of the price rise, so that we can choose the right means. one obvious reason is the rise in the price of natural gas, but there are many factors behind this which should also be analysed. the production of wind and solar energy is affected by geopolitics - and of course emissions trading - but this situation serves as an example of the need for europe to become energy self-sufficient, and it can be achieved by switching to renewable energy. we must accelerate this transition while reducing our dependence on fossil fuels, but also on russian natural gas. in acute emergency, short-term solutions are largely in the hands of the member states, often in terms of social policy, but for the eu we can promote energy efficiency and changes in heating systems and, above all, accelerate the transition towards sustainable energy production.
madam president, over 80% of the price hike of electricity in europe has been caused by the increase in the price of fossil gas. some 93% of fossil gas used in the european union is imported. a lot of it is imported from countries like russia. we know that there is serious doubt about market manipulation, also here in the price hike, in addition to what has happened globally with an increase in demand in countries like china as well. so that is something that the commission needs to look into very thoroughly, and we could – and should – increase the role of the commission in international energy contracts done by eu countries. but, if we think about this in the long term, and also about european households and businesses, the signal is very clear. this has to be the last energy price shock created by fossil fuels in the european union, and we can do that. renewables are cheap and renewable build up should be scaled up fast. with this transition and making sure that renewables are increased in europe, we get rid of this gas dependency that is creating this shock in the short term. we should not go into changing the market logic in, for example, creating a price ceiling for fossil fuels because that would only increase our dependency on fossil fuels, and that is the cause of this price hike. that is something we can’t do. what we must do is to support the individual households with social tariffs and social contracts, energy loans, that are already there to get rid of gas boilers, to go into renewable heating and cooling, and to go into energy efficiency, and we can also do that during this winter with our member states. so the energy transition has to be hastened.
mr president, fossil electricity is being phased out, and that is a good thing. however, the rapid rise in electricity prices proved that unless sufficient renewable and zero-emission capacity is built, things will go badly. and as the integration of european electricity markets progresses, the price increases will also affect countries that themselves are building more and more clean, zero-emission energy. the volatility of electricity supply is increasing, in particular as a result of wind power. we in europe have forgotten to react to the radical change in the structure of electricity production. sometimes we have too much electricity, but often we have too little. we need more control. we need a system whereby member states are obliged to maintain sufficient regulatory capacity. progress in this area is, in my view, a prerequisite for continuing to increase the integration of the electricity market.
mr. speaker, the new revelations by investigative journalists, these pandora papers, are opening up a world of unfathomable secrecy. we should thank the journalists and free the press once again. what do you want me to do? there is a need to increase transparency in business ownership. the actual beneficiaries of complex corporate structures must be disclosed. the blacklisting practices of tax havens must be tightened up. the anti-money laundering legislation needs to be reformed. the tax practices of multinational companies must be harmonised. there must be agreement on the level of minimum corporate taxation. the key to resolving all these issues lies with this parliament and the council. only strong european legislation can ensure that in a world of fast-moving money there is some level playing field.
mr president, the fact is that our european taxation is still like swiss cheese - with rather large holes. the lalucq report under consideration is an attempt to reduce these tax loopholes and deserves our full support. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other negotiators for their good work. finally, the member states must show determination and commitment to building a fairer tax system. however, yesterday's news about the council's list of tax havens is not very encouraging. it is now too difficult to get on the eu's list of tax havens and too easy to get off. i am working on the reform of money laundering legislation as rapporteur for the report by parliament. the pandora papers also indicate that money laundering regulations must be reformed and controls improved. the same should be said for the obligations imposed on, for example, auditors and other professionals who have a role in facilitating money laundering. the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income is a very important one.
mr president, this debate is not about poland, it is about the european union. the values on which the eu is built, the values to which all the member states subscribe, and at the heart of which is the rule of law. the exercise of public authority must always be based on the law. without an independent judiciary, there is no guarantee of this. the independence of the judiciary and thus the rule of law are being called into question by the current polish government. the central element of the rule of law is a free and independent judiciary. how else can we ensure that justice is uniform and the same throughout the union if the rule of law and the values associated with it are not included in the priority principles? in addition, the right to seek asylum is not currently exercised at the polish border. the rights and living conditions of the rainbow minorities have been severely restricted, and polish abortion legislation deprives women of the right to decide about their own bodies. the current polish government has therefore crossed the line whereby the distribution of the rescue funds must be linked to the rule of law mechanism.
mr president, this is an historic opportunity to update our competition policy to be in line with the sustainable future for the climate and for the environment. so i urge you, commissioner, to be bold in the reform as we cannot fail. we have made commitments at the g20 level to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. we signed on to the paris agreement that calls for making finance flows consistent with climate—resilient development. so it should be clear that we should not finance fossil fuels. we should not prolong the life of fossil assets, for example by coal firing biomass. and we should not fund fossil gas and call it transitional, as it would only lead to a dead end of stranded assets. so i urge you to be bold in the reform because we cannot fail. also, we are not just facing a climate crisis, but a biodiversity crisis. our migratory fish have suffered for a long time because of a lack of access to fresh water. so when we, for example, invest in hydropower, we have to also take into account biodiversity. this is as important as the climate crisis.
mr president, commissioner, when we protect nature, we protect life. man is one species among others. we are part of nature, and understanding it is also essential for our own future. we cannot live by destroying nature, the very conditions of our lives. the un conference on the environment has just unanimously declared that global deforestation is an existential threat to the future of humanity and other species. the un human rights council, for its part, last week decided to recognize a healthy environment as a human right. this is a major global human rights step. similar provisions on the right to the environment are found in the national constitutions of many countries. i've been to finland myself to interpret something like that. the charter of fundamental rights of the eu also calls for a high level of environmental protection and for improving its quality. we are talking about concrete actions, for example, to prevent people from dying from air pollution in europe and to strengthen the rights of local communities all over the world, for example, the right to intervene in environmental problems in mines. we have a lot of work to do, and we must work together to strengthen the right to a clean environment.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the smooth and constructive way in which he has conducted the negotiations. they were for a while. they were challenging but the speed with which they were dealt with was due to the delay in starting these joint projects, for reasons other than parliament. the eu has a strong foundation in basic research, which we are determined to develop. but it is vital that the results of the research be put to use. this requires applied research, and firms and skills to promote innovation, its commercialisation and its commercialisation. that's what joint ventures are all about. in addition to the eit and seeic, partnerships with research organisations and industry are instruments to address this need. europe must pool its resources to research and development in strategically important fields and to exploit the benefits quickly. with the efforts now being made, we can expect to find european solutions to the global challenges we face. i consider it particularly important for the eu's climate efforts that the joint undertaking for a european circular economy and biobased solutions is involved with the nine strategic initiatives of the regulation, with the other nine strategic initiatives.
mr president, there are a lot of promises and commitments on climate now. but where are we really? the unep emissions bubble report shows that, with the decisions taken so far by the parties to the paris agreement, we are heading towards warming of more than three degrees, whereas under the paris agreement we should aim for a half-dozen. that is why the glasgow summit is of the utmost importance. it must turn those promises into concrete action. we need effective short-term measures and we need decisions now. we still need tougher emission reduction commitments to get us on the paris path. we need a systemic change. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector. we must stop the search for oil in the arctic. we need a deeper understanding that biodiversity and global warming are not separate issues. while we must strive to protect and restore the natural carbon sinks of forests, we must also take care of biodiversity. the stronger the biodiversity, the better the ability of our planet to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead. and as a rich continent, we have a duty to shoulder our historic responsibility and act as a bridge builder between the northern and southern hemispheres so that developing countries also have a real opportunity to take action on climate. and we need to be able to agree on a global carbon neutrality target that will allow us to get to 1.5 degrees.
mr president, the glasgow cop meeting is not just one of the climate meetings in an unending row. i’ve been to a few and i know how people can treat them, but this is the checking point of the paris agreement where we check whether we are in line with our climate targets. if we fail here, the next checkpoint five years from now will be too late. so i would urge you, commissioner, and the whole commission, to treat this as the vital climate meeting that will decide whether we can achieve our global climate agreements and keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. currently we are using our carbon budget globally within the next 10 years. it will run out in the 2020s if we don’t change our policies. even five years from now, when the next checkpoint is, it may be that temporarily the temperatures are already above 1.5 degrees. so many countries have long-term goals, even china, but few countries have short-term implementation and this is where the eu must push for all countries to come with real commitments, contributions, in the short term, phasing out fossil fuels, financing climate investments in poorer countries, and making sure that we are on track in the next few years to get emissions down seriously. if we fail on this, it will be too late to achieve our targets with policies in the 2030s, so this is your job.
mr president, as has been said many times, we are putting methane into the atmosphere much less than we are putting carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, and methane is there for a much shorter period of time. but methane emissions are vastly more dangerous and harmful than other greenhouse gas emissions. that's why we have to attack them. agriculture is the largest contributor to man-made methane emissions, followed by energy. in the energy sector, the identification of methane leaks and the correction of errors in the natural gas infrastructure is a particularly urgent task. in this respect, satellite technology is key to identifying the most problematic areas of high emissions. however, i would like to draw particular attention to methane emissions from agriculture, and particularly from livestock farming. a very significant proportion of the methane emissions from manure and sludge can be produced as biogas, a raw material that replaces fossil raw materials. the process also produces a dry matter which is very suitable for use as a biofertilizer. as part of the european green development agenda, the eu should promote the production of biogas in the member states. in some member states, such measures have already been taken on their own initiative. methane-based biogas is suitable for a wide range of uses, including transportation and heating. it can also be liquefied, which further expands its uses.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, it is 30 years since the first money laundering directive was adopted. since then, four other directives have been adopted. yet the recent report of the european court of auditors is a sad read. the anti-money laundering measures taken in the member states have been fragmented and lacking clear priorities. money laundering continues to be a real problem for billions. the legislation is hurting ordinary consumers, but hundreds of millions of euros are still being transferred from one account to another without any real obstacle. criminal money also provides a genuine security for our community. we need to take drastic action. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. in addition to national supervisors, a european supervisor is needed. the real beneficiaries of money transfers must be identified and the countries with a high risk of money laundering must be listed without hesitation.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and also for the good presentation, the presentation of the changes that we have made together during that work. we live in a world of measurement and measurement, by the way. in hospitals, our diagnosis and treatment is based on the fact that our body's activity can be monitored and measured very reliably and accurately. surgeries would be much more dangerous if we couldn't rely on the accuracy of our instruments. modern manufacturing, from the finest treasures of the digital age to the conquest of space, requires extremely precise measurements. the international operation of trade and exchanges would not be possible today unless we were all in the same time, exactly the same time. atomic physicists are thrilled to have achieved a measurement of one millionth of a second, and the existence of an infinitesimally small particle has finally been confirmed. and finally, here in parliament, our decision-making, our decision-making on climate matters would be impossible, at least with that precision, if we did not have measured and reliable data on, say, emissions. accurate measurements create trust and confidence across borders. metrology, the science of measurement, underpins all of this and maintains, among other things, the international system of measurement. it is a central factor in all the possible activities of our society and our economy. at the same time, metrology is facing increasingly fierce international competition, as has been stated here on many occasions. it is therefore important that the eu continue to support metrology research and innovation through and through these joint undertakings. it is now important that we complete the political preparations here and that we can concentrate on getting the partnership off the ground.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, metrology is an old science, but it’s also a more and more important science for our future. when we are relying in the future more on data to tackle climate change and to turn our societies into more digital ones. that means that we really need more exact measurements, also in the future, and more standardisation. so we very much welcome this good proposal from the commission on increasing our cooperation on the partnerships on metrology. this public-private partnership is a good way to show that europe creates more value also to the member states. i’d like to thank the rapporteur, ms da graça carvalho, and the shadows for their good cooperation on the file, the commission also for their willingness to help in finding compromises and the council on being constructive. from the green side, we especially welcome in the outcome the stronger representation of the scientific community in the joint undertaking. it’s obviously important that the scientists also get to define the content of cooperation, because they know where the scientific needs are going. so it has to be science-based and not just bureaucracy-based. the improved openness in governance and results is also important, as well as increased transparency as we set up new bodies that also include people from outside the national institutions. and also important to keep eu money for projects, for content and use international contributions to cover the capped administrative costs. we would like also to see in the future more equality in science with different types of people, with different backgrounds, different geographies, different genders involved in this cooperation, and are very happy that the partnership aims towards this. most importantly, we got this report active this year, and thus we are more swiftly starting better the coordination of national measurements institutes to benefit science and society for all europeans.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we are talking about strengthening strategic autonomy in the european union. there is a point. our dependence on the rest of the world for so-called critical raw materials is alarming. the commission communication lists 30 ores and minerals as critical. in addition, there are 137 other substances of concern. in the eu we are particularly dependent on the very raw materials on which modern technology in the world is based. our dependence, particularly on china, is alarmingly high. some critical raw materials are hardly imported at all, while others are subject to disruption in supply chains by international politics. such dependence may also be an obstacle to eu action towards a green transition. only a few per cent of the raw materials needed to produce wind or solar electricity come from the european union, perhaps a couple of per cent of the raw materials for robotics, and the situation is not much better for the rare raw materials needed for the automotive industry, information technology or the battery industry. the strength of this committee's report is that it recognises the great potential of recycling and reuse to make up for the shortcomings. however, recycling and imports alone will not meet the challenges of critical raw materials. europe also has a moral and ethical responsibility to develop and expand its own sustainable european mining wherever there are raw materials and opportunities. these opportunities are found, for example, in the northern regions of europe. they must be capable of being used in an environmentally sustainable manner. the new technology gives it a good chance. a big thank you to the rapporteur for her excellent work!
mr president, when the rest of the world is starving, we are having a climate emergency. in the face of climate religion, we are asked to reduce or even to abandon meat eating. this means that the number of cows will also decrease. i'm defending the cow. the cow is especially valuable to man because of its ability to produce food for man from inedible hay. climate change affects the crop, but even a bad summer cannot destroy the grass the cow eats. instead of eating soybeans grown on fields cleared of rain forest, the finnish cow eats grass supplemented with feed grains and soy-free protein. so don't worry, let the cow do the mucking. a biogas plant can be built around a modern cattle farm, using cow manure as a substitute for fossil fuels. the eu cannot stop climate change or influence weather conditions, but we can influence whether we have enough food in the future. apeli kokkonen, a finnish farmer, wonders about the short memory of decision-makers. only 150 years ago, one in ten people in finland died of starvation. in finland, self-sufficiency has been weakened and agriculture is being made increasingly unprofitable. imported food is not a climate issue. dependence on imported wheat - in any crisis - will bring us a new famine. if we don't have food, then nothing else matters.
mr president, i fully understand the disappointment of civil society. it seems hard to understand that the leaders of the states are not able to make adequate decisions, even though all the scientific data is available to us and its message is clear. with the current decisions, we are heading for a deadly warming. but the most important thing about the glasgow outcome is that it still keeps the paris agreement target of 1.5 degrees alive. the path to paris is still possible, but it's going to take a lot. it will require that everyone's pledge and declaration become a binding decision, and it will require further tightening of emissions cuts in europe as well. for the first time, the abandonment of fossil fuels is mentioned in the final report. although the wording is not as strong as we would have liked, the message is still clear. the era of fossil capitalism is over, and climate solutions must be based on scientific knowledge. the most important thing now is to achieve sufficient real reductions in emissions in the short term. planting trees and compensation models are important, but without adequate emission reductions, they are meaningless because we are running out of time.
mr president, the speeches on eu solidarity with vaccines which have been heard in this chamber by the commission are an embarrassing blank when you look at what the commission actually does. the rich western countries, including the eu, have stockpiled the vast majority of the available vaccines. the division between rich and poor countries is stark and unfair. during the aids epidemic, patent protection was temporarily removed, saving millions of lives. the pharmaceutical industry did not collapse and no company lost its ability to operate as a result. there would be no interest rate vaccines without billions of euros of public money, and so it is entirely reasonable and also our moral duty to temporarily remove patent protections so that all the production capacity and know-how available can be used and vaccines made available to all people. the right to health must be put before the pursuit of profit. and this selfishness of the rich countries is not even in our own interest. as long as the virus is spreading freely, the likelihood of new variants will increase. no one is safe until everyone is safe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, last year, renewable electricity surpassed fossil electricity for the first time in europe, and it looks like the eu and most member states have met their 2020 renewable energy targets. so there are positives in this report – but there is also a negative. we are lagging behind on energy efficiency, and quite badly in a number of member states. meeting the renewable targets and not the energy-efficiency targets shows that nationally-binding targets actually work, because we’ve had those renewables in 2020. we need to ensure that also our 2030 framework is fit for purpose and fit to deliver beyond the 55 percent greenhouse gas reductions, so we should look at strengthening the current proposals in the parliament and in the council. i have also actually met with a number of industries, talking about the energy transition, and the energy companies are telling me that the pace of renewable development is not fast enough and that, due to this, they may need to transit via fossil gas, even in companies that wouldn’t want to do it. so if we look at the iea scenarios, we are actually going down in the fossil investment prognosis for net zero targets, but renewable deployment in europe is three times too low to what we should do with our 2050 net zero goals. this is something where we have to look for increased action: new deployment of renewables. and it means that in the council they are actually discussing the ambition on renewables and efficiency to be lowered, and that seems really the wrong direction for europe to take. also, if we go into the energy report, we should also look at the governance regulation that is needed to ensure that we have timely information and a better understanding of how to achieve higher targets. so we should improve early spatial planning for renewables and grids, and we should also be able to help them to build up, especially if we get local actors on board. so that is something i urge you to do in the commission. to close, i would also like to note that recovery and resilience plans are expected to boost climate-related investments by eur 177 billion, but we are still annually subsidising fossil fuels by eur 52 billion. we should change that immediately.
mr president, the situation with the corona has taken a turn for the worse with the new variant. at the same time as we in europe are vaccinating the third round, the average rate of vaccination in the developing countries is about 6%. it's just the nature of this pandemic is that no one is safe until everyone is safe. we must ensure that all the know-how and production capacity available is also used in developing countries. one essential part of this is the temporary withdrawal of patent protection. it is absolutely necessary, but it is not a sufficient solution on its own, and practical, concrete measures are needed to ensure that vaccinations are carried out. however, despite the increase in donations through the covax programme, not all of its vaccine doses have been vaccinated. it takes expertise, infrasound, equipment, and skilled handlers. if we don't get vaccines to everyone in the world, then the last variant is not going to be omicron. it is time to acknowledge that the current means are not sufficient to ensure global justice.
