member of the commission. madam president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr zarzalejos, for the work he has done in recent months on this report on the european arrest warrant. i am delighted to have the opportunity to be here with you today to discuss this instrument which is essential for the area of freedom, security and justice. the european arrest warrant is the most effective criminal justice instrument in europe. it is an essential tool for transferring persons suspected of having committed an offence from one member state of the union to another. it ensures that suspects and convicted persons cannot escape justice within the union. as evidenced by the number of warrants issued and executed and the considerable increase in the number of questions referred to the court of justice in this area, the european arrest warrant is widely used by legal practitioners and the court's case law has made a significant contribution to strengthening the uniform application of this instrument and to ensuring respect for fundamental rights. of course, as the commission already pointed out in its july 2020 report, there is room for further improvement in the functioning of the arrest warrant. this is also recognised by the member states, which adopted conclusions on this in december 2020. in your report you also included a number of suggestions. i would like to stress at this stage that the commission has taken note of this report with great interest, particularly in the context of our work on improving the arrest warrant. let me give you some concrete examples. first, on respect for fundamental rights, i want to stress that there is no doubt that european arrest warrants need to respect our fundamental values. the system is structured on that basis. as you know, the respect of fundamental rights is underlined in the framework decision itself. clear standards for its application have also been set by the case law of the court of justice. in particular, the court has confirmed that a refusal is possible on fundamental rights grounds as regards detention conditions and the right to a fair trial, as well as in exceptional cases. furthermore, respect for fundamental rights is also enshrined in the eu's procedural-wide directives, which have to be fully transposed and implemented in all member states. but our work is not limited to that. the commission intends to continue its reflection on possible additional guarantees for the protection of fundamental rights. as your report has highlighted, the issues of admissibility of evidence and pre-trial detention are particularly relevant and require a thorough analysis. we will carry out studies on these topics to examine more closely the existing problems and the need for possible european rules. let me turn to your reports proposal: the modification of the list of offences for which no double criminality check is required. firstly, i would point out that the list as it stands covers most of the offences that member states consider serious offences within the eu. having said that, the commission will look into this issue through a gap analysis to see whether further offences would need to be added or whether a more precise definition of the offences as mentioned in the current list is needed. as you know, the commission is also working on an initiative to expand the list of eurocrimes with regard to hate speech and violence against women. this will result in more common eu offences no longer requiring a double criminality check. moreover, any possible modification of this list would not only affect the functioning of the european arrest warrant, but would likely also have an impact on all of the relevant material recognition instruments that contain a similar list, such as the european investigation order. another point. the commission welcomes the soft law measures recommended in your report. as you know, the commission is already providing funding for training and networks on the european arrest warrant, and we intend to continue to do so. we also share your focus on the importance of reliable data. the commission is currently investigating the possibilities to expand the digital actions platforms to judicial cooperation instruments such as the european arrest warrant. this will lead to better comparable data in the future. we agree with your focus on the importance of direct contacts and consultation between judicial authorities. i hope we can also improve the situation by a closer alignment with all relevant parties through the european arrest warrant coordination group that was recently set up by the commission. finally, we have started revising the handbook on the european arrest warrant. it will contain an update of the 33 new judgments delivered by the court of justice on the instruments since the last version of the handbook in 2017. before concluding, let me return to one last point which i consider to be fundamental. the commission attaches the utmost importance to the full and correct transposition of the framework decision on the european arrest warrant. so far, we have launched infringement procedures against seven member states on transposition issues and will continue, if necessary, this year. we welcome the fact that some member states are planning to amend their national legislation to address the identified shortcomings. this is essential work if we are to achieve the optimal functioning of the arrest warrant throughout the union. i thank you for your attention and i now look forward to hearing your questions and comments on this instrument which, i repeat, is probably the most important instrument in the functioning of our criminal justice throughout the european union and of course the cooperation of the member states in this area.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the draft law. madam president, commissioner, dear rapporteur, the european arrest warrant is one of the pillars of the schengen area; it is a pillar for security, but also for freedom and for the fundamental rights of all europeans. there is no free movement without cooperation and without trust in security and the fight against crime. but today, 18 years later, and speaking as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, the mandate remains one of the best instruments for constitutional integration of our internal legal systems. but, having come of age, the european arrest warrant is ready for more. it must be brought into line with the treaty of lisbon. he needs to be adapted to the new world of crime. it needs more harmonization. as in the schengen area, so in the area of security, freedom and justice, the european arrest warrant needs a strategy for the future, a strategy that is up to date, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the union. the european arrest warrant is one such instrument. and it's proven to be a successful tool. whereas at the beginning of this century it took an average of one year to exchange a suspect within the eu, today it takes an average of one and a half months. justice is now eight times faster, thanks in part to the european arrest warrant, a little-known but very important part of our joint cooperation in the field of justice in the eu. it is true that the context has changed in the last 20 years. the digital transformation has also changed the nature of crime and there is therefore a need to adapt this instrument to the present times, for example by adding crimes already mentioned which have become more relevant in recent years, but also by looking closely at conditions of detention, proportionality and procedural safeguards, and an absolute prerequisite for cooperation in this area protection of the rule of law in all our member states. yes, there are challenges to the european arrest warrant and mr zarzalejos has spelled them out very well in his report, but it does not detract from the fact that - as the report also says - the european arrest warrant has been, is and will continue to be an extremely important instrument.
the adoption of the european arrest warrant by a governmental framework decision in 2002 was a giant step forward in the area of freedom, security and justice. it is a political decision by governments, which overcomes the old extradition procedure by means of a judicial procedure which is guaranteed, binding and directly operative, and which does not require a double-incrimination test in a list of thirty-two offences. since then it has been a success story: 43 000 european arrest warrants have been successfully completed, reducing extradition times from the old two years to an average of 40 to 50 days. however, the passage of time - the enlargement of the european union from 15 to 27 and 28 members in 2002 - has made it more complex, but also more unequal, and has shown, in the succession of crises since then, the erosion of the principles of mutual trust and mutual recognition on which the area of freedom, security and justice enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, article 82 of which binds all the member states, is based. that is exactly why the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i chair, has adopted this own-initiative report: precisely to examine, re-evaluate and re-impulse the european arrest warrant, learning from the lessons of experience. this means addressing the need for training to implement the european detention manual, addressing the current divergences between the different procedural systems and their safeguards in the member states, harmonising european criminal law... but also extending the list, free from double criminality, to deal with crimes such as gender-based violence, environmental crimes or crimes against humanity or genocide and violence against the constitutional integrity of the member states. all this while respecting the principles of proportionality, necessity and minimum intervention, but above all by reviving the european order to overcome its restrictive refusal, which is prohibited by the case law of the court of justice of the european union, and by ensuring that in no case does the guarantee of fundamental rights obscure a review by the requested state of the quality of the judicial organisation or of the competence of the requested states in judicial matters. if this initiative is adopted - as we hope - in this european parliament, it will be up to the commission to take the legislative initiative. because that is what an own-initiative report is all about: to bind the commission to bring forward an update to a code of european judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is one of those days when we can feel the usefulness of this parliament. we started the legislature with a clear idea: the european arrest warrant needed to be revised to minimise, to improve, of course to avoid impunity in the schengen area, to better protect victims of crime in the european union and to also improve the safeguards for persons involved in crime. thanks to the loyal collaboration between the major political groups in this house, we have an implementation report which clearly shows us the blind spots of this cornerstone of judicial cooperation in the european union, the euro order. minimising - as i say - impunity in the schengen area is key. and it also means adapting judicial cooperation to the new times, to the digital revolution, to the threats, to the new threats to the rule of law. because the world is changing and our standards must improve with those changes, with those mutations also of crime. we therefore want a more proportionate mechanism, which means not using the instrument for minor crimes, but at the same time being effective in prosecuting the most serious crimes, such as threats to the public order of the member states and crimes against the constitutional integrity committed with the use of violence, not forgetting other crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes. as legislators, we must continue to improve this mechanism and i am personally committed to working on it.
for the greens/efa group madam president, andrew symeou is a british citizen who was charged with involvement in the death of a man in greece and handed over to greek justice by a european arrest warrant in july 2009. he then spent ten months in appalling detention conditions and was prevented from returning home until july 2011, when he was exonerated. two years of a life wasted, away from loved ones and with a violent interruption of his studies. although this case is emblematic and a little better known than the others, it is not an isolated one. the consequences for people's lives are dramatic. it is difficult to have figures on these abuses, which are due to a variety of reasons: disproportionate use for minor offences, failure to respect fundamental rights or simple police error that a remote hearing could have demonstrated. however, the european arrest warrant is an indispensable tool for the development of this judicial cooperation which is the guarantee of a true european union, and it avoids many of the problems associated with traditional extradition. that is why we must evaluate it with the utmost seriousness and sincerity. the proper functioning of cooperation instruments is based on the principle of mutual recognition and implies mutual trust in the legal systems of the member states, but the deterioration of the rule of law and freedoms in our union no longer encourages blind trust. in some cases, judicial independence is weakened, as in hungary. it is even being questioned in poland. today, the immense responsibility lies with the judge concerned by the request alone to decide whether or not to extradite a person to a member state, where his rights may not be respected, without real european support or resources at his disposal to investigate and justify his refusal. the european parliament must therefore send a strong signal that the application of the mandate is accompanied by strong procedural guarantees, both in the issuing and the executing states. above all, we must guard against any political exploitation of these tools and, in this context, we deplore the occasional lack of retreat on the part of some members of the european parliament and the importance that spain's national interests have taken over from a global watchful eye. it is proposed to add the mention of the crime against the constitutional integrity of a country to the list of offences requiring neither verification nor debate. this opens up a terribly dangerous breach. such a provision would endanger many political activists in the european union, as the notion of constitutional integrity can lead to so many interpretations, our constitutions are so different. we cannot allow conflicts of interest in one member state to have a policing impact on the whole european process. the european arrest warrant can be a very effective and positive tool for victims, for a european union which guarantees rights and for confronting mafias, major crimes, violence and terrorism. but it must be used wisely, with vigilance and proportionality. national courts must be trained, alternative procedures used, fundamental rights respected, interpretation ensured in proceedings, and improved conditions of detention. we also thank the rapporteur for including our proposals on fundamental rights and we thank the commissioner for pointing out the necessary developments and the necessary conditions of justice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report of the european court of auditors is a great moment in this parliamentary year 4.0. the court is doing serious and incisive work that you should read. why did the anti-fraud office investigate only 34 of the 107 alerts sent by the commission? why are only 55% of cohesion expenditure accessible in the arachne fraud detection tool? in reply to this report and before this parliament, the commission even stated that it did not have statistics on the impact of corruption in 2019. unfulfilled work, ineligible activities or beneficiaries and a sharp increase in irregularities in public procurement: in the end, the auditors conclude that in 2019 the level of error is generalised. the auditors therefore gave a negative opinion on the expenditure of the european union. as for the european structural and investment funds, €300 billion of commitments were still unpaid at the end of 2019, two years behind schedule. france had absorbed only 45% of the funding to which it was entitled. and you want brussels to manage €750 billion of post-covid recovery? in its reports, the court also finds it surprising that the recognition rate of afghan asylum seekers varies between 6 and 98% depending on the member state. the french know which side emmanuel macron's france is on. in fact, in a recent report cited by le figaro, the un estimates that nearly 16 million afghans are in need of humanitarian aid, which is causing french authorities to fear a large wave of immigration. so for a long time now, paris has no control over anything in the security, economic or health fields, except to control and punish those who forget the curfew at 6 p.m. colleagues, let us take back control of our destiny, this money is ours.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this report you propose strengthening the single market as a mantra, when it is precisely the only policy that has been implemented by the european union since maastricht and which has led to such a lack of love for our institution on the part of the citizens of the continent. however, it was the application of such a laissez-faire that weakened our european economic and industrial structures and left us severely deprived when the health crisis emerged. you advocate the creation of an internal market scoreboard to monitor the performance of member states, as well as restrictive indicators, so that the commission can establish binding and monitored annual targets for reducing barriers and opening up the market, with the possibility of infringement procedures. i am very much afraid that the french social security system will thus appear to you to be too restrictive and will thus be dismantled to satisfy your liberal aims. your unlimited openness would thus be articulated by a task force on compliance with the application of the single market rules. it is to be feared that this policy of liberalism will further distance the peoples of europe from their real freedom and from their ability to control their economy. but what keeps me thinking is your repeated call for the ever-wider opening of europe's borders. so your proposal would be as authoritarian in respect of the dogmas of free trade as it would be lax and disrespectful of the expectations of the people in respect of unwanted but nonetheless imposed immigration. this text thus embodies the european policy which is doing so much harm to europe by alienating european citizens from its good idea, terrified by its diversion to the service of the global market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and, above all, for having succeeded in finding a fair compromise between the various political groups. the services sector is important for the single market: 9 out of 10 jobs in the european union are created by this sector and better harmonisation can mean up to 2% more gdp. i am in favour of increasing services, particularly crossborder services, which will create new job opportunities, but at the same time i am saying that this is not the right direction for the bathing sector. unfortunately, certain aspects of the bolkestein directive have created a legislative framework which is unfavourable to the bathing sector, which is strategic for the tourist sector. in european countries such as italy, where the beach tourism economy is an important part of the economy, more appropriate and effective solutions are needed than those currently provided for in the services directive, for which it would be necessary to clarify whether it is also applicable to concessions in cash. that is why i shall abstain from voting on this initiative.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again i welcome the own-initiative report on services. it stressed the crucial importance of the single market for services and that much more needed to be done to make it more efficient. we all know that it is not easy to push integration forward in the sensitive area of services. these difficulties are clearly evident in our debates on services in this house. but we need to improve the single market and work towards a greener, more digital and more resilient single market that delivers results for all. this is all the more important in the present context, as we try to chart a way out of the crisis. i therefore count on the support of the european parliament and look forward to our continued cooperation in continuing to work, to remove obstacles and to work towards a fully operational single market for services.
in writing. – one of the best ways to ensure the prosperity and wellbeing of european citizens for generations to come is by completing the single market. the eu single market is one of our greatest strengths: it stimulates competition and trade, improves efficiency, raises quality and helps cut prices. it accounts for 450 million consumers and 22.5 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). however, we still have to take some steps before the true completion of the single market. an area in which the single market can be strengthened is in the free movement of services. services account for 70% of all economic activity in the eu and create 90% of new employment. cross-border trade in services, on the other hand, generates only 6.5% of the eu’s gdp. this shows a clear need to further stimulate the free movement of services by effectively and coherently implementing existing legislation, the use of public procurement where needed to reduce the costs of cross-border procurement for smes, micro-enterprises and self-employed, and the use of the european semester to remove administrative and regulatory barriers when presenting country-specific recommendations. completing and strengthening the single market is also crucial to a resilient economic recovery from the covid-19 crisis.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my sincere gratitude for the efforts you have focused on the european year of cultural heritage and for your valuable work on this report. a warm thanks goes to the rapporteur, mrs melbārde. we all know very well that the european year of cultural heritage was a great success, with almost 13 million people taking part, 23 000 events organised in 37 countries. but it is a common success because it involved all the eu institutions, the national coordinators and civil society organisations in a truly multi-stakeholder approach. this success is also due to the excellent cooperation and support of the european parliament. the european year of cultural heritage was not a one-off initiative, we continue to implement a longer-term vision to manage, safeguard and enhance europe's cultural heritage, because, yes, cultural heritage is the soul of europe. it is part of our european and national identity. it gives us a sense of common identity and inspires us to a better future. cultural heritage is an economic asset, a unique asset, and contributes to social cohesion. and this is the case of the european framework for action in favour of cultural heritage, which, as you know, includes more than 60 activities aimed at amplifying the results of the european year. several activities in the framework are already responding to the calls in this report. the challenge is to follow up. i was also pleased to note that the cultural heritage in action project is mentioned in your report and this project is an example of action included in the framework, which corresponds to the integrated approach to cultural heritage. it is therefore crucial to maintain the cooperation, the single political dialogue, which was achieved during the european year. and that is why in 2019 we created a group of experts on cultural heritage that serves as a platform for cooperation and policy coordination. i would like to thank once again the honourable members mrs melbārde and mrs šojdrová, who represent the european parliament in this group. now, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on some of the key issues raised in this report. as a starting point, i am pleased to see that it places a high value on education and skills, and rightly so. the report stresses the importance of educating young generations about their heritage and history and i couldn't agree more. in this respect, a very good example of the legacy of the european year is the joint project with unesco on the integration of intangible cultural heritage into school learning curricula. as the european commission, we are very much attached to this important aspect: the safeguarding of cultural heritage necessarily implies the safeguarding of the skills of cultural heritage professionals. the commission is mobilising funds for action in this area through the various programmes we have at our disposal, from creative europe to erasmus+. now we have to think about what new instruments we can use in the framework of the european education area, in the digital action plan, and how we can use micro-skills and centres of professional excellence to expand learning opportunities. as you know, climate change and its impact on cultural heritage is a matter of great concern to us. the commission brings together experts from the eu member states in a working group to identify and exchange good practice and innovative measures to protect cultural heritage from climate change. experts are working towards a report to be published in 2022. the report also mentions economic potential and sustainability. preserving cultural heritage is an expensive activity. member states' public budgets are sometimes subject to severe constraints, including as a result of the current crisis. that is why we are organising a two-day workshop next week on other sources of funding for cultural heritage. in december, we also launched a climate education coalition. culture is at the heart of climate change. tackling climate change requires innovative and creative exchange across many disciplines, including culture, and this must be one of our top priorities if we are to build a sustainable future for europe together. in addition, in the context of the european capital of culture initiative, networking and synergy activities with innovation capitals, green capitals will also continue in the framework of the joint action plan we have adopted with the committee of the regions. this deserves more attention. the commission also gives high priority to sustainable cultural tourism, which is closely linked to this issue. the working group on sustainable cultural tourism, composed of representatives of the member states, is a good example of the work done in the field of sustainability. this group created the first ever definition of sustainable cultural tourism and made over 50 recommendations. however, cultural heritage is not limited to tangible and intangible aspects. the year 2020 has shown us as never before the importance of accessibility to digital cultural heritage. i am pleased to note that the rapporteur stresses the importance of the europeana project. the digital europe programme is also expected to support the digital transformation of cultural heritage. and that's how i come to innovation. innovation related to digital heritage reminds me that cultural heritage is also a strategic area of the commission's research and innovation policy. around €600 million is already allocated to cultural heritage in the horizon 2020 programme. we are going to have a new cluster with a budget of €900 million in the new programme. today we must ensure that they are more visible, but above all that they are accessible to the greatest number. and it is precisely within the framework of the horizon europe programme that we will be working, including for innovative services such as the cloud, i.e. a collaborative space of european cultural heritage, a reference to a possible cloud of european cultural heritage, as requested by the european parliament during the negotiations of the horizon europe programme. in addition, we also need high quality digital educational content that draws on european cultural diversity and creativity and this is why the commission is considering launching a feasibility study on the creation of a european exchange platform. europe must catch up and create its own common space to share certified online resources and link existing educational platforms. finally, cooperation on illicit trafficking, to which the report also devotes attention, is one of the commission's priorities in the field of international cultural relations. unesco is one of the union's most important partners in the fight against illicit trafficking. the union supports several unesco training and learning modules for different occupational categories. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you at this point for your attention and look forward to hearing your discussion of this interesting report.
for the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, thank you for your very constructive, and i dare say not only formal, but also such a personal, enthusiastic approach to this subject. it was an honor to be a shadow reporter and to work with my colleague mrs. melbarde on this report. much has been said about the importance of cultural heritage. cultural heritage, that is our roots, that is our identity, and that is why we should recognize it, we should care for it and also pass cultural heritage to future generations. it's our dna, but it's also an economic benefit. in the czech republic, we have no sea, so we say: "monuments are our seas". it's a source of revenue for our tourist trade. but italy, for example, we know very well that the antique monuments in rome, for example, have a greater financial contribution than the exports of the automobile industry in italy. and we can continue to look at other countries. in short, we should care for cultural heritage not only for its value but also for its economic value. our report also speaks about this and highlights, among other things, the need for digitisation, the need for networking between institutions, monuments, schools, the benefits for the young generation, education. and we also emphasize cooperation with unesco. i would like to say that cultural heritage is an inspiration, and that is why we are calling for a new european year of cultural heritage that can take up the challenges of today. whether it's digitization, whether it's new directions in architecture, the so-called green architecture of the new bauhaus. i thank the european commission very much for its support and i hope that the new european year of cultural heritage will be and will be a success.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the cultural heritage in times of pandemic will remain an image, that of the waters of venice once again crystal clear. a picture that should make us question the evolution of a more respectful and sustainable tourism. but the cultural heritage in times of pandemic will remain mostly closed doors. our monuments, our museums, our contemporary architectural works, no more visitors. it is therefore urgent to protect them and, above all, to prepare them for reopening and to support those who work in them. we cannot leave our cultural heritage in the dust. the national recovery plans and react-eu must provide funding as soon as possible, and regional funds can and should also be mobilised. the instruments and budgets are there, all that is needed is the political will of the executives: the commission, the states and the regions. so let us build on the momentum and success of the european year of cultural heritage, which in my view has been under-exploited, by building a genuine european strategy for heritage, by enhancing it, making it visible, using digital technologies and showing that it is a common good in constant evolution, a heritage of yesterday and tomorrow. it is key to our economy, to the economy of our regions, but above all it is indispensable to reflect our diversity and our european cultural wealth. to show how much we're connected.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in this context where our heritage sites are almost completely closed, where millions of cultural professionals struggle every day to survive, it was very difficult but also very important to make the most of past successes. last week, a man from the cultural sector in the southern neighbourhood said to me: 'now you understand what life without culture is like.' he was right. this unprecedented pandemic crisis has reminded us all of the essential value of culture for making society, for accepting differences, for building social bonds, for seeing the world differently, for discovering the other than oneself. but once again our colleagues on the far right are speaking out against the project of a heterogeneous, non-hierarchical, shared and inclusive culture. i am particularly proud to have tabled an amendment to include the cultural and linguistic heritage of minorities in europe in any reflection on european heritage. cultural heritage is a common good, a universal and multicultural common good. culture is a bridge between peoples, between societies. it must heal the wounds of the past and lay the foundations for the future: this must necessarily involve the recognition and respect of other cultures, in particular by the restitution of property stolen or plundered during waves of colonization. our cultural relations are a reflection of our societies and identities. i invite my colleagues to work together and with courage to engage in a deep reflection on our history, memories and colonial past, as well as on our present and especially on the common future we must build with each other, because as richard hoggart so well said: 'no culture is the whole truth'.
mr president, 'not essential' is the expression with which culture has been condemned in france, as in many of our countries. the coronavirus crisis, like any crisis, has acted as a revealer and it has shown what our societies, our leaders, considered absolutely necessary or absolutely superfluous. not essential book and reading. for months, offices, supermarkets, tobacco shops remained open, but bookstores were closed. theatres and cinemas are not essential. we can debate this in this house, fortunately, but the artists are not allowed back on the stage. the works, the historical sites, the heritage of europe are not essential. would shopping malls be safer than our 90%-closed museum galleries? more profitable, perhaps, that's for sure. as if the only essential needs were material, as if only immediate consumption was a vital emergency, all that the civilization that made europe has taught us is that real life begins with the life of the mind and if we do not find the meaning of existence there, then why do we fight so much for the health of the bodies? the crisis we are experiencing threatens the already fragile life of our cultural fabric and hits hard at its core: actors, musicians, lecture guides, publishers, craftsmen, thousands of them have already been forced to change their profession today. with them, it is talents, promises, essential skills that are in danger of being lost. what the european year of heritage should serve to reaffirm is that we are europe, the old continent, the one which, steiner said, has the characteristic of being inhabited by its history and its heritage. in fact, europe must now devote a part of its budget to cultural heritage, which is not yet the case, it was a project for the european campaign, it is now an emergency if we want to open our eyes, it is the only real essential.
in writing. today's debate is about the constitution of a useful political legacy in the context of the european year of cultural heritage. we all agree that the culture and cultural heritage of our peoples and nations are treasures inherited from our past, and bear witness to european history and traditions. these are our values, which are rooted in greek philosophy, roman law, the christian religion, the renaissance and the enlightenment. a people that does not know its history is a people that does not know where it is going. we must firmly oppose this pseudo-culture from across the atlantic, this 'cancel culture' which, as its name suggests, wants to wipe out everything that constitutes our identity! already between 2002 and 2006, the issue of europe's christian roots had been at the centre of the debate on the draft european constitution, as supporters of turkey's accession to the eu had worked hard to exclude this reference in the final text, gaining the upper hand. it was a major historical and political mistake. let us take it to heart today not to repeat it !
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner gabriel, we are debating today, for your approval, the technical support instrument, a programme with a budget of only eur 864 million for 27 countries and seven years, but with a very high added value. the commissioner said that the commission's predecessor, with just €220 million over three years, had been able to finance more than a thousand projects in areas as diverse as the design of coastal protection strategies and the development of telemedicine. and in this case, the new instrument, with this increased budget, will allow member states to continue to benefit from this specialised technical support, also in a context of greater need and therefore of greater utility, since we are in the process of drawing up the national programmes in the recovery and resilience mechanism. from the negotiations with the council, i would like to stress that we have managed to include among the objectives of this instrument support for budgeting to achieve climate objectives, the gender perspective and support for the fight against aggressive tax planning, fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. a special thanks to all three speakers for their fantastic work.
the agreement to implement this technical assistance instrument is important, mr president, because it is in practice a key tool for dealing with the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. in substance, however, it allows the commission to continue to provide expertise to member states in order to improve their capacity to develop and implement reforms and investments, in the context of their own plans and in the context of the recovery and resilience of the relevant mechanism. as a political group we have managed to introduce many of our priorities, such as the social pillar, the involvement of the social partners and many others. but i would also like to stress that, beyond health, job creation, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, research and innovation, and the promotion of sustainable investment, we are finally coming to the role which the commission itself should play. the commission itself should provide flexibility, encouraging member states to choose reforms and investments that meet their own needs.
mr president, now that we are finally finalising the legislative framework for the european recovery fund, we are faced with a double challenge: first, to heal the wounds of the great recession caused by the pandemic as quickly as possible, to speed up the approval of national plans, to start immediately disbursing the funds of the european recovery fund to support employment, the most vulnerable and the middle class. at the same time, because the pandemic is still going on, we need to find european solutions to regulate and alleviate the increased public debt caused by the recession and the pandemic and accelerate mass vaccination and faster vaccine production, because if we don't finally contain the pandemic, the economy will not recover.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i have taken good note of the points you have made: reinforced budgets, concrete projects with real added value, the importance of the instrument for the recovery, the importance of women. all of these aspects are very important and i would really like to thank you, but i would like to close with a reminder that we need flexible, high—quality public administrations that are quick to introduce digital services, such as e—health and digital education, and administrations that are better at designing and implementing business support – administrations that pave the way to recovery with strong green and digital agendas, administrations that are modern and ahead of the game. divergence in administrative capacity means divergence in recovery. the technical support instrument is the cohesion policy of public administration, building administrative capacity and implementing growth—enhancing reforms so that no member state or any european is left behind. thank you for this discussion today and several times this past year. i have been encouraged by the speed of the co—legislators and the support of this chamber. let us all keep up the good work!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 january 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. this week we take another step towards bringing the biggest eu investment programme ever to life. the so-called 'technical assistance instrument' which we will adopt tomorrow is much more than its name suggests: it is an essential cog in the 'next generation eu' gearbox, helping member states to plan for the future, supporting the planning, implementation and revision of the development plans and encouraging urgent reforms and investments. first of all, i would like to thank my two co-rapporteurs, the entire negotiating team, the commission and the german presidency of the council of the eu for their excellent cooperation. we have worked together across institutions, committees and political groups to make the already successful predecessor instrument even better. we will put the 'technical assistance instrument' more fully at the service of our future, adapting its scope to our common challenges. we support the implementation of the european semester with a clear link to the country-specific recommendations. we will strengthen democratic control through regular implementation reports and hearings in the european parliament. we're increasing transparency with an online public registry. we're improving visibility with collaborative communication activities. we are increasing flexibility by allowing additional national budget contributions. and we're tightening up the rule of law.
in writing. as we have said many times, the global crisis caused by the coronavirus must be addressed at eu level through common tools. this is the motto of the technical assistance facility presented in the debate, which complements the €672.5 billion recovery and resilience facility. this union contribution, with a budget of eur 864 million, will primarily ensure the economic and social recovery of the member states and the strengthening of the administrative capacity to implement union law. during the negotiations, the european parliament has consistently advocated that the instrument contribute to the implementation of a socially inclusive green and digital transition and to the transparency of the allocation of eu funds. this instrument provides an opportunity for all eu member states to build a more predictable, resilient and socially responsible economic and health system after the uncertain 2020 year. however, it is up to the member states' governments to implement this. there is no doubt that we in the european parliament are fighting for closer integration, and one of the clear results is this new eu instrument, the technical assistance facility, which hopefully all member states will use to help their citizens.
the next item is the report by mrs caroline roose, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on 'more fish in the sea? the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
reporting for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, mrs lulling, member of the commission. - mr president, i am very pleased to be able to present this report to you today on a subject which is very close to my heart. i am an environmentalist, the daughter and wife of a sailor, and a friend of many fishermen in my area. while some people here, including in this parliament, are still trying to oppose fishing and the protection of fisheries resources and biodiversity, the fishermen i meet have understood that they depend on it. this is the main idea of my report. more fish in the sea means both achieving our environmental goals and protecting biodiversity. but it also means that fishermen can continue to fish in the long term. the year 2020 was to be the year when the european union was to achieve good environmental status for its seas and the year when all fish stocks were to be exploited at sustainable levels. since the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2013, real progress has been made but the objectives set are not being achieved and there is urgency. the situation is very different in the atlantic and mediterranean areas. a while ago i met with fishermen in brittany and normandy. they explained that some species, such as the st. james's shell, were doing very well, but they were seeing other phenomena, such as the proliferation of sea spiders due to warming waters and climate change. the situation in the mediterranean is alarming. over 80% of fish stocks are still overfished. so we have to go further. the scientific knowledge of fish populations, but also of the interactions between different species, needs to be strengthened. the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet should be able to use the catch quotas set out in the tacs for the stock of cod and haddock in the baltic sea. all quotas must also be set in a transparent manner and never beyond scientific recommendations and levels to achieve maximum sustainable yield. i also proposed in this report to study the relevance of new indicators such as the mer (maximum economic return). it aims to fish below the level of the msy (maximum sustainable yield). this would improve the resilience of fish stocks and the economic viability of fisheries in the medium and long term. in preparing this report, i met with many stakeholders from the fishing industry and environmental associations. i am lucky to live by the sea, close to several marine protected areas, including cap roux in the var. as a fisherman was showing me around the marine protected area, we saw a trawler coming in to fish right in the middle of the area. his observation, which i have heard repeated by many fishermen and associations i have met, is that many of the marine protected areas in europe are only protected on paper: no monitoring, incomplete management plans when they exist... using different methods, ngos and scientists have come to the same conclusion: while we boast of having protected 10% of europe's seas, less than 2% are actually protected. the biodiversity strategy sets the objective of having 30% of european waters covered by high-level marine protected areas. this is a great thing and is in line with the recommendations of the scientists, but it will only be a large-scale eco-bleaching operation if these protected areas do not have real management plans and control measures. the acceptance of marine protected areas by fishermen is a key element of their success. all actors must be involved in the establishment, management and monitoring of these marine protected areas, starting with fishermen and scientists. so it is also necessary to explain: 30% of marine protected areas, this does not mean that fishermen are excluded from 30% of the maritime spaces. within the 10% that will benefit from strong protections, there should be areas where all fishing and economic activity is prohibited, but in the majority of protected areas only the most destructive fishing techniques should be restricted according to local characteristics and the seasons. there are examples. very few fish restocking areas have been established since their creation in 2014. however, there are fish recovery areas, such as the one in jabuka/pomo set up in 2017 by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which are already bearing fruit. the project is located in a strategic location where certain species, notably hake, breed, and has helped to restore populations of this species, visible beyond the marine protected area, and has won the support of local fishermen. let us take inspiration from this for all marine protected areas. fish populations are also faced with climate change and various sources of pollution, such as wastewater treatment, pesticide use in agriculture, cigarette butts thrown into the sea or from beaches, sunscreen, etc. we need to study these phenomena better so that we can act on them. it is also important that the resources of the future emff be mobilised towards the objectives i have mentioned: the establishment of these high-level marine protected areas, their management and control, research on selectivity, training of stakeholders, such as for example sworn guards. i invite the commission to use this report for the implementation of the biodiversity strategy, which must be translated into binding legal texts, for the action plan for the conservation of fisheries resources and the protection of marine ecosystems that you announced for this year and for the evaluation of the common fisheries policy, also in the coming months. i would like to conclude by thanking my various fictitious rapporteurs whose spirit of compromise has made it possible to have a complete report. i was pleased to work with you on this report, even though the negotiations were mainly conducted through our teams. thank you to the ngos, to the fishermen who helped me with this report. let us continue this work for nature, for fishermen and for more fish in the sea.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, how can we not share the objective of preserving and restoring marine species as mrs roose's report calls for? a few weeks ago i was in mayotte and réunion, meeting fishermen who have been fishing in these tropical waters for generations, and i would like to express their concern here: we have never seen marine species so vulnerable. of the four species of tuna in the indian ocean, only one was in a state of alert only five years ago. today, only one is out of danger. stocks of all other species are collapsing, so there is an urgent need to react. the first priority is to find the way back to a sound, controlled and environmentally friendly fishing, as well as to the wisdom inherited from its own tradition. fishing is a wonderful relationship with the balance of life and not with a material that is available indefinitely. innovation and technology must enable us to extend and pass on this heritage. let's be clear, the drifting fish-gathering devices that have proliferated in recent years have had a major impact on the survival of species. they divert marine migration, trap young fish, increase bycatch and contribute to marine pollution. we must find a way back together to a shared responsibility with all the actors concerned. secondly, the european union must make its partners accept clear and respected common rules. we must put all our weight in the balance together to get out of the denial in which many third countries still persist, which can only lead to disaster. we can only achieve this with real firmness by demanding regular checks like those which are currently being carried out on european fisheries. finally, we need to improve our knowledge of these species by investing ever more in science, with the support of fishermen. we are not here to believe that fishing is a form of crime against the sea, and it is only with fishermen, the first explorers of the oceans, that we can learn more about them and preserve species and biodiversity better.
the agenda includes the report by ms marie-pierre vedrenne, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 654/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of the union's rights relating to the application and enforcement of international trade rules (com/2019) 0623 c9-0197/2019 2019/0273 cod)) (a9-0133/2020). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the european parliament liaison offices in the member states.
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the report on the application of the trade rules will be submitted to you for your approval. tomorrow, with its adoption, you will be the voice of a more credible, efficient and ambitious europe. tomorrow, with the amendment of this regulation, you will be meeting the expectations of our businesses, of our citizens, for a europe that is self-affirming and protective. tomorrow, with this vote, you are allowing europe to send a message to its partners that the rules exist and they must be respected. the balance of power, the clashes, the trade tensions - this is the geopolitical context of economic rivalry in which europe must find itself, with a wavering policeman of world trade. for just over a year, in december 2019, the appellate body of the world trade organization has been reduced to a single judge. the us refusal to appoint new members has paralysed the dispute settlement system. in the face of this deadlock, we could not remain idle and the revision of the regulation, together with the commission's original proposal, was therefore welcome. the council quickly agreed to this, establishing a kind of status quo. we as parliamentarians have understood the importance of this revision. bold and determined, with a clear mandate, we have succeeded in going beyond. ladies and gentlemen, this vote also represents the voice of a parliament united in the service of europe, which is gaining in credibility, efficiency and ambition. anna-michelle, berndt, reinhard, emmanouil, helmut, thank you for your trust and for this joint work. together we have brought to the negotiations the urgent need to strengthen our trade policy, the pressing duty to defend our european interests, and the imperative to strengthen our legal arsenal. so, with your vote, ladies and gentlemen, new advances will be made. let me get into the details. in order to be able to react, we must first of all be able to give ourselves the means and have sufficient levers of action against states which take the path of unilateral and illegal behaviour. by extending the scope of our countermeasures, we are therefore proposing efficiency for europe. in a world where the share of services and intellectual property rights is growing, the european parliament has therefore convinced the council to open the possibility for the european union to take action not only in the field of services and public procurement, but also in the field of services and intellectual property rights harmonised at european level. and we agreed to meet in a year's time, with an explicit revision clause to extend the scope to all intellectual property rights. commissioner, you are dealing with committed and willing members and we expect much more. so, in the face of our determination to introduce immediate and provisional measures against the manifestly illegal and unilateral actions of a trading partner, the commission seems to have heard our call. you have committed to present as soon as possible and by the end of 2021 at the latest a new instrument to discourage and counter coercive measures from third countries. commissioner, this is an emergency. commissioner, the european union is obliged to have such a deterrent to respond to behaviour that should not be. it is not a question of launching a trade war, but simply of ensuring that international rules are respected and of asserting ourselves as a commercial power. ladies and gentlemen, in this institutional agreement the three institutions, the commission, the council and parliament, have committed themselves with a joint declaration and i very much hope that we will not have to wait until the end of the year for the commission to come forward with a proposal. it is essential to respond immediately to measures which are not or are not in line with international law, and this is a matter of credibility. with joe biden as president of the united states, many imagine that we are safe from the baseless measures that donald trump has accustomed us to. on the american side, perhaps. but the extraterritorial effects of their laws will certainly still remain. other countries are not left behind and it would be a mistake to wait. our toolbox has few screwdrivers or wrenches. it is high time to complete it and it is high time to have all these keys that will allow us to open more doors. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the issues relating to the provisions on sustainable development in our agreements. commissioner, the commission has committed itself to dealing with all breaches of labour law, climate change and human rights law at the same level as complaints about market access, with the european trade compliance officer and the new single entry point. as you know, we want new concrete proposals so that the commitments contained in our trade agreements are not just declarations of intent but are actually respected and applied. i would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that tomorrow we will be here in front of you, and we will be reminded that europe must continue to support the multilateral system and the wto rules without ceasing. with this report we are demonstrating that we are fully committed to combining words and deeds. tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, with the updating of the regulation on compliance with the rules on trade, we will be making the choice of efficiency, credibility, ambition and our strategic autonomy. i would like to thank once again all my colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs, the german presidency and vice-president dombrovskis. when we are united, we can move europe forward.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming the european common purchasing strategy, a historic first. the vaccination campaign has just begun and we are already facing a new debate, the one on the vaccine passport. it is a legitimate debate, but one which seems to me to be very premature. first, because of a lack of scientific data on the following questions: does the vaccine prevent infection, how long does immunity last, do vaccines respond to variants? secondly, on the ethical side: the passport would infringe individual freedoms, create situations of injustice and discrimination between vaccinated people and others. finally, a vaccine passport will increase the global inequality between rich and poor countries. commissioner, as things stand, our priority must be to enable all people in europe, africa and the world to benefit from this common good. let us concentrate on that!
in writing. – the main eu policy instrument to create a common transport area across europe is the trans-european transport network (ten-t) policy. despite the fact that this instrument achieved a lot throughout the years, a revision today is necessary in order to respond to the new realities and bring the european multimodal transport infrastructure up-to-date and ensure the functioning of the eu internal market. europe needs a new freight route between far east, middle east, africa and eastern, central and northern europe which is economically efficient, multimodal and socially responsible transport. but also, an engine for intensive economic development of the countries in the eastern part of the eu. such a project could encompass 7 eu member states: greece, bulgaria, romania, hungary, slovakia, poland and sweden and will be the basis for the new aegean - baltic ten-t corridor – the missing corridor in eastern europe. this corridor will secure the transport connections and will have the greatest potential for creating socio-economic benefits, which are of crucial importance for the 7 eu member states.
in writing. to ensure that member states' infrastructure networks are connected, we need to use multilateral systems. i believe that the ten-t, with its various infrastructure network corridors, will bring a new level of connectivity, from the north sea-baltic and scandinavian-mediterranean to the atlantic and rhine-danube transport corridors. these connections will cover a large number of infrastructure projects that will transform the european union's travel and tourism sector. this will increase the capacity of member states to improve their rail networks and foster innovation and technological development. of course, the implementation of this project will require a great deal of work by the member states and their citizens. i call on my colleagues to promote this process and to promote rail infrastructure development initiatives.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation of refugees and migrants at the eu's external borders (2021/2503 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i would like to thank the european parliament for keeping on the agenda the difficult situation at our borders and the humanitarian situation of refugees and migrants and giving visibility to this matter. with the impact of the pandemic situation this matter demands even more our committed attention to ensure that we live up to our values, that people arriving at the external borders of the union are treated with respect and dignity. since the start of our presidency a few days ago, we have had the possibility already amongst member states to address one humanitarian emergency situation, the one in the lipa camp in bosnia—herzegovina, but we know quite well that more needs to be done. our presidency is closely monitoring the situation on all migratory routes and we will continue to do so throughout the semester. in 2020 the total number of illegal border crossings at the eu external borders was estimated as 97 000, at the lowest level in seven years. however, while the eastern mediterranean route saw a very significant decrease of nearly 80%, arrivals on the central mediterranean route increased 145%, and overall arrivals in spain also increased 29% compared to 2019. i would like to touch upon developments in greece, in bosnia-herzegovina, in libya and in the canary islands. in january and february last year high numbers of migrants arrived in greece, creating very difficult conditions of overcrowding the islands, in particular the island of lesbos. the number of migrants present on the islands reached a peak of more than 40 000 people. the greek authorities undertook many efforts to strengthen the border controls after the unrest, equal efforts were also made to improve the reception conditions which suffered from the overcrowding of the camps. the arrival of the covid-19 crisis and the fire in the moria camp in september only exacerbated the situation, calling for immediate action. some improvements have been made. the number of migrants in the centre of the island is now approximately 15 000 people. eu funding is in place. more permanent reception structures are in the pipeline and a joint task force has been established to ensure adequate living conditions and faster procedures. the situation remains volatile in this region of the world. the political climate between the eu and our neighbour turkey plays a significant role in the stability of the region and hence on the arrival of migrants, and we need to continue monitoring the situation quite closely. during the next six months, we will continue to devote also much attention to the migratory situation in the western balkans region, in particular in bosnia-herzegovina where around 5 800 migrants and refugees are currently present, mainly in the north west. following strong advocacy by a number of actors, including the eu and humanitarian agencies, we note that the local authorities are making considerable efforts to address the situation, and have now identified an interim solution for some 900 individuals in dire conditions at the lipa site. however, no long-term solution has been identified. we will need to continue to support the authorities but also urge them to provide better reception conditions and efficient services, including access to the asylum procedures for people in need of international protection. regarding the central mediterranean route, conditions for migrants in libya continue to be dire. to alleviate the suffering of migrants and refugees in urban settings or in detention centres in libya, the eu and individual member states have funded projects via the eu trust fund for africa, our implementing partners unhcr and iom continue to do a very important work. this includes also the iom programme for voluntary returns of countries of origin, which has resumed after a long break due to the covid crisis. the same applies for the work of the unhcr to evacuate detained persons of concern to either niger or rwanda, with a view to resettlement in the eu or other receiving countries. let me also mention the situation in the canary islands, where thousands of irregular migrants arrived in october and november in huge numbers, overwhelming for a period the capacity of the authorities to register, identify and accommodate them. the migrants, half of whom are moroccan and half of whom are sub-saharan, come from sub-saharan countries, arrived in small boats and were rescued at sea. the influx led to the deployment of the frontex officers to assist in the first registration and in the notification procedures. a contract was signed with easo to also assist in improving reception capacities, and we strongly encourage the operational and technical support by eu agencies in front line member states. i would like to stress that the humanitarian situation at our external borders is a cause of great concern that needs our attention and more needs to be done, and i trust the commissioner would also elaborate on the comprehensive assistance that the eu is providing at our external borders to improve the situation. but before i finish, honourable members, i would like to say that the presidency is committed to finding better solutions as regards migration and refugee flows. we will give priority to the new pact and migration and asylum and the initiatives that it contains, aiming to establish a common migration management mechanism that is effective, resilient and reliable and safeguards human rights, based on a fair sharing of efforts and obligations. and we are committed to achieving results on the basis of the commission’s last package of proposals. and i say we will foster the deepening of the partnerships between the eu and the countries of origin and transit, including through constructive dialogue and the development of a policy to promote legal migration channels. this is a sustainable alternative and takes into account the objective of integrating migrants, especially unaccompanied minors. we will also aim to implement the valletta declaration and its action plan together with the accompanying regional dialogue and to follow up on the global compacts for migration and refugees, and in this context we intend to organise in lisbon a ministerial conference on migration flows. honourable members, i remain at your disposal and i will listen carefully to your views on this difficult matter.
member of the commission. – madam president, 10 days ago, a mob stormed the capitol in washington. their objective — to overturn an election result. to hunt down lawmakers. to harm elected representatives, even to kill them. they actually did kill a police officer. this was an attack on democracy. that this can happen in the united states is a shock. it was hard to believe what we saw happening live. a tough reminder that we can never take democracy for granted. respect for human dignity, freedom, equality, rule of law, human rights —these values are at the core of our european union. we must live by these values, protect and defend them. the european union must uphold these values. our member states must uphold these values. countries seeking to join us must uphold these values too, as must our agencies. when frontex was accused of involvement in alleged pushbacks, the commission called for a prompt investigation. we called for emergency meetings of the frontex management board, and the board will meet again tomorrow. when there were reports of alleged pushbacks at the croatian border, the commission called upon the authorities to investigate, as is their duty. the commission and the croatian authorities regularly discuss how to improve the existing monitoring and investigations. in the context of these discussions, in november the commission sent a senior mission to croatia, which visited two border-crossing points. the commission is now working with the croatian authorities to set up a good independent monitoring mechanism. the croatian ombudsman and unhcr are also involved. together with the croatian authorities, we outlined key principles in a memorandum of understanding and we look to the croatian authorities for swift signing of this document. this is not a one-off. it’s an ongoing dialogue to ensure high standards are met. under the new pact on asylum and migration, the commission has also proposed for all member states to set up an independent monitoring mechanism. also in bosnia—herzegovina, the commission has been working to prevent a humanitarian crisis from the start. together with the high representative / vice—president josep borrell, vice—president schinas and commissioner várhelyi. the current crisis is a humanitarian crisis, but also a crisis of governance. an unnecessary crisis. a crisis that could have been avoided if the authorities had acted responsibly. each day of this stalemate erodes bosnia’s international reputation. we knew the lipa facility would be closed. it was set up this spring; it was always meant to be provisional. as the iom had clearly signalled, lipa was not built for the winter. there is a ready-made, fully winterised facility standing empty nearby, in bira. this is equipped to house 1 500 people. it was unlawfully emptied by local authorities last september. on 25 december, i urged the authorities to reopen the bira facility, together with high representative / vice—president josep borrell and commissioner oliver várhelyi. that same day, the council of ministers of bosnia and herzegovina decided to reopen the facility. it did so again, 10 days later but so far, the authorities have not enforced this decision. on 23 december, the lipa facility closed. people were now stuck in the freezing cold without shelter. to help these people and break the deadlock, i started calling our partners. on new year’s eve, i spoke with zoran tegeltija, the chair of the council of ministers of bosnia and herzegovina. the day before, i spoke with mustafa ružnić, prime minister of the una-sana canton, and most recently, high representative / vice-president borrell spoke with president milorad dodik, chairman of the presidency of bosnia and herzegovina. we urged them to work together to provide shelter. commissioner lenarčič announced eur 3.5 million in humanitarian aid, to provide warm clothing, blankets, food and medical support. the european union head of delegation and special representative continues to work around the clock to improve the situation. following our discussions with the bosnian and herzegovinian authorities, the army has set up winter tents that now house around 900 people. generators, heating, wooden floors as well as food and medical supplies are on site. thanks to our action, the situation has improved, but only from grave to serious. stopping immediate risk to life is the beginning, not the end of ensuring acceptable, dignified living conditions. winter has a long way to run, and i must admit that it is frustrating to have to set up tents and temporary shelter when we have an empty, fully equipped and winterised facility just 30 kilometres down the road. the commission is fully committed to supporting migration management in bosnia and herzegovina, financially with eur 89 million since 2018, and also with technical support from the commission and the european asylum and support office. we will continue our support but bosnia-herzegovina must show it’s capable of managing migration. it must take responsibility and address the humanitarian situation. as a country with the perspective of eu accession, we expect bosnia and herzegovina to work on sustainable long—term solutions, to set up facilities evenly distributed across the full territory of the country. i am aware discussions between local and national authorities can be difficult. the immediate priority is still to save lives. to stop a humanitarian crisis from turning into a humanitarian disaster. i intend to visit lipa and meet the bosnian authorities in february. the key is in the hands of the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina at all levels. they must show the political will to save lives and provide long-term solutions. of course, we have an acute humanitarian situation in many more areas at our external borders. time limits make it not possible to comment on all of this, but i am happy to come back on that, in my final intervention.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, hell is called lipa, hell is called moria. and do we all remember the debate last summer where we said: no more morias? and yet again we are looking at images of people living in mud, children walking around with bare feet. just a couple of weeks ago, a little girl of three years old was found in the mud bleeding because she had been raped. and yet i hear the council talking about, yes, we’re monitoring the situation and we’re going to enter into a constructive dialogue and have a high—level conference. well, maybe you can explain to me how that’s going to help the children. are you going to, like in a fairy tale of hans christian andersen, are you going to give matches to the children so they can hold a little light to their dying dreams in the mud? is that our level of responsibility? madam commissioner, i know your personal commitment and how hard you work to find solutions, day and night, quite literally, day and night, sometimes we are exchanging messages at a very late hour. but, where is president von der leyen and where is commissioner schinas, who is responsible for our european way of life? is this our european way of life, honestly? well, this is chefsache [a matter for the boss]. and i think the illegal push—backs cannot be tolerated any longer because people have been pushed back into bosnia from croatia. but finally, this house has a responsibility too. we should use our power of the purse to make sure that, when we give money for better reception conditions, that it is spent properly and we can see with our eyes it’s not being spent properly. finally, i call on the s&d and the epp to let go of their hesitation and start a full—blown inquiry into the push—backs and into the role of frontex.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, our parliament is organising yet another debate on the migrants who are flocking to europe's external borders, but is it to finally put an end to these massive and unmanageable flows? i'm afraid not as usual, we hear nothing but tearful speeches, speeches on human rights and calls for more and more acceptance of those who are falsely presented as families in distress. yet on 8 january, the frontex agency issued a press release stating that 'women now represent less than one in ten migrants'. the proportion of so-called 'children' and many known to be actually adults is of the same order. this means that more than eight out of every ten migrants are actually adult men. to take advantage of your weakness, they will soon claim to be all minors or lgbt and persecuted as such. but they're not here for the asylum. almost all of them are economic migrants attracted by an eldorado that, of course, we know does not exist. and it is your decisions, your laxity, and to put it bluntly, your cowardice, that have brought this situation about. you bear a very heavy responsibility, both for the deaths at sea and for the unlivable daily life of the europeans living near these camps, and for the many attacks, crimes, crimes and attacks which result from this uncontrolled immigration. it is time to apply the precautionary principle and return to a reasonable asylum policy, and finally to the only one that is truly just and humane: stop making the whole third world believe that they can come and settle in europe. the key word must be deterrence: we must defend our borders, expel all illegal immigrants, allow for refoulement, rebuild our asylum system so that it ceases to be a channel of immigration. only total firmness, coupled with a genuine african policy, will deter those who would like to take their chances and will finally allow us to control our migration policy. goethe wrote that in the beginning was action. to end lawless immigration, it is time to act rather than talk!
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the situation in bosnia is unacceptable. it’s winter, it’s cold, people are freezing, people are hungry. you have read the reports, some of you have been there to see it. this situation must end. one of the first things is, of course, to open the bira camp. it’s there, it’s ready, it’s winterised — the commissioner has said it. so the bosnian authorities have to be pushed to open it. but we all know that pointing fingers at bosnia is not enough. the elephant in the room is the eu’s shameful border violence, pushback policies and lack of solidarity. i am so fed up with people saying ‘alleged’ pushbacks. we have here documentation, 1 500 pages, with testimonies of the brutality and the violence at eu borders. nobody can say that they didn’t know. you are not in ignorance anymore. what you have to do is to act, and the commission needs to act at all responsible levels. it means even by the president of the commission. what is she going to do to stop the brutality and pushbacks and the violence? also the other member states, like my own country, sweden, will they continue this situation? when will they raise this issue in the council? the other member states have to be clear to croatia there will be no membership of schengen until the brutality stops. the talking has been important, but now my friends it’s time to act. we have a humanitarian catastrophe at our borders.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, inhuman conditions and unacceptable acts of violence are repeated cyclically at the external borders of the european union during declared humanitarian emergencies. there are thousands of people stranded on the icy border between bosnia and croatia and along the balkan route. human dramas are repeated in the greek islands and along the deadly routes of the canaries and the central mediterranean. in the context of a global pandemic, which is hampering rights and procedures, the highest price is paid by children, women, the elderly and other vulnerable groups. emergencies are being addressed without providing lasting solutions, allowing european sectoral legislation to continue to place a disproportionate burden on first-in countries. we must abandon the logic of emergency intervention. the time for words is over. we must work towards structural management, guaranteeing aid for the border member states and ensuring a fair distribution of responsibilities among all the countries of the european union.
madam president, let me first congratulate from this podium on your birthday yesterday. voorzitter, de situatie aan onze buitengrenzen vraagt om duurzame oplossingen. in 2020 kwamen 124 000 vluchtelingen en migranten aan in europa. de grootste groep waren mensen uit syrië, gevolgd door marokkanen, algerijnen en tunesiërs. en er zit nogal verschil in: 85 % van de syriërs heeft daadwerkelijk behoefte aan internationale bescherming, terwijl we tegelijkertijd zien dat 95 % van de mensen uit algerije helemaal nergens voor vlucht. en daar zit meteen ook de uitdaging in voor het beleid van de europese unie: barmhartig beschermen van de mensen die echt vluchten voor oorlog en geweld, terwijl we tegelijkertijd streng en duidelijk zijn voor diegenen die om andere redenen naar europa toe komen. en de nieuwe voorstellen van de europese commissie kunnen ons daarbij helpen: strenge en duidelijke screening aan de buitengrenzen, verplichte grensprocedures voor perspectiefarme asielzoekers, meer nadruk op terugkeer van illegale migranten en meer solidariteit tussen lidstaten. maar één basisvoorwaarde daarvan is natuurlijk dat we – mét volledig respect voor fundamentele rechten – onze buitengrenzen op een goede manier bewaken. en als ik dan zie hoe bijvoorbeeld op de canarische eilanden – de raad refereerde daar al aan – in 2020 het aantal aankomsten met 800 % gestegen is terwijl we nog nog steeds heel weinig informatie over de situatie ter plaatse krijgen, terwijl we zien dat frontex daar slechts met één bootje aanwezig is, zou ik willen vragen – ook aan de europese commissie – of we daar niet wat meer aandacht voor moeten hebben. en tot slot, heel simpel, de situatie aan de buitengrenzen is niet alleen de verantwoordelijkheid van de landen die daar toevallig liggen, maar voor ons allemaal, en het is tijd dat de europese unie als geheel die verantwoordelijkheid ook een keer neemt.
madam president, as we know, european migration policy is based on very clear priorities, and these are not new: to curb arrivals, to limit reception by sorting people and to increase returns. this strategy, which has been repeatedly criticized by ngos and academia, has undoubtedly succeeded in reducing arrivals to europe, but at what cost? it has not solved the problem of migration issues and rights. for years, the outsourcing of migration management has proven ineffective, with more than 20 000 deaths in the mediterranean since 2014, a process of encampment at the eu's borders and, above all, an exponential cost. this policy has increased the rate of violence on the roads of exile and has violated international law with impunity. over the past year, there have been increasing reports of violent returns from croatia, greece, malta and cyprus. how can the commission effectively deal with these refoulements with sanctions? the situation of migrants in bosnia is one example among others. in bosnia, human rights organizations have reported all these difficulties to us. the migration issue, madam commissioner, requires a radical change in policy, an abandonment of narrow selfishness and a return to the centre of this policy of law and humanity.
madam president, many have ridiculed the pathetic donald trump for having the crazy idea of building a wall on the mexican border. yet this is the same policy that our leaders are pursuing here in europe, where since the fall of the 155 km of the berlin wall, over 1,000 km of walls have been erected in the last 30 years to prevent asylum seekers from coming to europe. 1,000 kilometers of walls to isolate rather than protect, to look the other way rather than be supportive. 1,000 km of walls, barbed wire, fences, surveillance cameras, police forces and frontex patrols from croatia to greece, from lampedusa to ceuta, from hungary to calais. the european union is a great example of the kind of cooperation that can be achieved by the european union, and it is a great example of the kind of cooperation that can be achieved by the european union. 1,000 km, which is the happiness of human traffickers, the third most lucrative trade after arms and drugs. 1,000 km to the extreme right, and our leaders are doing it short. a thousand miles of shame. let us stop this flight forward, let us not turn a blind eye to the situation of these exiles trapped at europe's doorstep, nor to the serious allegations of refoulement allegedly made by frontex. let's set up a commission of inquiry, demand justice and humanity.
madam president, 'demography is destiny', wrote the french philosopher auguste comte. facing europe, in front of us, beyond the natural border of the mediterranean, stands a continent of 1.2 billion people, africa, whose population will double to 2.5 billion in 2050. recalling that 42% of africans aspire to emigrate, the gallup institute reminds us that the destinies of our respective continents could be bound by the strength of numbers. the rush to europe is only just beginning. as illustrated by your future pact on migration, your vision of unconditional, unlimited and borderless welcome is not only responsible for the human tragedies in the mediterranean, it is not only playing into the hands of the smuggling mafias who profit from human misery, but it is violating one of the most essential rights of our peoples, that of being and remaining oneself. yesterday, lampedusa, the day before yesterday, the canaries today, the entry points to europe for illegal immigration are multiplying and turning these archipelagos into a state of siege, where the population left behind by the whole of europe must face nuisance, vandalism and sometimes the looting of places of worship. your vision is that of a humanity where migration from the south is a right and welcome a duty for the peoples of europe. listen to what the people want, what the people of europe are telling you and stop this madness.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us look hard and look harder because in this navalny case, there is no such thing as an unreasonable denial of rights and freedoms all at once. this is the intolerable evidence, which this parliament must denounce and sanction, but what the navalny case first tells us is that this regime is now weakened. if he hadn't had the man arrested who came back to challenge him, would he have emboldened the opposition? he could have feared him, but by having him arrested he turned a naked opponent into a national hero engaged in a one-man fight against a breathless president. mr putin is stumbling in syria, stumbling in ukraine, and hesitating in belarus. mr. putin is losing control, his coffers are running dry, his popularity is waning. let's look closer and see the anguish of an old man who no longer knows how to silence this reckless avenger.
madam president, on june 8, 1978, at harvard, alexander solzhenitsyn delivered a speech that has often been described as prophetic. he said, and i quote: 'the western way of life is increasingly less and less the guiding model, it is the symptom of the whistleblowers through whom history sends warnings to a threatened or endangered society. such warnings are, in this case, the decline of the arts, or the lack of great statesmen. the european union did not listen to alexander solzhenitsyn. worse, it presents vladimir putin's turnaround in russia as a threat to it. who really believes that moscow is a danger to paris, rome or berlin? to avoid seeing europe's influence diminish, we invented ghosts. the union is prepared to accept all sanctions and provocations against moscow, because it does not have the courage to break free from the tutelage of the united states and nato. alexei navalny is not a major player in russian politics, and his positions are sometimes at odds with the ideas we are defending here. i would also remind you that mr navalny says that crimea will remain russian for a very long time. the poisoning of the child deserves an international investigation, according to the law in force, that is to say, after assessing the quality of the russian investigation. the european union is therefore blindly trying to support any opposition to putin. this is the opposite of diplomacy and the opposite of what the union is supposed to be for: to support the interests of our nations. unless, of course, the union is seeking to support the interests of another state which has recently shown us the end of its world domination, which is what solzhenitsyn announced. blinded, we no longer see that the discussions, such as the one we have at the moment, no longer cause the admiration of the world, but rather cause its consternation.
madam president! navalny's arrest is another attempt to intimidate the democratic opposition in russia. we are of course appealing to the russian authorities to release navalny immediately, but appeals alone are absolutely not enough. a swift and unambiguous response is needed at eu level. so the council should block russia's access to the swift banking system. it is time to stop nord stream ii a political project that increases the european union's dependence on russian gas supplies. it's time to stop nord stream ii, which is incompatible with eu energy policy. eu solidarity is buried at the bottom of the baltic sea along with nord stream ii. let's call it what it is: supporting nord stream ii is supporting the putin regime. so we should be fully aware that today we should call on the member state that is involved in this shameful project, namely germany, to step back in support of the putin regime.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, today vladimir putin is not afraid of europe or the united states, but of a simple russian citizen whose only weapons are his courage and his youtube or instagram accounts. the pathetic arrest of alexei navalny once again reveals the tyrannical nature of the putin regime. so of course, in this chamber, his little telegraphists of the far right, from the afd to the national assembly, will come again to defend him right here. that's what they're paid for. but their voters must know that voting for them is not voting for the sovereignty of nations, it is voting for submission to these foreign tyrannies. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember the words spoken in this parliament by mr navalny himself. if you want to help us fight this regime, he says, then punish the oligarchs who spend the money they steal from us on you. let us finally do it, let us put our words into action, let us show that we cannot violate human rights in moscow and spend our money in courchevel or on the côte d'azur. let's be worthy here of the courage of the russian democrats over there.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, an hour and a half to discuss the european union's commitments on human rights, foreign policy and defence strategy is to say that our parliamentary control is a mirage. the european union prefers postures to realistic action, it appreciates sanctions rather than diplomacy, it has a big voice but small arms. what have we done this year? we have spoken of the accession of albania and macedonia when turkey was increasing its provocations and interferences in the balkans. we talked about alexei navalny when the war broke out between armenia and azerbaijan, both members of the eastern partnership. we have spoken about the events in belarus, as french soldiers fight and sometimes die alone against islamists in the sahel. in short, the european union has been absent from the major issues, and worse, has fallen into all the traps of international politics. brussels did not support greece and france other than with a few speeches when erdoğan multiplied the provocations. brussels was humiliated by the unilateral withdrawal of the americans from the vienna accords, brussels did not say a word when milo đukanović violently repressed the demonstrations for religious freedom in montenegro. the reality is that the european union abandons its principles whenever the atlantic alliance demands it. the fact is that the european union is a dwarf in international terms, as a result of the hasty enlargement, the submission to nato enshrined in our treaties and the general jealousy of countries which maintain their diplomatic and military independence. the european commission, like the communists of old, responds with the same phrase: we are not federalists enough, we are still too attached to national sovereignty. the european union, on the other hand, is slowing down the emergence of the necessary cooperation between european states, while a multipolar world is being created.
madam president, many of you in this chamber want to set up a common security and defence policy, with a european army, two instruments of what you call this meaningless expression: european strategic autonomy. as we debate this subject today, i want to reiterate that security and defence are the exclusive prerogatives of nations, the rest is a federalist adventure that dares not say its name. rather than seeking to build a european defence and security policy, it is the greatness and independence of nations that must occupy us here. i shall always reaffirm the fundamental doctrine stated by general de gaulle: the defence of france must be french. a country like france, if it has to go to war, it has to be its war. if it were otherwise, our country would be in contradiction with everything it is, from its origins. and what is true of france is also true of other european countries. it's hard to see how they could send their compatriots into action risking their lives outside that framework. in fact, they do little, and i am thinking at this moment of the price paid by france for the five french soldiers recently killed in mali. the only possible framework for the defence of europe lies in the sovereignty of each european nation. as such, france must leave the integrated military command of nato, an alliance whose brain death, as emmanuel macron has effectively stated, no longer conceals the use made of it by the united states to impose its hegemony and the words of president-elect biden make people fear the worst and does not restrain the violent attacks of erdogan, who dreams of imposing on our continent the islamist caliphate he calls his wishes. far from this atmosphere which haunts this house of history and is based on a europe which you want to be a soft power, the id group will continue to defend here national deterrence, national sovereignty, our model of national army and its national financing.
madam president, mr borrell, i would like to thank isabel santos and my other colleagues for agreeing with us on a strong text that shows the european parliament's commitment to respect for human rights. i regret, however, the association of the epp with the far right in an attempt, after the negotiations, to weaken the report by amendments and separate votes on a common, retrograde and misogynist agenda. as negotiator for my greens/efa group, i have paid particular attention to the protection of female whistleblowers; the links between human rights, climate and biodiversity, including the concept of ecocide; all matters relating to women's rights and systemic violence; in defence of freedom of belief, but also of non-belief; we need to speak out against systemic racism, violence against indigenous people, and the need to force our companies to act responsibly and reasonably in their investments. finally, i wanted to denounce the sexual crimes committed by peacekeepers in africa. it is an inexcusable horror that must be seriously investigated and punished. of course, this annual report will not solve the problems and atrocities that have been reported, but it was important to show that we are not blind to them, that the european parliament is listening and supporting the victims. thank you, thank you to all the ngos and citizens who helped us with this annual report. you're also the co-authors. thank you for your commitment, thank you for continuing to be indignant, thank you for not being silent, thank you for not giving up and thank you for helping us to raise the voices of those who suffer. it is now up to you to make this report come to life, use it in your advocacy, do not hesitate to put us, parliament, the commission but also all the other institutions, governments and international companies, before our responsibilities on the basis of this human rights report.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the key lesson of the pandemic is that our weight in the world matters and that we can leverage it. strengthening cooperation between member states in the common defence policy is a key issue, as the future success of the union depends on building a common military defence capacity. proposals to abolish the unanimity rule in the common foreign policy are contrary to the eu treaties. in the end, it is also in the union's interest to maintain the weight of the smaller member states in the common foreign policy. accelerating the accession process of the western balkan countries is a priority in our neighbourhood policy. continued enlargement is of crucial importance for the stability and security of the union as a whole. the biggest problem with the annual human rights report is what's left out. persecuted christians are not mentioned once in verse 135. this is despite the fact that christians today constitute one of the world's most persecuted minorities, numbering 340 million. thirteen christians were killed every day in the last year alone. many of my colleagues in the people's party and i have tabled amendments to this effect, which have been completely ignored. i can only attribute this to ideological considerations.
madam president, mr high representative, colleagues, rahil dawut, perhat tursun, nurbulat oraz, this dossier contains tens of thousands of names, the names of uyghur victims of chinese repression. what are those lives worth? what are these lives worth when we negotiate and sign an investment agreement with their executioners? what are these lives worth to the interests of volkswagen, siemens and so many others? we say we have principles everywhere, so let's defend them. we also have strategic interests, so let's defend them too because the two, our principles and our interests, meet and marry. let us cease to fear our shadow. we are the first market of the world, we will be powerful when we want to be, we have the tools of power, so let us use them. we have a human rights sanctions mechanism in place, so let's use it! i even have a first name, chen quanguo, the chief responsible for the repression of the uighurs, after being the one responsible for the repression of the tibetans. the british and canadians have banned the products of uyghur slavery from their markets, let's do the same! what is preventing us from doing this? ladies and gentlemen, trade is not an end in itself, it is only a means, so let us put european trade power at the service of our principles and our strategic interests. in short, let us be politicians and not merely merchants and then, and only then, will we be powerful.
madam president, dorian, loïc, yvonne, quentin, tanerii, these are the names of five of our soldiers who have died for france in the last 30 days. they will join the 50 other sons of france who have fallen since 2013 as part of operations serval and barkhane. we are at war, europe is at war against the totalitarianism that hates and wants to destroy absolutely everything we are: islamism. we must fight this enemy within our borders, but also upstream, at the root of the evil, particularly in the sahel and the sahara, to prevent the re-establishment of a new islamic caliphate at the gates of the mediterranean. you must be aware, my dear colleagues, that by striking at the jihadist groups there, you are also ensuring your own security, that of your countries, that of your children, who are being protected by the 5 200 soldiers of the french army. because if there is one thing we have in common here in this parliament, it is our belonging to a common civilization, and it is precisely these values that they want to attack. france has a unique voice to support and defend on the international scene, but today france is the only country to pay the price of blood to fight a common enemy on a territory as vast as europe. these sacrifices, you can't ignore them. human, logistical and budgetary support are all initiatives that european states should take to strengthen and alleviate france's burden in the sahel.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, under the presidency of jacques chirac, whom i had the privilege of serving, france has had the honour of recognising slavery as a crime against humanity. in his report, mr santos calls for a stronger international response to combat modern slavery and human trafficking. she's right, you know. unfortunately, it is the european union's lax approach to combating human trafficking that is encouraging the sinister trade in smugglers and fuelling massive illegal immigration to europe. often exploited by networks of smugglers and unscrupulous companies, without other legal recourse, many of these migrants survive only through crime and are condemned to roam our cities and countryside, often against the will of the inhabitants. this reality should be a challenge to european leaders who believe that a generous policy of welcome is possible. the socialist prime minister michel rocard once said that france could not accept all the misery in the world. the same is true for europe. against these intolerable forms of modern slavery, the european union must firmly combat the channels of immigration and fiercely control its borders.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, connectivity is indeed a key issue at the heart of globalisation. several technical aspects of this report are also relevant: the need for strong partnerships with india or central asia, for example. however, i think that this report is flawed in two respects. first, it gives the european union an importance which crushes the nations. we will only succeed in advancing cooperation between member states when the european union has finally understood that it must respect the sovereignty of the european peoples. but the other big flaw in this report is that it is a prisoner of a free trade ideology that is not relevant in asia. we see that china is expanding outward, not because it wants to participate in globalization, but because it simply wants to profit from it. we can see that vietnam is happy to have an agreement with the european union, not to improve its labour law, but to win markets. we can see that the european union is making use of human rights in the region. why impose sanctions on cambodia while ignoring the human rights situation in its neighbours? the silk road is also not well covered. this major project is a clear sign of the emergence of a multipolar world. relations with china as with russia cannot ignore this development. our relations with the central asian republics, notably kazakhstan and uzbekistan, cannot ignore this change either. the european union should serve the interests of the member states by speeding up its relations with project promoters. so yes to progress in our connectivity with asia, yes to independent and autonomous relations from the atlanticist point of view with that part of the world, but no to a report which does not address them from a realistic point of view.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united states is changing its president today after having given the world a shocking spectacle: i am speaking of course of the shocking images from the capitol. this desecration of the temple of american democracy is serious and the deaths, among police officers and protesters, are equally tragic. violation of the symbolic institution of the us capitol is inexcusable, but this violent demonstration was not a coup. joe biden has lamented the unprecedented assault on american democracy. he had said nothing when, a few months earlier, the same buildings were overrun by the radical left and the black lives matter movement. the other overwhelming spectacle that should worry us is the exclusion by almost all social networks of a democratically elected and still incumbent president. it is an unprecedented historical attack on that essential democratic principle: respect for freedom of expression. social media has unplugged donald trump, arrogating to himself the exorbitant right to create new rules. they consider that the conditions for using their services take precedence over the constitution of sovereign states. joe biden is showing his willingness to re-establish american global leadership with bellicose accents. this can only be a cause for concern after donald trump's tenure was marked by years without military adventure, arguably his most significant achievement, after half a century of us military interventions at the whim of successive presidents. when joe biden says, and i quote, "we have to prove to the world that the united states is ready to lead again, not only with the example of our power but also with the power of our example", that's arrogant, that's not america we love. beyond the man and his style, donald trump's electoral defeat does not in any way call into question the political agenda he developed in the united states and which is, everywhere on the planet, supported by the people: regulation of the globalized economy, questioning the role of the world's gendarme of the united states, rejection of political correctness, listening to the populations in the face of growing inequalities. these are the themes of the national rally in france, the lega in italy, the afd in germany and all our allies in europe. and it is this deep respect for people that will bring us to power to protect europe from weakened democratic practices and severely curtailed public freedoms in the name of health security that has a good back.
madam president, the appalling assault on the capitol shows us once again, once again, the fragility of our democracies and the need to constantly defend our rule of law. this is not an isolated incident that only affects americans. let us recall the german parliament at the end of august 2020. our western democracies have for too long made the mistake of underestimating the dangers of the far right. have we forgotten this extreme right which has marked our common european history in its flesh? what happened at the capitol should be a wake-up call to finally realize that it's time to take seriously the serious democratic crises and divisions that our western societies are currently experiencing. this blindness must end and i call on you, mrs von der leyen, mr borrell, mr michel and mr sassoli, to start thinking deeply about these issues. if we do not do it now, tomorrow will be too late, because, as the spanish proverb says, tomorrow is the word that does not want to do anything.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, mr prime minister costa, welcome to the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. i could go on for hours with this sordid list of social plans, so much so that the social crisis is raging all over europe. firms are laying off workers in droves, the selfemployed are strangled by debt, unemployment is exploding - this is the terrible situation in europe at the beginning of the year. this must be the top priority of your presidency. the recession has a positive effect on the profiteers of the crisis who receive public aid without any social compensation. so yes, to distribute dividends to their shareholders, some of the multinationals did not hesitate for a moment, but when it comes to saving jobs, there is no one left. take sanofi, for example, four billion euros in dividends and 1,700 jobs cut. behind these staggering figures are so many lives turned upside down, faces worried, families disoriented, sinking into poverty, sinking even deeper into precariousness. in italy, 3.7 million people have used food aid, in france this is a 30% increase, in barcelona the number of meals distributed has increased by a factor of 20. ladies and gentlemen, in one of the richest areas in the world, people are starving. poverty affects all segments of our society and it hits the young with even greater force. already ignored, they find themselves left out in the cold with this crisis. in france, 50% of students have difficulty eating properly, a quarter have had suicidal thoughts, if they do not already act, like these two students in lyon. a whole generation is being sacrificed and crying out for help, but our governments refuse to listen. the portuguese presidency then declared that it would make the social crisis its priority. on behalf of our left group in the european parliament, i would like to make a simple but meaningful proposal. let's declare a state of social emergency. our parliament recently declared a climate emergency in the face of the destruction of our planet. we must react with the same intensity to the tsunami of poverty that threatens to sweep everything away. let's declare a social emergency for the young people in the galley, for the people in misery, let's declare a social emergency.
madam president, madam president of the european commission, mr antónio costa, i have listened carefully to the priorities of the portuguese presidency and we share the broad guidelines and the broad priorities of this presidency. economic recovery to ensure the implementation of our european budget and our european recovery plan, climate action to approve the european climate law and guarantee at least 55% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030, digital to guarantee european sovereignty, social europe with the preparation of this porto summit, which should give momentum to the european foundation of social rights, as well as europe open to the geopolitical world with an africa summit, relations with the mediterranean, this is strategic autonomy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conference on the future of europe must be an important moment and it must be launched fairly quickly in july. we will have to overcome our divisions and blockages, we will be complete if we decide and debate how to decide together.
madam president, on the threshold of this portuguese presidency, mr prime minister, you expressed your willingness to conclude the pact on immigration, this pact with the devil. this supposedly balanced pact is irresponsible and totalitarian. it is irresponsible because it is organising the submersion of europe, with the stated aim of repopulating it. it is totalitarian because it implements coercive legislation for the states by extending the treaties, in particular articles 79 and 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, by distorting the principle of subsidiarity, by making migration a common law competence of the union, when it was only an exceptional competence. but one treaty can only be changed by another treaty. this demographic globalisation of europe, you want to decide among yourselves, without any real democratic debate taking place. because the existence of europe and its civilization is at stake, we ask you, mr prime minister, to give the people a voice by applying the principle of the multi-millennial europe to which your beautiful country belongs: vox populi, vox dei.
madam president, mr prime minister, i am pleased to see that your presidency will be marked by a revival. but at the same time, the implementation of the repayment agreement requires that the ground be set now. because tomorrow it will be janez janša, the little orbán of the alps, who will take over. will he have the european heart to take this project forward? so, mr costa, i have a question: why does the portuguese programme not mention the own resources, which are set aside and planned to avoid the repayment of the debt by the european citizens? mr prime minister, your presidency is intended to be social and that is very good. but it will only be social if you can seriously lay the foundations of tax justice. it will only be social if the digital giants go into the cash, it will only be social if chinese manufacturers pay the same polluting taxes as european companies, it will only be social if financial speculators are held to account. madam president, mr prime minister, social europe will either be achieved through fiscal justice or it will not be.
before i give the floor to the next speaker, i will now open the first voting session of today. we will vote on the files as they are indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 13.00 to 14.00. 15. the the votes will be taken by the same method used in previous voting sessions. all votes will be cast by roll call. i therefore declare the first voting session open. you have until 14. 15 to vote and the results of this first session will be announced at 19.00.
we now continue our debate on the council and commission statements on the presentation of the programme of activities of the portuguese presidency (2020/2928 ((rsp)).
president, mrs von der leyen, prime minister costa, you can feel it, there is a change of wind in europe. taking care of everyone and making sure everyone can come along, that's our job now. so stop raising minimum wages, get affordable housing, and end the zero-hour contracts. then we can get through this crisis together, honestly. portugal has shown how to get out of a crisis by investing in people. we must apply this lesson throughout europe. i welcome the priorities of prime minister costa for a new social agenda for europe. for that we need binding social objectives. the heads of government and the european commission must sign this at the social summit in porto. i would say: the new dutch government is also involved.
madam president, i say to the prime minister: portugal must be a strong leader to bring us out of the crisis. we need an efficient rollout of the vaccine. our citizens want to know: when will we have enough vaccines, and how should these be delivered efficiently? our health systems are still under a lot of pressure. lockdowns help reduce new cases but are costly, not only economically but also for public trust. public trust which is vital to successful vaccine programmes. mr prime minister, the vaccine is just one part of restoring our economy. beyond the recovery package, we need to plan how to remove the barriers introduced since the crisis and ways to encourage our citizens’ businesses to work and travel cross-border again. i wish you good luck.
madam president, i have been a member of this parliament for 18 months and i already sound like a broken record. every start of a semester i request for my group one minute of speaking time to address the new presidency and to inquire what will you do about the situation in poland? what will you do about the situation in hungary? what will you do about these two article 7 procedures that the council seems to be shying away from, reeling away from, even. meanwhile, democratic life in these two countries is getting worse and worse, and some freedoms just do not exist anymore for those citizens that the council does not seem to find equal to the other european people. we need you to act. will you be in the courageous camp? i remember the finnish presidency. these quite young women – very strange already for a government, young and women – were the only ones that had enough courage, cleverness and political skills to tackle this grave problem. will you lead on this?
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no economic recovery without social recovery. the situation is alarming: with the crisis, the old continent should have more than 30 million working poor, according to the european social observatory. i am thinking in particular of young people and women, who are most exposed to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. europe's inability to overcome social crises is unfortunately not a new phenomenon. yet, in the mid-2000s, european europe seemed to be modernizing its social policy agenda. in march 2008, the importance of the social dimension of the european union was even an integral part of the lisbon strategy. nevertheless, in the following years, the main concerns were to control public expenditure and to carry out structural reforms. austerity became a keyword of the european union's public policy and the social dimension virtually disappeared from the european political agenda. moreover, despite this observation, it is interesting to note that brussels wants to strengthen the social dimension of economic and monetary union, whereas social and employment policies are very much a matter for the member states. this new federalist integration will be confronted with the reality of the many indicators that show the european disparities on social issues. while brussels has learned from its mistakes in previous crises, creating the sure programme to help workers keep their jobs, how will it be possible to effectively combine economic ambition with social and environmental ambition? europe will finally have to clarify its priorities. the arbitration on the recovery plans and the social summit in porto, which will be held next may, will be indicators to determine whether brussels is willing, in name or in fact, to undertake a radically more social reconstruction.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr secretary of state, we reached agreement on the multiannual budget and the corona fund at the end of last year. but that is not the end of the work. that's just the beginning of the work, actually. we must now ensure that these resources are injected into the economy as quickly as possible. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. spending these resources should support recovery, create jobs and allow us to strengthen our health systems, but also - and this is often overlooked today - keep the debt mountains that are now emerging and that are growing every day under control. only economic growth can do that. if we do not stop this growth, we will have inflation and/or sovereign state bankruptcies. neither of these is an attractive development and will certainly put further pressure on the house of europe. so hopefully, these funds will be well spent, and that economic growth will happen, and not what we've seen happen a little too much with vaccines. vaccines are the way out of the coronavirus pandemic, and let's face it, as politicians, scientists have done more than their job. we have those vaccines available today, which is something to be commended. yet, once again, the eu and its member states have failed to deliver the added value that europe should really deliver. critical opportunities were missed. the choice to purchase a portfolio of vaccines is very justifiable and legitimate, but it must also be scientifically justified. the german press is now circulating stories that europe has ordered too few vaccines too late for the sake of french interests. that creates the perception of political bargaining, which is of course totally unacceptable in the current circumstances. even if there are enough vaccines, there are other problems, apparently. in belgium today there is a threat of shortage of syringes and needles, another stockpile tragedy. is this problem also present in other member states and what european solutions are possible? we really need to get answers to that.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, i am here today to ask you to declare a social emergency in europe. as you said, commissioner, the pandemic has led to an explosion in poverty and precariousness. students jumping out of their dorm windows, deliveroo delivery guys lining up for hearty restos. i saw them with my own eyes. they deliver food, but they don't have food for themselves. we are on the edge of a precipice and at our feet, in the abyss, is one of the worst social crises in human history. so i ask you to listen to the alarm cries of the associations that see the march of dismissed workers, of entire families, of tenants who have been taken by the throat. political choices must no longer be made in the light of competition, the market or budgetary constraints, the situation forces us to abandon all these dogmas, but the only thing that must now guide the decisions of the european union is the social emergency. so i repeat, i beg you, let us declare a social emergency in europe!
madam president, the pandemic has altered the global economic landscape. it has led to a profound social and economic crisis: businesses have closed, almost 16 million europeans are out of work. it has also affected vulnerable sectors in a significant way. there is no doubt that crises always hit the least of the poorest, the disabled, women and all minorities. europe has given a solid response, a united response, an unprecedented historical response, putting very strong actions on the table, which amounts to more than 1.8 trillion euros to be able to achieve a more digital europe, a more inclusive europe, a more sustainable europe, a more competitive europe. in order to achieve these results, the member states must act, and to do so they must make reforms: reforms of the labour market, of the pension system; they must focus heavily on economic sectors such as that of my country, tourism. it's time to act. it's the moment of truth. we need to put our batteries in order to be able to give a response especially to those groups that are most vulnerable, because without them, without attending to them, we cannot get out of this crisis.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, this health shock has social consequences and is a source of anxiety for many people. prime minister costa this morning reiterated the commitment needed for a fair, green and digital recovery. the objective that must inspire us and remain: leave no one behind. we know that many jobs are at risk. i am thinking of all the workers, especially britons, with the announcements of social plans coming from large groups. with others, with you, commissioner, we have worked towards an ambitious agreement on the european globalisation adjustment fund for redundant workers. supporting and accompanying people in their conversion, requalification and reintegration is the raison d'être of this fund and covid is becoming a motivation for action. europe is acting on all fronts, but it must go further. the europe of solidarity and social cohesion is being built up every day, but tomorrow it must be even more responsive and even more visible.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis has not spared anyone: employers, employees, associations, the most vulnerable. so, of course, we are not out of the crisis, but i have hope because we are all working tirelessly on this. i would like to pay tribute to the european action. social europe, the europe that protects us, that protects citizens, that protects you and me, was not a given before the crisis. since then, it has become necessary, as we have seen with this european mechanism for supporting parttime unemployment insurance schemes. in practical terms, if some people were able to receive aid from their state, it was because europe was supportive. those with stronger kidneys gave up their money to ensure that the weaker ones could finance themselves. this is european solidarity! mr commissioner, madam secretary of state, we still have a long way to go to get out of the crisis, but what we have done with the unemployment insurance mechanism, with the recovery plan, with the european budget and its various negotiated instruments is to lay the foundations for a social and solidarity-based europe. we should welcome that.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic is the catalyst for what will be, what is already an unprecedented economic and social crisis, aggravated by the dramatic recklessness of pro-european policies that have eliminated one by one the elementary tools of sovereignty. this report therefore proposes to adapt the regulation on the european fund for the most deprived to respond to the explosion of poverty. yes, we must help our businesses, we must help our fellow countrymen in poverty and for this we must make good use of what could be seen here as the generosity of the european union, but which in fact concerns money taken from the pockets of taxpayers. the explanatory statement of this text is confusing, since it states that the data used to establish the distribution of funds will be collected and compiled by so-called specialised ngos. beyond the fact that these ngos would boast of the prerogatives of the states, many of them are highly politicized and serve their own ideological purpose above all. nor should this pandemic be used as an excuse to allow the political whims of technocracy to run rampant. it does not forget that the poor it claims to help today have been plunged into distress and destitution by their own policies: no borders, free trade agreements, relocations, deindustrialisation. this is the real result of europe's globalist policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking lucia, the rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs for the good work they have done. however, you have to say thank you for a job that you have to say: sad that it has to be done at all, that there is even a need for it. the european union is a true place of longing for millions of people around the world. but the work on this dossier shows us that even in a place that is a place of longing for many millions of people in the world, there are masses of problems, there is masses of poverty. i believe that the way we are going to allocate additional funds today - including for the extension of the programme - is not only an important help to those concerned, but is also an extremely important signal. i always notice this in conversations with groups of visitors who say: yes, you in the european union, you in parliament, it is always about the interests of corporations, entrepreneurs, big bosses, important people, for the little people there is nothing in it. with you in brussels, everything always takes so long. i can only say that what we have achieved here at the fead - and in a very short time - proves just the opposite: that europe has a big heart and is looking to those who have been hit the hardest by this crisis. so thank you for your work on this site.
mr president, commissioner, try to keep up with the class when you have to go to school without breakfast. for many children, this is the daily reality. in a rich country like the netherlands, more than 270 000 children are growing up in poverty. even when both parents work hard, some children go to school without a lunch. i find that heartbreaking and unacceptable. poverty holds people back and prevents development. we really need to get rid of that. so i am very pleased with this additional funding in this corona crisis for the fund for european aid to the most deprived. i would therefore urge my colleagues in the hague to make immediate use of the funds from this fund, especially now that there is no government. we need to fight poverty right now by investing more in children.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this second revision of the european fund for aid to the most deprived (efad) regulation since the beginning of the covid-19 crisis, in order to adapt it to the health, economic and social crisis affecting the most vulnerable in all countries of the european union. the revision will make it possible to combat poverty more effectively by increasing the appropriations from the react-eu initiative and the pre-financing in support of field actions. in france, one third of food aid is financed by european funds and demand has unfortunately increased by about 30% with young people, the elderly, women who are using this aid for the first time. this is how much europe's action was expected by the major associations and actors in charge of food aid distribution and i take this opportunity to thank them for their unwavering commitment. however, i regret that the obligation to devote a minimum share of the available react-eu resources to the fead surplus was dropped during the negotiations with the council: the allocation of resources will remain voluntary and without a minimum percentage, whereas all member states should be able to commit themselves in the same direction. i keep saying it: we cannot succeed in europe's environmental and digital transition by leaving more and more people on the side of the road.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to speak today on behalf of my fellow guadeloupians, martiniquans, réunionnais, guyanese and mahorans, who are also affected by the health crisis we are facing. it should be noted that overseas companies, such as those in guadeloupe, have lost 83% of their exports, which will result in direct and indirect job losses throughout the island. in this time of health, social and economic crisis, i believe it is urgent to act without delay for the poorest and most deprived of our compatriots overseas in order to guarantee a minimum for survival. today, our insularity and remoteness create more pronounced poverty factors, which will have to lead to stronger aid to support the families of the french overseas departments. i say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the recovery ambition promoted by the member states and our parliament must include the outermost regions, including the five french overseas departments. i believe that it is important for us to combat poverty in the overseas departments. we must act together, together for our territories so far from europe.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, first of all, a big thank you to kim van sparrentak for the excellent report and for the excellent collaboration we had in the preparation of this report, which i hope will be voted on by a large majority. i would like to return to one point, since we are running out of time. i hope that once this pandemic is over, you will be able to visit paris again. when you walk through the haussmann buildings, i invite you to notice the dirty windows, the full mailboxes, each time it will be a sign that the building is empty and you will see that there are plenty of them. in paris, almost one in five homes is empty: this is called real estate speculation. the fewer homes on the market, the more expensive the properties sell, the higher the rents, and the more the housing crisis worsens. to get out of this crisis, we have to put these houses back on the market and for that, there is a solution, it is requisition. so to all those who are shouting about expropriation and the infringement of property rights, i assure you: requisitioning is forcing a landlord to pay rent every month. it's not the gulag, you'll agree. it will also provide a home for millions of people. so if there is a real reason to shout, let's shout that the right to housing is really fundamental.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the committee on employment and social affairs, and particularly the rapporteur, for the work on this legislative own-initiative report on a very important and sensitive issue: the right to disconnect. indeed, the report addresses this important issue, which is related to the profound changes in the world of work – profound changes dominated by the digitalisation of many jobs and by the way people work and are connected. in the last few years we have witnessed a sustained growth in telework and an accelerated adoption of icts for work purposes. with the lockdowns due to the covid-19 crisis, this gained much more prominence, and it will likely remain a permanent feature in the work organisation. digitalisation has created, indeed, new businesses, new opportunities, new ways of working, living and consuming. it has led to productivity increases, to more flexibility for workers and businesses, and in the context of the pandemic, allowed many workers and many companies just to continue their activities. so if there is, on one hand, an important advance by the digitalisation of the european economy, we have also to have a very, very keen look at the upholding of working conditions and labour law. the new economy cannot develop outside the normal framework of labour law, including also working time. this is not just a social dimension; it’s also an economic one, so we have really to maintain a balance between the development of digitalisation on the one hand, with the extremely important tools we all have in our hands, and on the other hand, the rules, the framework, the laws which protect people, because we want a people-centred development of digitalisation. this report identifies some of the key challenges that new technologies pose, indeed, to the world of work. addressing these challenges is all the more important in view of the effects of the covid-19 crisis, because this has accelerated a lot of these processes. in europe we can pride ourselves on a strong set of social and labour laws which already touch upon some of the challenges raised by this report. we have the working time directive, the occupational safety and health framework directive, the work-life balance directive and the transparent and predictable working conditions directive, to mention the ones which are relevant for remote working and have a direct impact on the ability of the worker to disconnect from work obligations. these laws protect the well-being of european workers and put forward safeguards, amongst other things, against excessive working hours and unpredictable work schedules, including for the ict-based work. we need to explore how best to seize the opportunities and address the challenges posed by digitalisation of the world of work, taking into account national industry and sectoral specificities, as the rapporteur has also mentioned. in this regard, the high-level conference on the future of work, remote work, challenges, risks and opportunities, planned by the portuguese presidency, comes very timely. implementing a right to disconnect is often a matter of finding the right balance between the nature of the tasks, management style, personal choices and company-level rules. certainly a one-size-fits-all approach is therefore not ideal, but this doesn’t diminish the importance of a right. then you have to implement the right according to the different situations, and certainly this can be best done through social dialogue. as rightly set out in your report, social partners have a central role in dealing with issues linked to this right to disconnect. social partners should take a leading role in this regard, and the commission stands ready to assist, ready to encourage. but this means that we have to be all de bonne foi. in the last few years, some member states have taken action by directly or indirectly mandating social partners to negotiate provisions on the right to disconnect. italy, spain, france, belgium are among those countries. and in the past, social partners have already agreed on a cross-industry framework agreement on telework, in 2002 – so quite a long time ago, when telework was starting. now telework is extending, and close to 30% and sometimes even more people are on telework. it would perhaps be important to have a look at this agreement and to adapt it to the present context and circumstances. social partners have also come together to agree on a more recent agreement on digitalisation, concluded in 2020. this framework agreement specifically tackles telework and modalities of connecting and disconnecting from work, and it is currently being implemented at national, regional and local level. in this specific field it is equally important to duly take into account the concerns on proportionality, subsidiarity and better law-making principles. all proposals for union action – and this is absolutely fundamental and applies also to the right to disconnect and eventually action in this field – must be subject, under article 154 of the treaty, to consultation with the eu’s social partners, who may decide to act by means of agreements, to act by negotiation between themselves. so anyway, this door is open – wide open. before deciding on any action on the right to disconnect, the commission certainly has to apply this article and will also discuss with social partners on these aspects. as a certain number of member states, as i recalled already, have already introduced a right to disconnect, many companies also establish this important right through agreements with their social partners, because they have understood what the rapporteur has described: people are not robots, people have limits. so, if you want to have better productivity, you cannot just occupy people 24 hours a day and seven days a week. so i think this is an important contribution, economic and social again, and this shows the importance of this right to disconnect for the good functioning of companies. and very often, by the way, it’s it companies who have introduced this right to disconnect. it underlines also the crucial role of social partners in this field. therefore, the commission is inviting social partners to proactively work together in order to come to an adequate solution for the benefit of workers and companies. certainly the commission is ready to accompany and support them in this endeavour, and then the right of the treaty – also of article 225 – is absolutely there and can be used by the commission if needed. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the commissioner is absolutely right: people are not robots. it’s a very clear message to everyone, and i will now switch to my mother tongue. i will continue in czech because it’s very important to send messages to people back home. pane předsedající, koronavirová krize ukázala, že lidé můžou pracovat z domova, ale že často jsme nenastavili podmínky, za jakých budou pracovat. mnoho lidí se nedokázalo vlastně sžít s tím prostředím, že museli připravovat děti do školy, do toho vyřizovat telefonáty a pak dohánět poštu, která se na ně hrnula ze všech stran. i já mám malé děti a vím, co to je být s dětmi doma. vím, co to je, několikrát zapínat nefungující připojení do školy, aby se spojily s paní učitelkou. a tady vidím jako velice důležité, že nejenom já, ale i řada z vás jste si tím prošli. a víte, že je důležité, abyste měli čas, který můžete trávit nejenom svojí prací, ale také tím, co děláte. proto alexi a vy další, kteří jste se podíleli na této zprávě, jsem rád za tu vyváženost a za absolutně jasný message z evropského parlamentu. evropský parlament je na straně lidí a na straně toho, aby měli osobní život.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, i think we all know that feeling. you come home from a long day at work, you're cooking, and the phone keeps ringing. the boss, can you just... for more and more people, work and life are becoming more and more intertwined. stress, depression, and burnout increase when you're constantly on. it can make you sick. even if you are not so sure about your contract, for example because you have a temporary contract or because a reorganisation has been announced at your company, you should have the right to say 'nothing for now'. for all workers in europe, i advocate the right to be unreachable. commissioner, come up with a directive as soon as possible, preferably today rather than tomorrow. i think that our rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have put forward a wonderful proposal which absolutely deserves the support of parliament.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, frankly speaking, all the smart things have already been said, and that’s why i thought that i have to share a piece of personal experience. like, i believe, many of us, i was raised in a working environment where you had to work 24/7 just to build up your career. in the very beginning, after my country gained independence, i was a single mother of three. it was non—stop. and that was exactly what i wanted to see from my own people whom i was working with. i have to say that, working on this report i felt ashamed sometimes. i believe that my accredited parliamentary assistants are particularly grateful to the rapporteur and for the fact that we raised this topic. due to these technical means, we are now used to calling and writing to people at any time and then waiting for them to react. this is not normal. we all know, theoretically, that we have a working time directive. we know how many hours we are supposed to work and how many hours we are supposed to rest, but do we really act accordingly? sometimes not, let’s be honest. i believe that we have to deal with this problem, not only at legislative and european level, but also here in this house and everywhere. i’m very glad that we are on the same page as the commission and the house. i believe that we are able to solve this problem and to give people the opportunity to work, especially during a pandemic, and to have a proper work-life balance.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the boundary between work and private life is becoming increasingly blurred, but greater autonomy and flexibility should not be synonymous with continuous availability. people are not machines. we need to be able to recharge our batteries by taking time away from our work, because being permanently accessible leads to stress and burnout. i call on the commission to come forward with a legislative initiative as soon as possible, because all european workers deserve the right to be unreachable. especially in times of covid-19 and homework, this is especially relevant. but it is also important for employers. without healthy workers, the business cannot continue. a special mention for women: they often take on more care tasks but also have to remain in constant contact with their employer, which puts them at greater health risk and puts additional pressure on their well-being. fellas, if your living room becomes your office, where do you draw the line? let's do this together.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report has been the subject of a very hard fight, and i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work, but above all for their willingness to compromise. i think it is simply a very, very important signal, also from this parliament. this is a subject that has affected millions of europeans even before corona. that we as a parliament should be able to deliver a report which is not decided by huge, contentious majorities but which can be supported by a large majority in this house. i think that does the importance of this subject justice. i too - and i say this as someone who has worked for many years in a large trade union - think it is important that we as politicians do not claim that we can regulate and control everything centrally and immediately, that we have a life-like answer to these complex questions, but that we now say: we now understand that those who are closest to the train are the ones who are on the train, and these are the social partners. you have three years to come up with something concrete and present it to us, and if you can't do that, we'll do it. but now that you are on board, i think that is a very, very important signal, and it is also a sign of confidence in the urgently needed strengthening of the social partnership. i therefore thank you very much and ask for your approval of this report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that the right to disconnect applies to all workers and not just to those who are working remotely. and while there are many benefits to digitalisation in an employee's life, studies show that hyperconnectivity can lead to undesirable effects on work-life balance or well-being at work. we cannot accept that more and more workers are seeing their working hours increase without any additional income or compensatory rest. as a socialist, i welcome this report, which calls for the involvement of the social partners in the coming legislative process, but above all sets out the guidelines for the creation of such a right in europe, through a clear definition of the right to disconnect, the information of workers on their right to disconnect, the setting of new working conditions for online employment and the protection of workers against the risk of retaliation in the event of unavailability outside working hours. yes, european workers need the right to disconnect. let's make it happen!
mr president, telecommuting is a new way of working that is of interest to many employees but it can be felt as an unbearable constraint when it is imposed by a company, whether in normal times or during exceptional circumstances, such as the coronavirus pandemic. it is therefore useful to recognise the right of employees to disconnect, i.e. the right to take full advantage of their rest and leave without being disturbed by their employer. this is what the french law of 8 august 2016 did, this law recognizes this right to disconnect and wisely refers to the social dialogue to specify the modalities. this french example should inspire all the member states of the european union, because the union must not be content with being the europe of business, it must also have a social dimension. however, it is necessary to avoid imposing an unreasonable administrative burden on companies. furthermore, i consider that the creation of this new right of disconnection is a matter for the states and not for the union. for these two reasons, i am opposed to the adoption of a directive on this matter. let's trust the states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. during the coronavirus pandemic, many people are feeling the pressure to be available in their free time. we therefore propose to protect the right to take time off for all those who do not have a fixed working time. it is absolutely essential to me that the social partners draw up the agreement, and that does not have to be difficult. it is primarily a question of expectation voting. an agreement at a workplace for when and how to use e-mail and telephone. but not one so inflexible that you're not allowed to help if the whole thing goes up in flames. this is a small part of the road. there is still a long way to go if we are to help the many millions who suffer from stress. it is therefore essential that we have an ambitious strategy with a primary focus on health and safety at work. we must focus on this preventive action so that europe's workers can see that the work tasks are in line with working time and their skills, and that managers are better trained. there's no time to waste. let's get to it.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to your speeches and i have not heard anyone who is opposed to this right to disconnect. why would you do that? because it's just common sense. as i have said and as others have also said, we cannot expect a person, however efficient, to be available at all times. you can demand it for a while, but if you go beyond that, well, there'll be a return. the return is occupational illness, stress, burnout. diseases that are often of our time and diseases that have terrible consequences for people, but also have considerable financial consequences for all our welfare systems. let me just make a quick reminder. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the working time is not reduced to eight hours a day. it was a huge achievement, claimed all over europe, and not just in europe, for that matter, at the time. some thought it was the end of the economy, the crisis, the end of productivity. well, technology at the time taught us that it wasn't. and by the way, ilo convention no. 1, which was created at the same time in 1919, was about the 8-hour workday. i think that today we are in a different situation, but we are also in a technological revolution, we are in a revolution in the world of work. and so we have to measure this upheaval and its impact on people, on human work. this parliament, together with the previous commission, adopted an important directive on work-life balance. we cannot on the one hand advocate this balance and on the other hand open the door to all excesses. and who, logically, reasonably, could defend such excesses. yes, it is true that there cannot be a one-size-fits-all solution for all types of enterprises. this is why the social partners have a fundamental role to play. but i would also say that, while i am pleased that a number of member states have already, as has been mentioned, incorporated this right to disconnect into their legislation, which must be declined by the social partners depending on the company, as a european i have some difficulty accepting that this right is available to some nationals, to some workers in some countries but not to all europeans. this is not the european social model! and so the framework for pushing for recognition of this right must be created. i hope that the social partners will succeed.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, 20 january 2021. the final vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. during the epidemic, as many as one third of all workers in the european union are working from home. it has its advantages, but it also has its disadvantages. the advantage is certainly less chance of spreading the coronavirus infection, and the downside is the feeling that the worker must be available at all times. working from home blurs the line between work and leisure. this is why the european parliament (on the initiative of s&d mep alex agius salibey) is advocating for the so-called right to disconnect, which means the right or the possibility for a worker to turn off his phone and e-mail after working hours, without fear of negative consequences. in the report, we call on the commission to make this right available to all workers in the eu. this will greatly reduce the pressure and increase the concern for the mental health of employees who have been facing an unpredictable situation and adapting to a new way of working for almost a year. this measure will also provide relief to many slovenians who are working remotely during the epidemic.
in writing. in times of social distancing and exit restrictions, work-life balance is very important and the right to check-out should be a right that is an integral part of work organisation in the new digital age. the measures taken in response to the covid-19 crisis have changed the way people work, demonstrating the importance of digital solutions. while working from home meant keeping a lot of jobs, 27% of those working from home reported doing work in their spare time. the spread of teleworking has put an even greater burden on young people and on those who have caring responsibilities, such as single parents, families with children or families caring for relatives. constant online contact, combined with a high volume of work tasks and the increasing expectation that employees are available at all times, can negatively affect the work-life balance, as well as their physical and mental health and well-being, and can lead to increased stress and burnout. the right to opt-out allows workers to refrain from work-related electronic communications, telephone calls and e-mails during rest periods or during leave without facing any disadvantages. respect for working time and its predictability are essential to ensure the health and safety of workers and their families in the union.
in writing. in order to adapt workers' rights to the changes brought about by homework, the european left has called for and initiated a european parliament report on the right to disconnect. the report is based on the impact of ict on working conditions faced by the majority of europeans forced by the covid-19 crisis to switch to a telework system. however, in addition to the positive aspects generated by this new system, such as the protection of jobs during the pandemic or greater flexibility in the management of the time, place and manner in which work is carried out, new challenges have emerged that present higher risks for workers and require coordination at the supranational level of the member states. according to eurofound, 27% of europeans who have worked from home say they have had to work in their spare time to fulfil their professional tasks. our proposal therefore addresses the right of this category of workers to disconnect and is based on recent studies that show us the importance of work-life balance on workers' physical and mental health, while protecting the flexibility so necessary for many workers today.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the council on the revision of the eu list of tax havens by irene tinagli and paul tang, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000081/2020 b9-0001/21) (2020/2863(rsp)) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the revision of the eu list of tax havens by irene tinagli and paul tang, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000082/2020 b9-0002/21) (2020/2863(rsp)).
author. – mr president, let me mark this moment because it’s the first time — and i say this with pleasure and even pride —that the subcommittee on tax matters (fisc) is participating in the plenary debate of the european parliament. i am convinced that fisc will manage to build broad majorities inside and outside this house, because what i have seen from discussions with the different political groups is that we have at least one notion of fairness in common — that is that everyone has to pay taxes. that is the rule, and there are no exceptions to the rule. not for billionaires, not for big polluters and not for big corporates. this brings me to the blacklist of tax havens: the list of non—cooperative jurisdictions. it was long a deep wish of the european parliament to have this list. indeed, in 2017 we got our way when it was established for the first time. it was and is a good idea to name, to shame and, above all, to change. change because being on the list should have, and must have, real consequences — both for the countries on the list and for the businesses that operate from those countries. but the member states that ultimately decide on the list have forgotten just one thing: to include actual tax havens. the tax justice network has shown that the countries included on the list are responsible for only 2% of global tax avoidance. by comparison, the netherlands alone — the country where i come from — is responsible for 8.5%, and the number one offender is the cayman islands, responsible for 16.5%. the list does not work yet. and the nasty truth is that it’s not getting better; it’s getting worse. the virgin islands, bermuda, jersey. these are some of the world’s most renowned tax havens and they have been removed from the list. commissioner and minister, imagine the shock i and others in the house felt when we learned that the cayman islands, the number one tax haven in the world, had been removed as well. with the member states failing to live up to their duty, it is for the parliament to step up and tell it like it is. this list is confusing and ineffective. you have got to fix this. give the list teeth with strict criteria and make it bite with defensive measures. no countries without a corporate tax system or with low effective corporate tax rates should go free. europe is suffering from member states’ failure to live up to their duty. our citizens are losing eur 140 billion each year from corporate income tax losses. this is money that could have been spent on housing, on health, on care or, if you wish, on income taxes. our citizens want something different. they expect something different. 86% of them say that they want the eu to fight tax avoidance and tax evasion. go fix it! there is a democratic deficit. the citizen expects, yet the politicians do not deliver. a democratic deficit is not just that, but also the lack of transparency, because the discussions on taxation take place in the back rooms, although scrutiny and accountability are part and parcel of our democracy. taxation seems to be a debate for technocrats alone at this stage, and this should be changed. what you see in the resolution is that it calls for democratic standards to be obeyed. more specifically, it calls on the council to disclose the participating members, the topics of discussion, the technical assessments, the summaries, the minutes and the conclusions of these meetings. it also calls on the chair of the code of conduct group to visit the fisc committee regularly. it is part and parcel of our democratic process; scrutiny and accountability are part of that. the resolution also calls for us to look in the mirror, because to fight tax avoidance through non-eu tax havens adds up to hypocrisy if we don’t look in the mirror. when we do, we will find that it’s not a pretty sight. the netherlands, which i already mentioned, together with luxembourg, ireland, hungary and other eu states are responsible for one third of global tax avoidance. this is why in the resolution parliament commits itself to examine each and every policy [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, i’ve listened carefully to the honourable mr tang. thank you for bringing this question to the plenary, as it is an important issue. the eu and its member states are committed to strengthening good tax governance, fair taxation, global tax transparency and the fight against tax fraud and evasion, both at eu level and globally. the ecofin council produced a set of conclusions on 27 november 2020 on fair and effective taxation. this provided political guidance on further work on a modern eu tax environment. these conclusions also express the council’s views on the commission tax action plan, issued in july 2020, on good tax governance in the eu and beyond. the council reiterated the importance of supporting the principles of good tax governance through the continuation of the successful work undertaken so far in the context of the code of conduct group, including the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes, which should be further pursued and enhanced where necessary. the council therefore requested that the code of conduct group continue its work. it also stressed the importance of fair treatment within the eu with respect to third countries and jurisdictions, while maintaining a continuous dialogue with third countries as well as with the oecd. the code of conduct group will also pursue its discussions on ways and means to further improve the work on the code. this should take into account the successful lessons from other experience gained so far. the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes was revised most recently in october 2020 following an in-depth review of the implementation of the commitments made by third countries’ jurisdictions that are part of the process. the next revision of the eu list, which is scheduled for february at the ecofin council, is prepared by the code of conduct group. as regards defensive measures towards non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes, member states and the council adhere to a number of guiding principles. the defensive measures can have considerable consequences for the listed jurisdictions. the following aspects can be mentioned in this context. first, the key objective of the list is to ensure change, as mr tang said, and not punish the listed jurisdiction. being listed entails reputational damage and we see that this aspect tangibly contributes to the efficiency of the eu list. more and more jurisdictions change their practice and adopt tax good governance; standards that are also applicable between the eu member states. so, on the second aspect, a number of eu-level defensive measures are being applied vis-à-vis the listed jurisdictions, and these can have financial consequences. the work in this area is also continuing with the assistance of the commission. and third, member states are also free to apply national lists or defensive measures that go beyond what is agreed at the eu level or in the intergovernmental context of the code of conduct group. finally, it is important to recall that the measures agreed in 2017 in the council were reviewed in 2019 in the code of conduct group, and member states agreed to continue this work during this year. this reflects the fact that member states have different legal systems, different laws and it takes time to design new measures. work on defensive measures will not stop. coordination will continue, and it’s likely to increase in the near future. should the commission choose to table a legislative proposal in this area, it will of course be examined by the council in accordance with the treaty requirements and taking into account the limits of the eu’s competence in these matters.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all let me thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and subcommittee on tax matters (fisc), and the rapporteur, mr tang, for putting the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance at the forefront of the agenda. the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions will continue to play an important role in the years to come. and, i think, especially at this moment in time, in order to help overcome the economic and social crisis also caused by the pandemic, we have to strengthen these tools. the commission announced a commitment to work to strengthen these tools in july 2020, and this commitment will continue. of course, there is a need to improve tax good governance, not only globally, but also within the eu. member states are subject to reviews under various tools, and these tools include the code of conduct for business taxation, whose reform is an absolute priority, and infringement procedures in the areas directly covered by eu law. i count on the european parliament to continue pushing for an ambitious agenda. i am glad to hear the council’s commitment in this direction. the commission actively engaged with member states in the different council groups to discuss the follow-up to the communication on tax good governance in europe and beyond. as a result, the council adopted conclusions, as it was reminded, which take note of the communication and reiterate the importance of the principles of tax good governance and the need to enhance the eu listing process. this is an important step as it recognises that more work is needed. i have in mind, in particular, the revision of the code of conduct for business taxation. any change in this respect will have a major impact on the eu listing process. the progress on the discussions of minimally effective taxation in the context of pillar two of the oecd’s report are accordingly crucial for the code and, consequently, also for the eu listing process, and will have an effect on our fair taxation criterion, including zero-tax jurisdictions. the eu listing also requires improved administrative cooperation, in particular through the exchange of tax information. this is why the commission will continue to work on extending the eu list criteria to cover effective exchanges of information under the common reporting standard, country-by-country reporting between tax authorities and beneficial ownership information. i believe that it is also necessary that we focus on the right jurisdictions, and consider whether any relevant jurisdiction is missing from our radar. this is the reason why the commission is working on a revision of the scoreboard, and uses enhanced selection criteria for identifying jurisdictions and prioritising their screening under the eu listing process. the commission is also looking forward to assessing the actions undertaken by member states towards enacting domestic defensive measures vis-à-vis listed jurisdictions. i reiterate on this occasion that we are ready to take any necessary initiatives in case the results are not in line with our expectations, including by way of legislative proposal. finally, i believe that the council should report regularly to the parliament regarding its work on non-cooperative jurisdictions. this would improve the mutual understanding of the process and would help to focus on improving the eu listing process.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, thank you for your words. the european list of tax havens was, of course, a first step in 2017. and many of us here regret that its potential is not being exploited, as you also mentioned. the territories mentioned in the list account for less than 2% of the global tax revenue loss, which of course raises questions about the effectiveness of the list. this list must therefore be reformed to provide the european union with a genuine legal instrument, one which is coercive. this will require a strengthening of the criteria and a hardening and better coordination of the sanctions. finally, if europe is to be legitimate at international level in the fight against tax evasion and harmful tax practices, it must of course set an example and we therefore call for consistency between the criteria governing inclusion on the list and the criteria relating to harmful tax practices within the european union. mr commissioner, madam secretary of state, we in parliament will be watching for you to take action and thank you for your encouraging words in this regard. you know that parliament is a demanding and vigilant interlocutor, but it also knows when action is needed and we will stand by you if the reform meets our expectations.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today i would like to propose that we play a very instructive little game of the seven mistakes. this is the oxfam ngo's ranking of the world's worst tax havens for multinationals, and i suggest you quite simply compare it to the european list of tax havens. firstly, bermuda, which is not listed by the european union, secondly, the netherlands, switzerland, the cayman islands, singapore, ireland and luxembourg. well, i'll stop there because i could have gone to the end of the list with the same result: none of the most notorious tax havens is listed by the european union. so what's left of your european tax haven list is a blank check on tax evasion. we are told that the coffers will be empty to help people who are struggling, so start by calling out a cat by a cat, by really naming the tax havens, including within the european union, and let's get the money where it is: in the pockets of tax evaders.
for the greens/efa group madam president, 2020 has been a profound year for croatia. a first earthquake in march of extreme violence, the covid crisis, a second earthquake in december. the croats are showing great courage, mutual help and solidarity. many people mobilized to save lives as temperatures neared freezing. this solidarity must continue at european level. we must help them rebuild their homes and their communities so that they can live in dignity and safety. the european union has allocated €683 million from the solidarity fund to help with reconstruction efforts and to help croatia cope with the devastating effects of the earthquake. in the resolution to be voted on today, we call for sustainable, resilient and earthquake-resistant reconstruction and for financial aid to be distributed swiftly to enable croatia to recover quickly. it is not normal that houses rebuilt in the 1990s after the war did not have better earthquake resistance. the croatian authorities are to investigate possible irregularities during the reconstruction. today we have yet another important proof of what european union solidarity really means as a common european project.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, your strategy for gender equality is more akin to a desire for 'indifference' than to the search for legitimate equality between the two sexes. you think that all the differences between men and women are stereotypes that need to be corrected. your ideology is even becoming authoritarian. nations or ngos that do not share your goals or your theories of gender or intersectionality are denounced. you're even talking about imposing quotas. a policy that is contrary to the values of equality and meritocracy and undermines the legitimacy of those it claims to promote. in view of your vision, the id group proposes an alternative text. we renew our commitment to equality between men and women, to their differences and to their complementarity. we recall what the european union's priorities should be in terms of women's rights: the fight against domestic violence, harassment and also the crime they suffer, the fight against the various forms of human trafficking of which they are the first victims and which the european policy of passive borders promotes, the achievement everywhere of equal pay for equal work and equal skills. finally, the demographic situation in europe is at a dramatically low level. member states should encourage births by, inter alia, giving a financial boost to the time mothers choose to spend on their children's education. we don't want to force our daughters to become men like everyone else. our aim is to guarantee the safety of european women, but also the freedom to choose their way of life according to their aspirations, which are sometimes different from those of men, but which are always legitimate.
madam president, commissioner, we are talking about digitalisation, teleworking, the ecological transition and mobility. the coronavirus crisis is causing accelerated socioeconomic and cultural changes and we are forced to adapt. will the same be true for equality between women and men? that is the question, because i see men every day who think, men who propose, men who decide. my fear is that we are rebuilding our societies in the same old way, with the same old patterns. the world needs a feminist economic recovery plan, with women thinking, with women proposing and with more women leading. we are demanding legal guarantees, levers, sanctions or rewards. it is necessary to achieve equality. my dear colleagues, we have a world to reinvent. this time we must be and we will be the protagonists.
madam president, these inequalities between men and women we bear in everyday life, these inequalities that have shaped our societies, could be even worse in the digital space. algorithms have been overwhelmingly designed by white men. amazon has discovered that one of the algorithms they were using to hire staff was simply penalising all female candidates. facial recognition systems are dramatically and dangerously discriminatory because they are built out of data from white men’s faces. so if you present these tools with non—white or female features they will simply get all confused and will mistake one woman for another. neutrality of technology is a sad fairy tale, a nasty one, and if we do decide to stay ignorant to these biases, the digital world will simply reproduce and amplify all the discrimination, injustices and sadness we are fighting against elsewhere. so we need public policies to prevent this from happening.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have a huge responsibility towards future generations, towards future girls and women. this crisis gives us an opportunity to redress the social, economic and structural gaps we have been carrying for so long, to strengthen europe and finally put an end to all those discriminations which are unacceptable, which undermine the rule of law and the union's founding values. i would like to say to some of the colleagues who spoke this morning: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we therefore urgently need concrete and binding measures, commissioner. we already know these measures: the commissioner also stressed that the eu's role in the fight against gender-based violence was to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from discrimination and that the eu's role in combating gender-based violence is to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from discrimination. we can't afford any more delays.
madam president, commissioner dalli, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that a european union strategy for equality between women and men is finally being developed. this strategy must be able to be measured in concrete terms by strengthening european standards for non-financial information. now, let's talk about timing and priorities, especially since covid-19 has hit women particularly hard: 70% of health and social services staff worldwide are women and we have sadly seen the increase in domestic violence. we are still waiting for the commission's proposal on binding measures on pay transparency. it was due to be presented before the end of 2020 and today it is not on the agenda of the commission's college for the next two months, even though there is still a 16% difference in average hourly earnings between women and men in europe. it should be noted that some member states are already showing us the way. france, in particular, with the occupational equality index, but also germany, finland and others. the union must further advance women's economic empowerment and women's rights, including, of course, the unblocking of the women on boards directive and the creation of a gender equality council.
author. madam president, in a few weeks, we have learned a lot about china. we have learned that the chinese communist party is afraid of freedom, even in a small territory of 7 million people, hong kong. the chinese government prefers freedom of repression to freedom of speech. we have learned that china is not respecting its international commitments on hong kong, made in the joint declaration with the united kingdom. we've heard that the chinese communist party is afraid of transparency. how much time and how much difficult negotiation did it take for who to finally send a mission to wuhan to investigate the origins of the covid-19 pandemic, whose global scale and disastrous consequences justify all the light being shed wherever it is needed? we have finally learned that china is denying the obvious, the terrible fate of the uighur people. we have learned all this, and it is certainly possible, at the very moment when china is concluding an investment agreement with the european union. this agreement raises doubts in many of us, because what we have learned we cannot ignore, because in this agreement there is a text we are still waiting for, but there is also a context. and in this parliament, there is a democracy, european democracy, which speaks and will say what it has to say.
madam president, let's call a spade a spade. in discussing political repression in hong kong this morning, we are talking about a rising power that relies on the "one country, two systems" agreement, holds a million uyghurs in forced labor camps, threatens taiwan, projects itself into the south china sea and shamelessly claims that dictatorship is preferable to freedom. the xi regime is a challenge to democracy like no other, and that is why we have to deal with the investment agreement. we will debate for months its economic clauses and its very principle, but it is our political duty as parliamentarians to tell mr xi right now that we cannot ratify this agreement under any circumstances until his regime has ratified the international conventions against forced labour. this is a sine qua non condition on which we can agree in no time. so, my dear colleagues, let's do it! that clear message, let's deliver it now!
mr president, turkey has suddenly become a place to visit again. we knew this would happen, as chancellor merkel's germany has always caved to erdogan's pressure. last monday, the german foreign minister was visiting turkey. at the end of december, it was the same heiko maas who refused greece's legitimate request to impose an embargo on arms trade with turkey. it is the same one that sent greece and turkey back-to-back in the escalation of tensions in the mediterranean last summer, on the occasion of yet another visit to ankara. it was again mrs merkel who received praise from the turkish foreign minister at the nato meeting in december. mrs merkel's presidency of the european union was therefore a diplomatic victory for erdogan's turkey, and we will not forget this by pretending today to defend a few unjustly persecuted opponents. meanwhile, turkey continues to persecute its opponents and religious minorities, i am thinking for example of the murder of christian couple simoni and hurmuz diril in january 2020. turkey is doing nothing to solve this murder. political islamism, persecution of christian minorities, blackmail of migrants, turkey is a danger to europe. we shall abstain on this resolution. it must not hide the fact that the german presidency of the union has made us capitulate to erdoğan.
for the greens/efa group madam president, we fully support the european central bank in its determination to ensure the viability of the euro at all costs. i would like to ask you, however, about two blind spots in his monetary policy, which your predecessor, mario draghi, regularly touched on. first, of course, there are the environmental challenges, especially climate change. your statements mark a new approach in this respect and we encourage you to move from intentions to action - god knows if there is urgency. but my second point is about inequalities: the ecb's policy has an impact on them. by pouring trillions of euros into the financial sector, it helped to artificially inflate stock market prices and property prices. the beneficiaries are the owners of capital, a rather male, white and elderly minority of the population, a minority that has become enormously rich in the last 30 years as a result of globalisation, technological developments and the advent of companies too big to fail and, let us not forget, tax fraud and evasion, as we were reminded by the revelations this morning about luxembourg. the young and the low-income suffer from austerity in the face of a closed horizon. although interest rates have fallen, they are now forced to borrow twice as much and for longer if they want to get a house. mrs lagarde, there is no one way to conduct an ambitious monetary policy. the european central bank must therefore not only avoid making its choices exacerbate the social divide, but above all it must play its part in reducing it by limiting the capacity of finance to extract an increasingly indecent rent from society. madam president, our ecological impact on the one hand and the precariousness and exclusion on the other are two time bombs whose explosion would be fatal to our societies. while it is high time that elected officials took up their responsibilities, the central bank cannot shirk its responsibilities. we're counting on you.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank ms lagarde and mr dombrovskis for being here. in the context of the report we are discussing today, i would like to make four remarks and, of course, ask them some related questions. first of all, i think it’s more than fair to say that, given the circumstances that have fallen upon us, we are still in a very unusual situation with respect to the stance of monetary policy, with huge balance sheets increasing further by the day and negative nominal policy rates. a return to a more normal policy stance is, of course, not for tomorrow, not for next week, and probably not for next month either, but i think it would be good to be more explicit about the signposts that the path to normality will be. secondly, we see today unmistakeable signs of major bubbles in equity markets and other financial markets, all more or less linked to what i would call the overabundance of liquidity. these bubbles are a constant threat to financial stability, and by now we all know that financial stability is, of course, closely linked to price stability: the major objective of monetary policy in the euro area. i think it’s time to rethink the stance of monetary policy by taking these elements – bubbles, financial stability dangers – more explicitly into consideration. thirdly, thomas piketty and 150 other economists have called, very recently, for the cancellation of government debt by the ecb. i would be inclined to ask whether you share that opinion, but i think that is a superfluous question. but do you think the ecb statutes allow for such an action? fourthly, when a government crisis looms in a highly indebted country within the euro area, it always tends to make financial markets more nervous overnight, which – overnight – also tends to lead to increasing spreads. my question is: does the ecb consequently stand ready to intervene in such circumstances in order to keep these spreads down?
on behalf of the left group. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european central bank's emergency asset purchase programme is a good one. but the intensity of the crisis, the duration of the pandemic, the size of the recession and the large increase in public debt, reaching over 100% of european gdp in the euro area, show in numbers that these steps are insufficient. we need more measures. mrs lagarde, you must do everything in cooperation with the commission to prevent the eurozone from sinking into a debt crisis and the european economy from experiencing a major existential crisis. so you have to think, as you said, mrs lagarde, last march, out of the box and not on the basis of business as usual. the european union has a long-term strategy to reduce the number of people living in poverty, and the european union has a long-term strategy to reduce poverty. it was proposed by 100 economists with very big names. why were you so quick to dismiss it as unthinkable? we must also suspend the stability pact until 2023 and make a more realistic sustainable development pact. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's structural funds is a very good one.
mr. speaker, the covid crisis has made one thing clear: we can't do that without good risk management. risk management allows us to anticipate the future. integral risk management helps us to be prepared. in 1995, we were warned that the risk of a pandemic was significantly increased by globalization, urbanization and exploitation of the natural environment. in 2003, the institute of medicine issued an additional warning. the question was no longer whether a pandemic would come, but when. in 2017, the world bank warned again. but the ecb's 2019 annual report does not contain any information on the risk of a pandemic. the total level of risk was even estimated to be lower than in 2018. as europe's most prominent financial institution, the ecb should be able to identify and model the key risks. looking at the situation we're in right now, i'm wondering: how well does the ecb manage its risk? or is it time for a thorough review?
mr president, mr vice-president, madam president of the ecb, you said in your opening remarks that inflation was still too low in the euro area, and that phrase was used by the spokesman for the group of the european people's party, mr markus ferber, to ask you to stop insisting on compliance with the treaties. i told him that, since his efforts up to now had not been positive, had not been fruitful, he should throw in the towel, not comply with the european treaties, not comply with the regulations by which he is governed. and the answer of the socialist group can only be to ask it to do more and to help it and encourage it to do a little more in monetary policy and to get inflation to the target. the people's group member also said that demographic changes, globalisation or technological changes were causing the natural interest rate to fall and that, therefore, the strategic review of his mandate should perhaps review the inflation target. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last gave a clear signal to the european parliament that the european union is ready to take action to combat the spread of the virus.
mr president, mrs lagarde, thank you for this presentation. we are pleased to note that the central bank has wanted to play its part in supporting economies hard hit by the covid-19 crisis and the union's inability to close its borders. but your state of affairs leads me to ask you three questions. you have mentioned your 2% inflation target. we see the gap that has been widening for so many years between consumer prices, wages and the price of financial assets, such as stocks, and that of real estate. is it not appropriate to revise the basis for calculating inflation to include elements of asset prices? you also indicated your choice to commit the ecb to integrating ecological criteria, including the fight against climate change, into its operations. such criteria would place the ecb in a new dependence on non-state organisations which have taken over the ecology issue. we fear for the selfemployed and smes, but also for the banks, the effects of an arbitrary and totalitarian taxonomy. are your choices not leading the ecb out of its mission and into a new dependence? finally, you brought up the subject of digital currency. we've all seen the tremendous acceleration in the movement of cryptocurrencies over the last few months. for example, the chinese binance platform now processes a transaction volume greater than any euronext and is worth more than all french banks combined. should we not move slowly to offer europeans a credible and stable system when the digital landscape has become clearer?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs lagarde, thank you for coming back to discuss this with us, as you do every year. we have again managed to make it clear in this report that the ecb, within the framework of its mandate, should do what it can to take climate risks into account in its operations. so far, you haven't done that with your major refinancing operations, which are hundreds of billions of dollars. the big ratings agencies that you rely on to do that, they continue to give very good ratings to companies that are bad for the climate -- chevron, shell, exxon, total -- and based on that, banks can get fresh money from you. therefore, our request is very clear: stop relying unilaterally on this oligopoly and its ignorance of climate protection, and ensure that long-term climate risks are fully taken into account in your refinancing operations, as well as in banking supervision.
president, mrs lagarde, your mandate is price stability, but you are stretching it further and further. you also see climate as part of your mandate, see the green bonds. corona also: you responded with a huge buy-out program called pepp, a real "spice". but where does that go? meanwhile, the ecb's balance sheet has swelled to 70% of euro area gdp as a result of its purchasing policy. in america, it is 35%. in japan, it is 130%. a high-debt economy that is only stagnating: would you like to go that way? i think your real motive is: the european council in brussels in december last year called for the creation of a european monetary system. but you'll be paying the bill to savers and pensioners, like in the netherlands. they're being milked. they feel themselves victims of the greed elsewhere in europe, where debt relief is already being discussed. the problem of the euro system, mrs lagarde, is - and i am sorry to say this - the euro itself. that is the tragedy we are living with in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president lagarde, 2021 will surely be remembered as the year when the ecb decided to be, fully and truly, a central bank. we have the lowest rates in history, banks can rely on negative-rate lending to increase lending to businesses and households, while asset purchases of €1.85 trillion have been effective in offsetting the negative effects of the pandemic. now it's time to move on. 2021 is the year of the long-awaited redefinition of the ecb's monetary policy strategy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. these are the big challenges that we need to address. but we cannot do all this by ignoring the elephant in the room, the enormous debt incurred by all the member countries to meet the demands of the pandemic crisis. i have already humbly proposed this and it has been authoritatively reiterated by over 100 eminent european economists in a letter: we are cancelling the public debt held by the ecb and thus providing the european states with the means to rebuild their economies in a sustainable and inclusive way. if not now, when?
mr president, the ecb undertook rapid and major efforts to dampen the disastrous effects of the pandemic on our economy. what we see now is that the ecb was partially successful and, that said, we are all aware of the impact that monetary policy has on our economic system. i would like to draw attention to the fact that monetary policy itself is not neutral towards specific issues. especially one: gender equality. now is exactly the time to ensure that women are supported extensively, as they are disproportionately more affected by the crisis than men. that is why more diversity is essential on the executive floor. we need more women on the ecb’s executive board. having people from different backgrounds leads to a more creative and better way of tackling problems, benefitting our society as a whole. i am convinced that a gender-balanced board must be possible in the 21st century.
mr president, thank you very much, president lagarde, for referring to the ecb strategy review and also by including climate change in that. but i would like to pick up where you said that you are going to look at sustainability considerations, how they can also be reflected in the monetary policy instruments, as you said, and i would like to pick on that a bit, because i would almost say: what is still the discussion? first of all, some people say: well, the ecb needs to be market neutral. but i can’t find that anywhere in the treaties, so market neutrality should not and could not be an argument. price stability is. and as we see more and more studies, climate change is affecting price stability, so you need to do something about price stability. furthermore, by continuing the current asset purchasing programmes, you are supporting the past – the fossil past – and you’re going against climate neutrality, which has a very clear democratic mandate that we have to work towards. so my question is very simple: are you going to stop buying bonds that perpetuate carbon-intense economic activities? and are you going to embrace proposals for green tltros, because that is actually required to really have a green agenda.
mr president, mr vice-president, mrs lagarde, ladies and gentlemen, the ecb holds almost eur 3.8 trillion in assets from the various debt buy-back programmes which are powerful props to the carbon economy. of the €242 billion of private assets held by the ecb, 63% are brown, while the supported sectors account for only 10% of jobs and 20% of activity in europe. mrs lagarde, monetary policy and the assets held by the ecb have a huge impact on the daily lives of citizens. to meet the challenges of the moment, your action should ultimately promote more european jobs and less carbon. whole sectors of the real economy are waiting for this to be achieved in order to try and build the european union of tomorrow: more territorialised, more just, more ecological. you recently announced the creation of a centre of expertise on climate change within your institution. i hope this is the opportunity to finally act. the question is therefore, to paraphrase your conversation yesterday, when will you finally bring your role into line with the eu's climate roadmap? that's the big issue today.
mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear about this. if your proposals are welcomed, they are still insufficient because they do not change the logic. the ecological, social and economic crises are intertwined. this is a systemic crisis we are experiencing. we must learn from it rather than perpetuate the logic that brought us to the wall. part of the public debt should be cancelled in favour of financing the ecological transition. but you are sweeping aside this proposal which would allow for the mobilisation of up to €2.5 trillion on the grounds that it would be illegal, which is not stated in the treaties. in the name of market neutrality, you continue to finance climate-destroying activities, including fossil fuels, through your purchasing programmes. this has to stop. every euro spent in this way is a fatal euro. let us be bold and integrate climate protection into the ecb's mandate. this is an urgent need to protect the banks themselves from the prudential and therefore social risks posed by climate change. if you don't take care of the climate, the climate will catch up with you. carbon neutrality must now guide all your actions.
madam president, commissioner, the transition to the circular economy has the potential to create between 1.2 and 3 million new jobs by 2030! the list of actors involved is very long. for the circular economy to work, it needs a market. this market is the market for recycled raw materials. more specifically, it is to allow a plastic bottle manufacturer to use recycled plastic instead of plastic directly from oil. the reality is that there is currently not enough demand on the market for secondary raw materials produced from waste. it is therefore up to us to develop this by stimulating demand. first, by introducing mandatory recycled content in certain products. this will automatically create an increase in demand and thus opportunities for recycled raw materials. secondly, by guiding consumers' choices through clear and explicit labels on the design and recyclability of what they buy. in this way, they will change the market. despite the displeasure of some, the market economy can be a great opportunity to make a successful ecological transition.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, today's debate is on the european skills strategy for sustainable competitiveness, social equity and resilience. a very complicated title to talk about education, the training of our young people and the labour market that awaits them. behind these bombastic formulae lies a crude reality that you do not assume, as you usually do: that of an economic crisis that is only in its infancy, with as a corollary endemic unemployment to which uncontrolled immigration is no stranger. according to the latest eurostat report on the european union from november 2020, there are more than 3 million young people under 25 unemployed, an increase of almost 17% in just one year. in parallel with this overwhelming observation, the european commission recently stated that immigration would represent an inexhaustible source of talent. we're stepping on the head! when i see that the ceo of astrazeneca is french, i think that geniuses, in france as in europe, we are full of. but because of a lack of political will and vision, and because of underinvestment in training and scientific research, you have driven them away. so, mr president, commit to training, encouraging and retaining our young people instead of forcing them to choose between unemployment or expatriation, and end your pact on migration, a real danger to our jobs and our civilization.
mr president, commissioner, long before the pandemic, we already knew that skills and learning were key. with the covid-19 crisis, the transformation of the world of work has accelerated exponentially, towards more and more digital uses. our companies therefore need an even more skilled workforce to meet new challenges, in particular to prepare for the emergence of new occupations. in fact, 65% of children entering primary school will be in a profession that does not yet exist. today, 42% of europeans are said to lack basic computer skills. in addition, the current crisis is putting many young people in training - no internships, no mobility, distance learning - at a disadvantage, which will create additional difficulties in integrating them into the world of work. more than ever, links between training and the business world need to be strengthened. in this spirit, learning must be valued as a pathway to excellence for occupational integration and the acquisition of new skills. i therefore welcome the strategy that the european commission wishes to implement, because it will help to meet the challenges that the european union is facing.
mr president, this crisis is yet another proof that knowledge is power. we have failed for years to adapt our education system, our education, our training to the market. we've always been stuck with the old way. this crisis is really showing us, in a very merciless way, that we have done that wrong. i hope that it is still time to introduce continuing training for young and old at european level. right now, we're too dependent on big american tech companies. we're dependent on technology platforms from china. there are hardly any european companies that can compete with them, because we have been standing still for years - in our eyes - from the front. it is time we finally invested a lot, took time and facilitated that our workers in europe can bring our economy back to the level we were used to and that we will see in the future again. because we have the knowledge. knowledge creates power and connects young and old.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would first like to thank honourable members for this very encouraging debate. i would even say that there is a perfect consensus on this issue. we all agree that skills are the future. it’s the future for our societies and the future for our economy. some have referred to the world economic forum and asked for a skills revolution, and indeed we probably need some kind of skills revolution because we have a technical revolution. we need a revolution in our way of producing, due to the need to adapt to climate change. therefore, i think this skills revolution has first to guarantee to everybody, and remember i quoted principle 1 of the social pillar, that everybody has to get equal access to skills, equal access to quality education, and equal access to lifelong learning, the young and adults. this is also something very important for europe’s social model. it’s a basic element of our idea of equal opportunities. yes, we have a revolution in the digital world and we have a lot of vacancies there which are not filled. here it’s a challenge now to train people, to give them the right education and to give them the right skills. sometimes we have to leave the usual models to skill them because technology also gives us the tools to skill people in a different way. we are talking about just transitions. i would say that this means first investing in people, investing in human capital, because our labour markets are changing. it’s true that they are changing and we should now anticipate technological change and prepare every person – every young person – for the changes and give them the opportunity to learn to learn. this is the challenge we all face and now we have the skills agenda and i agree that it’s up to us to implement it. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 10 february 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. in the context of the pandemic, millions of people have lacked access to education or training programmes, and the difficulties in adapting to the new digital context have widened the gap between and within member states. socioeconomic inequalities have made access to education increasingly difficult. the skills agenda for europe must be at the heart of european action so that the right to quality, lifelong training becomes a reality for all citizens, in all areas and sectors. in the context of the fact that 90% of jobs in the future will require digital skills, it is essential that the european institutions and the member states support the acquisition of new skills through european programmes and instruments such as erasmus+, the children and youth guarantee, the digital europe and creative europe programmes. the allocation of a minimum of 20% to digital transition in the recovery and resilience plans becomes essential and those resources need to be accompanied by appropriate measures and additional funds invested structurally by each member state. our investment in the skills of europeans today will dictate europe's competitiveness and economic performance in the future.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr özlem demirel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on reducing inequalities with a special focus on working poverty (2019/2188 (ini)) (a9-0006/2021).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, yes, it is more important than ever to speak about inequalities. so i would like ... – ihnen meinen dank auszusprechen, liebe berichterstatterin, für ihren bericht und auch dem empl-ausschuss und allen schattenberichterstattern. even before the crisis while unemployment was declining, income inequality did not follow the same trends. in the eu, the income of the richest 20% was five times higher than that of the poorest. this afternoon, ms lagarde was here to address this parliament and when she was at the imf she put inequality as a major challenge for our societies. recently she said, and i quote: ‘the bittersweet reality is that despite economic growth, there are still far too many people who are left out.’ yes, the income share of the lower 40% earners has stagnated for many years, even in periods of economic growth. equal access to opportunities remains a challenge, especially for children from disadvantaged backgrounds, and as president von der leyen has put it in her political guidelines, we need equality for all and equality in all of its senses. the main social fallout of the covid-19 crisis is still ahead of us. unemployment can be expected to further increase and poverty and inequality are likely to follow the same path and therefore the crisis response needs to tackle inequality and poverty both in terms of policy and funding, and this has to happen now. in this regard, adequate, sustainable, fair and inclusive social protection systems play a crucial role. they help cushion the impact of a crisis and contribute decisively to the resilience of our societies. reinforced support is needed to address youth unemployment, as the crisis has led to an increase in the rates of young people not in employment, education and training. the crisis has plunged a great number of young people into a really dramatic situation. they are experiencing real poverty and exclusion with a detrimental psychological impact – students who have lost their jobs to pay for their studies, the young who worked in the most impacted sectors like tourism or hospitality. those with precarious jobs were the first to be unemployed. but there are also all the young performers in creative activities – the artists, the musicians, actors – they suffer enormously having no income and often no possibility to pursue their creative activity. we have to show solidarity with these young people if we do not want again a lost generation, or worse, a desperate generation. gender gaps in employment and pay were stagnating before the crisis and are now at risk of widening. yes, women’s over-representation in lower-paid sectors and occupations, the front-line workers, made them particularly vulnerable. closed schools and reduced services did not help balance carrying the responsibility between men and women. as rightly pointed out in the report, in-work poverty strips work of the basic purpose of providing a decent life. in-work poverty was already high on our agenda before the outbreak of the covid-19 crisis. we saw the last recovery did not reach all workers to the same extent. and we are committed to principle 6 of the pillar of social rights, i quote: ‘in-work poverty shall be prevented.’ and this means also that we have to combat precarious work forms. providing jobs that pay an adequate wage is essential to guarantee adequate working and living conditions for workers and their families, reduce wage inequalities and build fair and resilient economies. minimum wages play an important role in this context – adequate minimum wages. still too many workers are not protected by adequate minimum wages in the eu. this also contributes to higher gender pay gaps. our proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages is now in the hands of the co-legislators and we hope for a speedy adoption. inspired by the principles of the european pillar of social rights, our proposal is ambitious and balanced and fully respects the specificities of national systems. we need adequate minimum wages and better coverage by collective agreements. these are the best ways to combat in-work poverty and poverty at large. the fight against inequality and poverty will be an essential part of the action plan to implement the european pillar of social rights. in december, this house adopted a comprehensive resolution on a strong social europe for just transitions. this is an important contribution to the action plan and a successful porto summit. the commission has already presented important initiatives in this context: adequate minimum wages and collective bargaining; the sure instrument; the youth employment support package to prevent another lost generation; skills we just debated; guidelines on seasonal workers – they are not only very much exposed to the pandemic, but they suffer also from bad working and living conditions. the fight against poverty and inequality will take centre stage. the action plan will include proposals which the european parliament has been calling for for years, such as the child guarantee. the council conclusions of 9 september 2020 invited the commission to make a proposal on minimum income, given the number of people without income due to the crisis and it is indeed time to review the council recommendation from 1992. we need common criteria concerning the fight against inequality, because equality cannot be won by action at eu level alone. it requires member states, regions, local authorities, social partners and civil society to actively work on the implementation of the pillar principles including by looking more at the distributional impacts of policies. the next multiannual financial framework and the next generation eu can support the right policies. in the mff, the european social fund+ will be entirely dedicated to employment, education and social measures. the preparation of the national recovery and resilience plans provides member states with ample opportunities to support economic and social upward convergence. it is absolutely true that rising income inequality is the defining challenge of our time, as former president obama put it some years ago. as this crisis has even amplified this challenge, it is urgent to act. talking of competitiveness and growth does not make much sense, as ms lagarde said, for people whose work does not pay, as they do not actually enjoy that prosperity to which they finally contribute. prosperity for all has been a major promise of europe. let’s be up to this promise.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to speak on behalf of the femm committee. i want to point out that the consequences of economic and social inequality were a major concern even before covid-19. women still earn less than men. they have a much higher unpaid household burden. women are at many times greater risk of poverty in old age than men. however, the ongoing covid pandemic has actually made the problem of inequality and poverty even more pressing. while the covid-19 pandemic has indeed affected all sectors without exception, it has probably affected the service sector the most, which has traditionally employed more women and will put even more women at risk of poverty, and their children, as a result of the pandemic. so we have to find a common effort here, to make a common effort to prevent that from happening. women also make up the majority of health and social care workers and it is therefore necessary to direct public investment towards meeting the needs of women working in this field, increasing their wages and ensuring better working conditions.
i thank you for this report, which is an important step forward in the fight against poverty and working poverty. but let's just say one thing at the outset. is working poverty really one of the biggest in europe? is that the biggest problem we're having? let's look at what working-class poverty looked like a hundred years ago and what it looks like today. of course, the european union has a lot of tools to deal with working-class poverty, and it's certainly not quotas that we should be regulating things with. i have personally experienced 42 years of communism in our country. i've experienced a certain part of communism, and communism doesn't create a level playing field. communism distorts the environment and makes the gap between the working people and the non-working people, who are actively controlling the politics, much wider. i would remind you that growth is absolutely essential for the european people's party in the fight against insecurity and poverty. there is a need to promote entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, to contribute to innovation, to create a competitive and sustainable labour market. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal for a skills agenda and firmly believe that the main way we will fight poverty in this building is through education and innovation.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. it is scandalous that a full-time job is no longer enough to pay the rent, to put food on the table and to make sure that the electricity bill can be paid. but for more and more workers in europe, this is the reality. greek employers are making money by sending wages and conditions into a race to the bottom. and the consequence is that millions of people become "working poor". we have to put a stop to this. a concrete tool in the fight against social dumping and poverty is the identity card for posted workers. the card is intended to facilitate the control of social dumping by the authorities and to ensure that everyone is aware of their terms of employment. the results for denmark are good and therefore such an id card can be spread to the benefit of the whole eu. but the id card cannot stand alone in the fight against poverty and social dumping. that is why we must tackle the problems of fake self-employment, zero-hour contracts and false recruitment. and that is why we must strengthen collective agreements and protect the right to organise. and that is why we must introduce a social protocol and stop putting economic freedoms above the conditions of wage-earners. we must also put a strong push for an ambitious strategy for a healthy and safe and secure working environment for all. there is a lot for the workers of europe to do. there are high expectations of us politicians and we should be at the forefront of solving the problems.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the european union thinks it is acting on the facts when it produces reports. nothing is more false, however, than this text on reducing inequalities and the working poor. the majority of this house pretends to forget that the european union is painful structural reforms imposed on the people, it is an almost religious vision of budgetary balance and austerity for all, it is the destruction of the labour code and the flexibility of employment, it is the suppression of social acquis. the management of the 2008 crisis has thrown millions of europeans into poverty because of the catastrophic remedies that the troika has put in place on our continent. today you pretend to have forgotten the social bloodbath by presenting the european union as a social paradise for workers. worse, you think she's the solution, when she's the problem. you use crazy energy to write your dreams while your globalist policies are our nightmare. social dumping, unfair competition, the destruction of our public services, rampant globalisation and mass immigration explain the precariousness and general impoverishment. i refuse to think outside of these realities. you're trying to heal the wound you opened yourself. never before has there been such an urgent need to operate on a patient before he takes his last breath. stop this hypocrisy. let the nations of europe act sovereignly for their peoples.
for the greens/efa group mr president, in 2008, after the global economic and financial crisis, poverty among working people increased in the european union from 8% to 10%. the covid-19 pandemic, a decade later, will have dramatic consequences. we are not talking here about the immense difficulties faced by the unemployed or the elderly with far too modest pensions, but about all those who have jobs but cannot support themselves. atypical and flexible contracts, zero-hour contracts, false selfemployment, temporary work, part-time work not chosen... how can the european union still accept these outrageous schemes which violently jeopardise the lives of all these poor workers? poor working women, a contradictory and cynical expression. but as always, women are indeed the biggest victims of inequality in the world of work. as we know, sectors dominated by women are often poorly paid and undervalued. and it is also women who are most often forced into these contracts of despair. single women with children, women facing discrimination, women with disabilities, women with a low level of education... and with the poverty of women comes necessarily the poverty of children, because it is women who buy the basic products.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the midwives, the filling stations in the supermarket, the forklift drivers in the distribution centers: they don't have the choice to work from home. they're putting us at risk, but their hard work is hardly appreciated. the fact that there is poverty among hardworking people in the netherlands, in europe, is hard to believe. inequality is growing within and between countries. we have to, and we can. our plan is to make minimum wages fair wages, to give people certainty about their income and their work schedule by abolishing zero-hour contracts, and to give platform workers like the caterers equal rights. we can make binding agreements on this at the social summit in porto.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against the growing phenomenon of working-class poverty is an absolute necessity for all of us. the share of european workers at risk of poverty was 9.4% in 2018, up by one percentage point compared to ten years ago. this is an unacceptable reality and is likely to become even more so due to covid-19. i am strongly in favour of the introduction of a minimum wage in every country of the european union. a genuine social shield must be quickly put in place so that every worker can benefit from it, which would ensure a decent standard of living. at the same time, it is imperative that social cohesion and upward convergence be strengthened. i would also like to stress the economic vulnerability of women or certain atypical workers whose jobs are essential to maintaining or reviving activity. finally, it is clear that such measures must be part of an overall framework for combating poverty. it is absolutely essential to reduce inequalities in our societies.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the impact of covid-19 on young people and sport by sabine verheyen, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000074/2020 b9-0005/21) (2020/2864 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic is affecting many aspects of our lives. but the young generation and the sports sector in particular are among the most affected sectors. the ongoing pandemic is disproportionately affecting young people. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (en) and the european neighbourhood instrument (en) and the european investment bank (eib). in sport, the cancellation of all events for months and the reopening of stadiums to the exclusion of the public has led to enormous financial strain on the associations and the sports organisers. and even more dramatically, the sport of sailing was almost completely shut down for almost a year. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. in view of the devastating impact of the pandemic on the youth sector and on sport and the sectors and industries dependent on it, this motion for a resolution is an important signal and must be adopted by parliament as soon as possible and action taken by the commission. as regards young people, this motion for a resolution assesses the multiple damage caused by the current pandemic to europe's youth in terms of access to education, youth activities and young people's participation in social and economic life. the resolution proposes a series of measures to counter the catastrophic impact of the pandemic on the youth and sport sectors. in particular, it calls for greater financial support for the most vulnerable and greater flexibility in promoting informal education systems across the eu. all forms of education, vocational training, formal and informal education, need our special attention. we call on the commission and the member states to mobilise all available eu programmes and funding to address the digital transformation and modernisation of informal education systems, but also to support young people in their social and professional integration in these difficult times. as one of our priorities, we emphasise the crucial importance of formal and non-formal learning, arts and culture, sport, volunteering and social activities in promoting youth participation and social cohesion as tools that have a huge impact on local communities and can help address many societal challenges. youth organisations play a crucial role in this. especially in the corona situation, they need special support to keep their operations running under the restrictions. we should put a stronger focus on young people in the economic recovery programmes in order to contribute to the european digital strategy and the achievement of a digital single market, but above all to allow young people to participate more fully in these processes. we therefore urge to increase investment in digital structures and skills development to achieve practical skills, competences and qualifications and to improve the overall level of digital skills and competences in the context of the implementation of the digital education action plan. this is not only the case in formal education, but also in informal education. the second part of the resolution deals with the devastating impact that the pandemic is still having on both professional and, above all, popular sports. we need to focus on reducing the damage to the sports sector, not just in terms of the economy and employment, but also to society as a whole. we need to be aware of the many benefits of sport to society in terms of public health, social inclusion, integration and cohesion. and to avoid permanent damage to the sector, substantial support is needed. the commission and the member states must make use of the available eu programmes and ensure full access for sport to the building and resilience facility, the european regional development fund and the cohesion policy funds, as well as the european social fund plus and eu4health. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against the spread of the virus, in particular by means of the european union's action plan on the prevention of and fight against the spread of the virus. this must include a structured and systematic exchange of best practice between member states and increased dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders. the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the union's financial contribution to the union's sporting activities is limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objectives of the union's sporting policy. the general reconstruction instruments adopted by the eu in response to the crisis must help to support the sports sector in the short term and to do more for our young generation.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and chairman of the cult committee, sabine verheyen, and all of you for this important resolution which sends a very strong signal, a signal of support for our youth and for sport. first of all, as regards young people, let us start with the fact that young people are the ones who are most affected by the crisis we are experiencing. however, even though they were hard hit by the crisis, young people also managed to show great resilience and presented solidarity initiatives of an impressive scale. what can we do about it? what can we do to avoid a lockdown generation? in recent months, we have adjusted our erasmus+ instruments and the european solidarity corps to respond to these disruptions, by offering alternative, including digital, solutions to their activities. first, the continuous dialogue with young people and our national agencies. at the end of april, we launched a survey on how the outbreak has affected the normal course of erasmus+ mobility activities or the european solidarity corps. the results of the survey indicate that in higher education the vast majority of students have succeeded in continuing their mobility. the majority of these continued their mobility with virtual and online learning activities, whether in their home or host countries. 75% of the participants returned home, while about 25% remained abroad. to continue this work, we intend to present a european youth report in the third quarter of this year, paying particular attention to the impact of the pandemic. this will feed into the preparation of future policy priorities in the framework of the union's youth work plan 2022-2024. secondly, on the employment front, in july we increased our support for youth employment with the youth employment support (yes) initiative. in october, the council adopted our proposal for a strengthened and more inclusive youth guarantee, with an age limit raised from 25 to 30 years. thirdly, on the education front, we have emphasised, through the digital education action plan, the need to develop digital skills as well. and also, mrs verheyen, that it is not just formal training, but informal training as well. this is why i cite as an example the digital opportunities internship initiative which, during this year, will be extended and broadened to include internships for apprentices and trainees in the vocational education and training sector. finally, we must also use the opportunities offered by the european institute of innovation and technology, which plans to train more than 12 000 young girls in digital and entrepreneurial skills by the end of the year to increase their employability, particularly in digital sectors. of course, there is also mixed mobility. this mixed mobility will be and will be part of the solution, but let us be very clear: the idea is not to replace physical mobility, which will remain a unique and irreplaceable experience. but participants can start with virtual mobility and then continue with physical mobility. now, as for the new erasmus+ programmes and the european solidarity corps, thanks also to your efforts and the substantial budgetary envelope, there will be more opportunities for our young people. we must include them more in initiatives such as the conference on the future of europe or the new bauhaus initiative. i would also like to make a point on sport: the covid-19 crisis has once again highlighted how essential sport is as a source of economic activity and employment, but also for our physical and mental well-being. while the big clubs probably have some margin to absorb temporary revenue losses, the very existence of many amateur leagues or less popular sports is threatened. this puts our european model of sport at risk. from the outset, we committed to supporting states through an unprecedented set of economic measures to support both mass sport and the sport economy, notably through the three horizontal initiatives of the coronavirus investment initiative, the sure instrument, and the flexibility granted in the application of state aid rules. and, of course, the flexibility of the erasmus+ sport chapter. thanks to your efforts, the 'sport' chapter of the erasmus+ programme, which remains our source of sport-specific support, will benefit from a significant increase. we should also not forget that regional funds have a role to play. in this context, let me mention the share initiative, which raises awareness of funding opportunities to support sport and physical activity in the context of local and regional development. in this context, the joint action plan with the committee of the regions makes perfect sense, as it aims to maximise the impact of our policies on the ground. and to get a better picture, we did a study on the economic impact of the covid-19 crisis on the sports sector. the results were published in november and its conclusions leave no doubt that the sports sector has been severely affected by this crisis. however, as i said at the beginning, sport has once again proved to be essential to our lives. and despite all the difficulties, our sixth edition of the european week of sport managed to reach over 15 million european citizens through over 32 000 events. as part of the european union work plan for sport 2021-2024, adopted in december, we intend to set up an expert group to support the recovery and resilience of the sector. next week, i will also be organising the first meeting of the high level group on gender equality in sport. finally, i commit to follow up the tartu call for a healthy lifestyle launched in 2017. the new initiative, healthy lifestyle for all, will focus on cross-sectoral cooperation.today more than ever, we also need to link sport with health, the environment, innovation, youth, skills. and that is also at the heart of what we do. i look forward to continuing the dialogue with you on this subject.
we are all aware of the serious, destructive impact of the closure of schools, sports arenas, stadiums, art schools, in short, all the leisure activities that young people are used to and cannot now enjoy. how does this affect their physical and mental health? the economic impact on families with children and on job losses is also serious. yet young people remain active, and we even know that 30% of young people have engaged in volunteer activities to combat the impacts of the covid-19 pandemic. therefore, it is very important to support young people in what can sustain them in crises and build their resilience. this will also be done through the european solidarity corps, which will benefit up to 350 000 young people over the next seven years. and perhaps this initiative will help them to get through this difficult period and will be a start for their next studies or professional life. of course, the main burden of the burden lies with the member states, and that is why the recovery and resilience tool we are voting on today and tomorrow should help them. i would remind you that it is the european parliament which clearly defines funding so that one of the six basic areas is also a policy for the next generation, children and young people, including their skills. this means that member states should clearly seize this crisis as an opportunity. an opportunity to invest in improving the conditions for all that young people are losing today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market, and that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. we're here to show you what the problems are, but we're also here to suggest concrete solutions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not children and adolescents are among the main victims of the pandemic. not only are they not allowed to go to school or daycare, there is no open child and youth work, sports clubs are closed. child and youth work and organised grassroots sport have long been characterised throughout the eu by precarious staffing, a shortage of skilled workers and disproportionately low pay. the pandemic has struck at their fragile structures with equal force and threatens to destroy them permanently. this is a disaster we will have to deal with for a long time to come if we do not act quickly. we need to ensure that children and adolescents in times of threatened isolation have an extra-family network to counter lack of contact and movement, aggression or depression, loss of daily structure or lack of emotional corrective action by other people. without this network, for example, domestic violence goes undetected far too often. this is where the social protection that all eu countries must offer young people - even in difficult situations - fails. the vote tomorrow will help to put children and young people back at the centre of our political debate.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, they deserve our full attention and above all our actions. they are our young people, all the young people of europe. not only are they living with the pandemic, which often affects their families severely, but they are also living in isolation at the age of encounters, of carefree, joyful living, at the age when, normally, one begins one's social life. they also have difficulty in getting a normal education and, more importantly, finding a job. youth unemployment has skyrocketed during this lockdown period and we need to help them. each of our 27 member states must commit to allocating resources to young people. we are calling for measures to be taken for education to the extent of 10% of the national recovery plans, measures to facilitate young people's access to sustainable and fairly paid jobs. we also call on states to combat discrimination against the most vulnerable, lgbt youth and young women, and to provide attentive support to young migrants, who are even more unfairly affected by this crisis. finally, i would like to add my wish that young people should have access to vaccination as soon as possible, so that they can finally build their future as quickly and safely as possible.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, on behalf of the itre committee, we contributed to the work that has been done on this recovery and resilience facility. first, by adding a definition of resilience that was not present in this text. for us, resilience is about being able to produce again what we need to face the crises of tomorrow. the crisis we have just experienced has shown how dependent we had already become, for basic goods, on other great world powers. it is obviously the sovereignty of our member states that is at stake for the future. we have also incorporated a 'future clause' into this work, to ensure that the funds that are to be mobilised are actually used in a way that produces prosperity for future generations, which will allow them to repay the funding we transfer to them. in fact, this recovery and resilience plan continues to pose a major problem: we have agreed to a debt together without agreeing on how to pay it back. there was, i believe, a political necessity, but also an ethical necessity to prepare for our future. it is in this long-term sense that the itre committee has sought to carry out its work.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to embark on a great adventure. i hear that thanks to this recovery plan, the city of brussels will be able to remove the scaffolding of its famous courthouse and even renovate the cinquantenaire. more seriously, ladies and gentlemen, this plan will enable us to improve the energy performance of our buildings and thus reduce pollution. this plan will enable us to digitize our economy, to connect our territories. it will enable us to tackle the scourge of young people without education and without jobs. this is the europe we are building. this is the europe we are voting for today. let's be proud of it. however, the rule is no cheating. no state that deviates from our values. no state that deviates from the investment criteria we have collectively decided. we will be very vigilant in this regard, you may be assured. lastly, and perhaps at the risk of repeating myself, this plan will not cost the states a single euro. it will not cost the citizens a single euro, because we have negotiated a reimbursement agreement. this agreement was negotiated by the members of the european parliament, much to the displeasure of some in this house who claim otherwise. the own resources will be used to repay the recovery plan. ladies and gentlemen, europe is undergoing a radical historical change. so i say it bluntly: yes, this is a giant step towards a more integrated europe and we must take it, because that is what effective europe is.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european recovery plan which is being put in place to support our enterprises contains many aberrant elements. firstly, because of what is in it. first, an unfair and unjust financial distribution system whereby the biggest contributors, including france, will receive less than they give. secondly, the infamous article 9a, which links the benefit of the recovery plan to respect for the rule of law and the fundamental values of the union, is a real ideological and financial blackmail. thirdly, an obligation for states to prepare national recovery and resilience plans over four years that implement the mandates of the european semester, a true european super-statism. fourth, an insane obligation to devote at least 60% of the amounts for each project to climate and digital. finally, a broad, but illegitimate, competence for olaf and the european public prosecutor's office to conduct investigations, i.e. in practice, to control the finances of the member states. on the other hand, this recovery plan is also aberrant because it is absent. in fact, these 724 billion will be used to pursue the priorities of the european union, which is the reason why we have been hit so hard. nothing on the relocations, though they were promised. nothing on national control of strategic industries. nothing about sovereignty or autonomy. on the contrary, the report calls for ever greater integration. the european union has clearly learned nothing from the health crisis or from our dependence on logistics. it has been incompetent in procuring masks, incompetent in acquiring tests, incompetent in managing medical protective equipment, incompetent, finally, in negotiating and delivering vaccines. the european union dreamed of a great europe of health. it is a europe of failure that she has presented us with. it is through industrial independence and control of our production chains that we will achieve strength and stability. there's still time.
mr president, we have been discussing public funds for months, which we must mobilize in a way that is indispensable to respond to the economic and social crisis that is affecting us. however, we must not forget that this crisis is systemic and of ecological origin. it is the result of the damage to biodiversity, which is the great sacrifice of this agreement. we need to reorient our economy so that it ensures both social justice and the protection of our planet. however, the rules we have adopted to govern this recovery plan do not respond to this emergency. on the contrary, the conditions attached to the european semester are unfair and will be painful in the future. once again, the long-term is sacrificed for the short-term. and we still have no guarantee that the climate funds that have not been raised will not undermine the transition. we are told that there is a safety net, a taxonomy, which is fragile because it has been weakened by the lobbies. according to the high council for climate, in france, for example, two-thirds of the french stimulus plan will revive the economy of the past. finally, let us examine and condition our stimulus plans to their impact on the poorest 10 per cent. they're the first to be hit by the crisis. so let's be bold and take the initiative today.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a little history is in order. for almost 40 years, from 1956 to 1993, polish women had the right to access abortion freely and free of charge. in 1993, access to the ivg was severely restricted. today, abortion is effectively banned by the constitutional court. what's happening in poland is serious. this judgment seems to have been written by priests, not jurists. this ruling puts women's health and lives at risk and criminalizes doctors. commissioner, obscurantism is back in the heart of europe. civil society is mobilized. the european parliament has been standing by polish women for months. but now it is your turn, commission and council. you have the tool: it's the budget. then act with courage and responsibility!
madam president, since 27 january, the right to abortion in poland has been de facto illegal. since october 22, women and men have been demonstrating against this decision. i say a lot about women and men, because even if they say first of all that every woman has the right to control her own body as she wants, it's not a fight of women, it's a fight of all of us. we have built ourselves on common values and a common will to defend a model of society that we hold dear. in this model, it is essential that women's rights and freedom of choice are guaranteed. this is no longer the case in poland: a leap backwards into a dark past. if the polish government and the court persist in violating the rule of law, we will have to use all the means at our disposal, including budgetary means, to protect essential and fundamental rights, including the rights to contraception, health and education, as commissioner dalli has just reminded us. that's our role, that's our duty. to all those who are struggling, i would like to say: "you'll never walk alone".
madam president, the de facto ban on abortion in poland... the need for a new debate on gender equality in poland is appalling, but let no one think that we will surrender our arms. we will remain alert and vigilant. after the threats to abortion rights in this country, we now have a ban on abortion outright. once again, the polish authorities are in the spotlight, but for all the wrong reasons. i would add that we are now well aware of their relays in the european institutions, which are engaged in uncomplicated lobbying. my message of support today is for the poles who have demonstrated in their thousands since 22 october against this revolting decision, it is for the ngos and civil society who have been fighting for years against reactionary practices. we have supported them and we will continue to do so. i would also like to pay tribute to my polish national parliamentary colleagues who are doing their best to safeguard women's rights. the decision in poland shows us that they seem to be taken for granted, but that they are fragile. this fight is for all, men and women, to ensure that access to abortion is a guaranteed right throughout the european union.
madam president, we are in the 21st century and it is still the same old thing: men decide, women drink. polish men have therefore decided that polish women will no longer have the right to have an abortion. here's the good old patriarchal oppression in one sentence. every year, 100,000 polish women have an illegal abortion. every year, 100 000 women, right in the heart of the european union, put their lives at risk - 100 000 today, more tomorrow. commissioner, you have the means to act. take action now! fund access to abortion in neighbouring countries for polish women who wish to have an abortion. and we, ladies and gentlemen, show that europe is defending its citizens. let us take up again this beautiful idea of gisèle halimi, the clause of the most favoured european. let us harmonize our laws from the top down for laws that affect women's lives. hundreds of thousands of poles and polish women are demonstrating in the streets. they are the pride of europe. they're watching us. let us be worthy of them!
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr high representative, intellectually we come from different political families and i have never failed to point out in this house that sometimes your initiatives seemed questionable to me. but this time, i'd like to pay tribute to you. your recent visit to moscow was, i believe, courageous, realistic and necessary. yes, i am one of those who believe that the european union cannot have a unified diplomacy. you have seen it yourself, since your allies were all ready to stab you in the back when your move was not even finished. inconsequential enlargement, a constitutionalised atlanticism and a public desire to return to the cold war are now preventing the european union from adopting a realistic policy. so you had little chance of success and it was certain that russia, so regularly insulted by the european institutions, would not give you a gift. that is precisely why it was necessary to take this risk, to go to moscow and to get in touch with our russian partners. that is why we had to get rid of hypocrisy. if europe looks to the atlantic, it must also look to the east, at least as far as the urals, according to general de gaulle's formula. we are not naïve, of course, and we know that russia will pursue its interests in its relations with brussels. it is a question of ceasing to pursue, as far as we are concerned, the interests of other countries in our relations with moscow. to say these simple things is to want a policy of independence and dignity for our member states. to say these simple things is to say that we must stop being the laughing stock of the world by giving moral lessons to the whole world, while we continue to look the other way in turkey or pakistan. foreign policy is a matter of power. the russian power is here. germany knows that with nord stream. france knows this in the middle east and africa. the european union is rediscovering it by admitting that the sputnik v vaccine may soon be needed. colleagues, joe biden began his presidency by saying "america is back". the right policy for us would be to reply to him: "europe is free". (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
madam president, with a little intelligence, he could have grasped the message that josep borrell's presence alone was bringing him. with a little lucidity, he could have understood that, of course, of course, we condemned and totally condemned, and we would say it loud and clear, the judicial harassment inflicted on alexei navalny and the arrest also of demonstrators who support him, but that at the same time we wanted to keep bridges open with russia, on iran in particular. nothing is more legitimate and easier to understand than this position. but what mr. putin understood was that he had to act like a little playground terror to shout to the world and to russia that he was not afraid of us. well, mr. putin, that was a bust. by behaving so badly, you've only shown your panic. the one that now blinds you because the russian opposition has found its figurehead. because you're losing ground in the states that were once your empire. because your popularity is declining and this head-to-head with china that your blindness condemns your country to, no one wants it in russia, not the big fortunes, not the security forces, not the urban middle classes. you're losing your grip on this, mr. putin. and while your reign may be a long and painful one, it is open. you open it with your obvious panic.
i'm not going to let you do this. naivety in relations with russia is an unpardonable sin, but i would still prefer that your visit to moscow be motivated by inexperience and credulity, not by an incomprehensible belief that vladimir putin can be persuaded of something. the worst fears of member states, including poland, that this trip would only damage our existing sanctions policy, which, while not perfect, seemed firm and deliberate, have been realized. your visit has destroyed those efforts. it was felt that regardless of russia's human rights record, repression of the opposition, assassinations of its own citizens, or violations of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its neighbors, we were prepared to normalize our relations. well, we're not, and we shouldn't be. is it true that you and minister lavrov discussed the possibility of working together on cyber security, when russian hackers attack our institutions on a daily basis? in 1945, the former polish prime minister of the government in exile, stanisław mikołajczyk, visited moscow. four blocks away from the kremlin, the trial of 16 leaders of the polish underground state, his recent subordinates, was taking place at the same time. the st. nicholas was humiliated, but at least by 2 years he delayed the introduction of stalinism in poland. he was humiliated, but he didn't lose face. and you? what was worth such humiliation in moscow? during your conference with minister lavrov, european diplomats were expelled. even at such a moment, you couldn't break off this disgraceful visit. and you lost your virtue and didn't earn a ruble. señor alto representante, the burlarse has left you.
madam president, the opposition leader navalny is showing immense courage, testing the waning leadership of putin. this brave man and the entire opposition need our full support. mr borrell on the other hand, made a fool of himself last week in moscow. by his actions, he made a mockery of the ambition of the eu to play a major role on the world stage. his actions are, i’m sorry to say, in line with several recent ill—considered actions of the commission. however, let us remember, we are able to criticise our political leaders freely – a right that every human has, but in many countries is trampled on by so-called political leaders and tyrants. mr nevalny is on a mission. he should have our support. the unfortunate actions of mr borrell must not distract us from the principle that is at stake here: freedom.
madam president, mr high commissioner, high—representative, we strongly condemn the decision to prosecute aleksei navalny. we strongly condemn the attempt to murder navalny. we strongly condemn the repression of demonstrations that took place all across the territory of russia. we strongly condemn the unacceptable expulsion of three european union diplomats and we strongly condemn the cynical attitudes of foreign minister lavrov. we praise the courage and the resilience of the russian people, of the russian opposition, of the russian civil society. we praise in particular the courage of aleksei navalny, of his family, of his supporters. high—representative mr josep borrell: because we strongly condemn the russian authorities’ behaviour and their authoritarian regime; because we praise the extraordinary bravery of the russian people and oppositionists, we deeply regret your vision and your actions in such an important, decisive and sensitive file. we deeply regret your decision to go to moscow. we deeply regret your unfortunate and condescending declarations. we deeply regret that you did not have the courage to face eye-to-eye mr lavrov’s unacceptable stance. mr borrell, don’t get us wrong, the european union peoples and this house, the european parliament, will never give up. we will be always on the side of the russian people’s aspiration for freedom and democracy. for some reason, our human rights prize is the sakharov prize. we shall never surrender. (applause)
madam president, i would like to ask mr borrell whether he knows how a bear is tamed. once you try, you’d better be prepared, by bringing a pot of honey and a big stick, because the moment the bear senses that you’re not in control, he attacks. if you’re lucky, the bear only hurts you badly, but often their attacks are lethal. last friday, the russian bear badly roughed you up, mr borrell. your disastrous visit to moscow damaged you personally. but even worse is the damage done to the eu as a whole. we have never looked so weak and clueless about how to deal with russia. i even fear that our relations with russia are worse than before your visit, and that’s not good. there are colleagues in this house who want to finish the bear’s job and send you home. i don’t think you must step down. but today it’s clear that parliament is giving you a yellow card. let this humiliating experience be a lesson. we must agree, colleagues, on a clear strategy on how to engage with russia – a strategy supported by both the council and this parliament, so that next time, mr borrell, you are prepared and have a real chance to tame the bear.
madam president, i really regret having to listen to colleagues in this house, from the extreme right and the extreme left, who show more understanding for the dictatorship of putin than for our own democracy. this, i must say, as the first sentence. mr borrell, your visit to moscow was the very opposite of a success. it was a failure, but it is also true that you had been dealt a very bad hand because of the lack of unity in the council. russia played foul, so let’s stand up to them. i do object to those that now call for your resignation. the dire situation in eu—russia relations has deeper roots. let’s not fall into a trap. your words, today, mr borrell, were strong and severe. i hope they will resonate in berlin and paris in particular. but you must fight to turn words into deeds, and you will have us as allies.
mr president, mr high representative, the situation with russia is extremely difficult. the eu shares a 6,000 km border with the country, which, as internal political pressure increases, creates a contradiction and hostile image towards the eu. the expulsion of diplomats is one example of this. although relations between russia and the eu are now at an all-time low, the common border is not going anywhere. it is precisely because of these contradictions that we must keep the dialogue open. it's clear that the visit to moscow was a disappointment and entirely orchestrated by the russians. it is clear, mr high representative, that you will be asked for a long time to answer questions about what was achieved and what the results of your visit were. what is even more important is what the eu will do next. do you think that the new sanctions, carefully chosen, will have a concrete impact? or should we put our faith in the will of the new generations of rising russians to fight for the rule of law in russia?
madam president, mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a russian government which is increasingly flouting democratic rights, i wish to express my support for alexei navalny and this repressed but courageous civil society. last week mr putin also wanted to make fun of europe. the treatment of our high representative is indecent. mr borrell, i'm sure you should have scheduled your visit differently, but the real problem with this provocation is our disunity. this is why i call for unity among the 27 member states and targeted sanctions. that is why i am calling on germany, along with many member states, to stop nord stream 2 today. we need more autonomy from putin and fossil fuels, not the other way around. finally, while the kleptocracy is getting richer, the russian suffers. our role is to support the people more than ever. this is a priority.
madam president, mr borrell, we are again talking about russia and about tense, difficult relations with the european union, which are far from what we would wish for given our common european identity and the intense economic and energy exchanges. but the situation is what it is. the fact is that, despite being a european country that has made commitments as a member of the council of europe and the osce, putin's russia rejects the international order built up over the last decades and does not share our vision of a pluralist democracy and the rule of law. the european union is viewed with suspicion in moscow and our positions are seen as disrespectful of russian sovereignty. but we cannot renounce the so-called liberal international order or the respect for human rights, which is one of our hallmarks. the case of mr navalny makes the deep differences between the european union and russia very clear and turned your meeting in moscow last week, mr high representative, into a declared failure. the situation was certainly dire. moreover, mr lavrov's provocations were totally unnecessary and the press conference was unfortunate. in these circumstances, there is no reason to be optimistic about the future of the european union's relations with russia. in any case, the different positions of the member states, which are the result of historical reasons and different economic interests, do not bode well for the european union's easy adoption of drastic or decisive decisions. you have a difficult job ahead of you, mr. borrell. on the other hand, from washington, the new biden administration is not sending any sign of improving relations with putin. quite the opposite.
madam president, mr high representative, your humiliation in moscow must put an end to 20 years of european illusion and impotence. for 20 years we have heard the same thing in brussels, paris and berlin about the need to cooperate with this criminal regime. putin is exterminating the chechens? we must cooperate! putin invades georgia, and then the ukraine? we must cooperate! putin is wiping out aleppo, homs, idlib? we must cooperate! putin kills my friend, my role model in life, anna politkovskaya, and so many other russian journalists and dissidents? we must cooperate! putin is funding our far right and meddling in our elections? we must cooperate! it's time we understood that he's the one who's uncooperative and he's just dismissive of our weakness. it's time to get out of the helplessness, to strike where it hurts: the wallet. we're freezing assets, seizing yachts, blocking the money of the oligarchs. let's show that we're strong and only then will we be respected.
madam president, 'out of sight, out of mind' is the saying. the conflict in yemen is one of those forgotten conflicts. for more than six years, a terrible war has raged in yemen. the war pits the houthis against an international coalition that in 2017 delegated the management of the conflict to the local powers of saudi arabia and the united arab emirates. the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians and soldiers, victims of bombing, famine and fighting, are deplorable today. composite and fragile, yemen is one of the oldest centers of civilization in the middle east. the current yemen was born in 1990, and the country's history has been marked by high political instability and uninterrupted unrest. the european union, which is so eager to participate in the concert of nations, is once again demonstrating its impotence and ineffectiveness in resolving this conflict. the european union is powerless because it is totally discredited by its naïve marvels at the arab spring, the results of which are nothing like a democratic advance. powerless by its criminal support for the syrian rebellion. its guilty silence in the face of the destabilization of libya by islamist terrorists and its blatant impotence in the face of the establishment of daesh have completely erased its voice and influence in the middle east. the european union is persisting in condemnations which sound false and are in fact wishful thinking. only those member states with influence in the region, and france foremost among them, have the legitimacy and credibility to try to resolve a conflict that has now become bogged down. and that uncertainty will grow. the interventionist ambitions of the new us president, who wants to restore his country to global leadership, risk increasing regional instability. the european union, incoherent and discredited, must leave it to the nations to make their own contribution to the resolution of this conflict.
madam president, yemen means the worst ongoing humanitarian crisis in the world. many terrible figures on human suffering and human failures have been mentioned during this debate. we desperately need more diplomatic efforts to trigger a wide and inclusive political process. after six years of war, all contending parties have to understand that no further military offensives will end the conflict. but for the war to stop we also need our member states to stop fuelling the conflict by selling arms. us president biden recently announced the suspension of arms sales to saudi arabia and the emirates. we, in the eu, should ban sales of arms or any military equipment to the saudi—led coalition. member states who have only frozen such exports should permanently revoke all export licenses. with their arm sales, which break the eu common position, many eu member states – with spain ranking prominently – are complicit in the prolongation of this terrible war. it is time for them now to be complicit in peace.
madam president, i would like to thank you. his excellency the ambassador borell! i want to show you a picture of a child. we've talked a lot about the people involved, the children who are starving. i think of myself, looking at pictures from yemen, seeing children malnourished on the brink of starvation that could take their lives. and then i see my own children playing, plump, happy, free. and that's where i think we have to be, we have to stay, we have to be able to look at it. i think there's something about the speed blindness that we sometimes have today that we don't stop and realize that this is not how it's supposed to look. this is something that should have been passed down in history. i lived for a decade, i would say, believing that hunger was a part of my childhood, of my upbringing. i thought it was over, that the world had gotten over this. we have to remember that and we have to put a lot, a lot more focus on helping these children to a freedom, focus on -- as has been said in this debate -- food, but also peace.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly deplored the plight of the yemenis. let's remember, this is the worst crisis in the world according to humanitarian organizations. europe should not internalize its impotence. we note with regret that the french government has not resumed its arms sales to saudi arabia. our industrialists even continue the after-sales service. the united states has decided to suspend all arms sales contracts. europe must stop playing the powerless. the eu's law on arms sales must be strengthened. urgently call upon the european union and the member states to support the creation of a clear mechanism that collects evidence of these crimes and to promote referral to the international criminal court. the humanitarian emergency is great. we must act effectively.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, six months ago the european parliament, full of the certainty that it alone embodies respect for human rights, with the clear conscience of the philanthropic bourgeois, issued a statement of self-satisfied dignity: aung san suu kyi was formally excluded from the sakharov prize community. this decision obviously has no bearing on recent events and the imprisonment of aung san suu kyi. to see a causal link would be to overestimate the diplomatic influence of the european union, which, thanks to its backwardness and ridicule, no longer weighs anything. as you can see, mr. high representative, your pathetic escape to russia. the european union, the self-proclaimed champion of freedom and democracy, is subject to the worst forms of fundamentalism. when it comes to the serious issues of international relations, emotion and common sense prevail. it was this emotion that made you choose aung san suu kyi as the sakharov prize, it was this same emotion that made you withdraw it from her. always that emotion that sees you today stuttering in the face of what you were unable to foresee. it's this kind of good thinking that has you always choosing the same victims around the world and systematically forgetting about some others. your european union prefers the uighurs to the persecuted catholics in china. she prefers the rohingya to the karen people, who have been persecuted for decades. she prefers black lives matter and its parade of violence to the middle classes, dispossessed of everything. today you are forced to slalom between opposing ideological positions, which are never dictated by the realities and complexities of international relations. the coup d'état in myanmar and the brutal restoration of the military junta are of course totally reprehensible. and the european union would have the means to express it instead of moral injunctions, which autocrats mock. let's use some concrete measures. the trade preferences allowing myanmar to export to the european union duty-free under the everything but arms agreement should be suspended. not only will the military junta be effectively sanctioned, but this decision will also help to protect the interests of some of our member states. these events, ladies and gentlemen, are a new diplomatic lesson for the european union, which is clearly struggling to make progress. slave to its ideology, the european union cannot teach lessons of freedom, since it does not represent any people. the european union is not meant to become a voice in the world, but to leave it to the nations to defend their interests in a world where they are becoming more and more important. it is said that the politician thinks of the next election, the statesman thinks of the next generation. in diplomatic matters, if it wishes to avoid ridicule, the european union should think beyond its next communication.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, in ukraine, the european union has still learned nothing from its mistakes. in 2013, it was a form of fanaticism that took over the commission. it went against all historical, cultural and political evidence and wanted ukraine to sign an association agreement without delay, the main objective of which was to distance kiev from russia. it was ignoring the importance of the ties between a part of the ukrainian population and russia, and especially in crimea and donbass. since 2013, the european union has squandered countless european money for ideological goals that have no relation to the reality of the country. as our colleague mike wallace has shown in the committee, behind the commission's generosity there is a more sordid reality. privatization of agricultural land, privatization of forests and the reckless liberalization of the ukrainian economy are the counterparts that globalism imposes on the ukrainian people. the end will be bitter for this people. ukraine was to be a link between western europe and russia. instead, it is being injected with european public money, which we know is being used without any serious control. several hundred million euros of loans were disbursed, without any counterpart, for covid-19. since 2013, the european union has not enriched the country. it raised the income of the oligarchs. after praising president zelensky, we see that he has just suddenly closed three private television channels to better consolidate his power. our association with ukraine is costly, fruitless for the ukrainians and our peoples, and generates tensions with russia. this is the result of the brussels madness since 2013.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, mrs von der leyen, i am not going to go down four roads. i have a very important question for you today: how could the european commission have agreed to go to bed with the pharmaceutical companies? in the management of the vaccine strategy, i have the feeling, mrs von der leyen, that the leaders of big pharma have made the law for you. first, on negotiations and contracts: it is opacity on all levels. no information on the negotiations, despite the requests of our parliament. only three contracts made public thanks to our citizen pressure. and this is what they look like, for those of you who haven't seen it: all the most important information, like price, delivery timing or even the details of the liability clauses are hidden. the rest of the contracts, we'll have to wait until the labs are decent enough to publish them. because, yes, they are. then there are the deliveries, the delays and the deadlines. without any sanctions, of course. because, yes, it's the labs that decide. the same thing happened with the patents. these vaccines have been developed with billions of euros of public money, but the patents remain the exclusive property of big pharma. as a result, the world's governments cannot produce the doses that are so badly needed. because, yes, it's the labs that decide. and finally, cherry on top of the cake, 15 billion in profits, 15 billion in turnover and a 20 to 25% margin for pfizer, which is also celebrating its success, its blockbuster, i quote. sanofi didn't find a vaccine, but they did find 400 research positions to cut and 4 billion euros in dividends to distribute. the lab's pulling the champagne. because, yes, they are. what an admission of your powerlessness, mrs von der leyen! are we not here in this chamber to make the law? we can impose on our fellow citizens an unprecedented restriction of our freedoms, but we would be unable to set the rules for big pharma? the commission must be held accountable. that is why, on behalf of our left group in the european parliament, i call for the immediate establishment of a committee of inquiry into the commission's responsibility for this disaster. we have a right to know, because after all, these vaccines were paid for with our money, and the equation should be simple: public money, public contracts, patents in the public domain. it's as simple as that. for decades, we have left everything, including our health, in the hands of the private sector, and now we are at an impasse. what we're proposing here is a reverse path: to end the all-powerful lab. it's time to get rid of patents and make sure that no profit is made on the pandemic. this is the only way to vaccinate the entire planet quickly, rich countries as well as poor countries, to reassure citizens who doubt, by taking vaccines out of the clutches of multinationals, to hope to live again after a year of mourning, worry, isolation, and precariousness. that is what your role should be, mrs von der leyen, if you had not abdicated in the face of the laboratories when the population is exhausted, when the precarious workers are hungry, when the young are desperate. let's take back control of the labs, take health out of the marketplace, and finally consider vaccines as the common good of humanity, not the cash machine of shareholders.
madam chairman! much of the criticism of the european commission is unjustified. we couldn't have gotten a safe vaccine any faster. but it's a bitch not to be able to count on the deliveries. the commission's secrecy about the contracts has not been helpful either. the worst thing is that the global access to vaccines is not taken seriously. not a single person has been vaccinated in 130 countries that already have problems with getting the necessary supplies, medicines and personnel. now it even suggests that the astra zeneca vaccine, which many are betting on, has little effect against the south african variant. in other words, the covax model is completely inadequate. the eu should renegotiate contracts with industry so that we can give others access to know-how, clinical data and technology. we know that many countries have spare production capacity. 100 countries in the wto support the proposal to temporarily suspend the patents. if industry does not join, the eu must support this suspension. everything else is completely off the table, health-wise, economically and morally.
madam president! europe today is paralysed by health fears and many limitations. vaccination is the only chance we have of getting back to normal, unfreezing the economy and getting out of the recession. the attitude of pharmaceutical companies that do not follow the delivery schedule is disappointing. many member states have prepared vaccination plans, trusting the commission's assurances that joint procurement is the best solution. today, those plans need to be changed and the vaccination process delayed. does the chair know the real reason for the notorious delivery delays? what consequences does the commission intend to draw for the companies? are the vaccines that were supposed to be given to eu citizens being sold to other countries at a higher price? what safeguards are provided in the contracts signed in the event of such a situation? ladies and gentlemen, the answers to these questions are the commission's last chance to regain at least some of the trust that citizens and governments have lost during the pandemic.
madam president, madam president of the european commission, this is one of the greatest health challenges we face today. i am convinced that only a coordinated european response was and remains the right approach, and it was essential to avoid unbridled competition between 27 member states, 27 different prices and each for himself. however, in the face of such a crisis, there is a demand for truth and transparency that we owe to the citizens of europe. of course, we can understand that some elements of the contracts between the european commission and the laboratories are covered by industrial secrecy and that some clauses are confidential. on the other hand, there must be full transparency as regards the purchases made by the member states and the timing of past and future deliveries. european citizens are asking a lot of questions today: where are the promised doses? why aren't they coming? these are questions that need to be answered. the credibility of the european union is at stake. it is urgent to publish a precise schedule of deliveries and to specify the number of doses delivered by each laboratory in each member state. it is also essential that all our available production capacity in europe is mobilised to accelerate the vaccination which alone will enable us to achieve herd immunity and emerge from this pandemic. finally, we must be concerned about the psychological and economic suffering of our young people who are falling into poverty. the images of long lines of students waiting for food aid left a lasting impression. joint actions must be undertaken by the member states. it is our future and the future of future generations.
madam president, since the beginning of the health crisis, the european technocracy has shown a flagrant incompetence and disconnection. after failing on mask orders, test orders and border protection, the commission took over the order for vaccines, without having the necessary powers. the french bureaucratic backlog was compounded by the brussels debacle. the opacity with which you have conducted the negotiations has only increased the distrust of the peoples towards one of the ways out of the endless crisis they are going through. meanwhile, the united kingdom, freed from the brussels shackles, has already vaccinated more than ten million people. hungary has chosen to ignore your injunctions by directly pre-ordering two million doses of the russian vaccine that you have chosen to ignore for sad ideological reasons. mrs von der leyen, every minute of delay by brussels means that one more french company loses its balance sheet and with it, its share of social and human consequences. because too often your union, which is more in this crisis, has caused weakness. the period we are living through calls for a very broad reexamination of your major political and economic orientations. national sovereignty is not a despicable idea but a good, the most precious of all peoples, which you have seized for too long and which you must now surrender to the nations of europe if you want a european construction that retains meaning.
in writing. the european vaccine strategy has proved to be a complete failure! from the lack of transparency in the negotiations with the multinational drug companies to the delivery, there were only failures. let us take up the thread of this incredible series of commission errors, starting with the negotiations on the purchase price. i wonder how to explain such a difference in prices, including, according to belgian secretary of state eva de bleeker, between 1.8 euros for the astrazeneca vaccine and 18 dollars for moderna? secondly, the commission kept the contracts and the manufacturers' liability clauses secret. the european parliament, elected by the people, was allowed to consult two copies, but they had to content themselves with illegible copies, the crucial passages of which had been crossed out. finally, there is the mess about deliveries, as the pharmaceutical companies have favoured the best bidder, despite the large advances paid by the commission. the only conclusion is that nations must maintain their sovereignty in public health matters, because the commission is not in a position to deal with major health crises.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how do we get men to stop raping? other hundreds of twitter accounts have been suspended for asking that question. so i am using my freedom as a citizen and my position as a member of the european parliament to question you. does anyone question my freedom to ask this question that many people consider legitimate? let us have the courage to say "stop" to the big platforms on the opaque censorship organized against freedom of expression and opinion. on the internet, individual freedom should not end where the big social media bosses have decided. the internet must be a space for individual and collective empowerment, without excessive centralisation of regulatory powers in the hands of private actors. the pre-eminent place of platforms in the moderation of public political debate is a threat to our democratic models. their monopoly, their algorithms, their conditions of use, the inability of public authorities to control moderation are problems that structure the democratic impasse in which we are. censorship of political figures, censorship of speech and deletion of content without a court order, censorship of feminist accounts, censorship of campaigns to raise awareness of lgbt rights, highlighting controversial content, are different illustrations of the violations of civil liberties and the neutrality of the internet. censorship is never the answer. only through media pluralism and educational policies that develop critical thinking and tolerance will our societies be able to fight against all forms of online hatred and manipulation of information. transparency, shared responsibility and the protection of citizens' fundamental rights must be the guiding principles of the next digital services and digital market legislation frameworks, as it is up to politicians to frame the influence of social networks on political debate before they frame it for us.
madam president, the ngo algorithmwatch reports that existing transparency tools have failed. our laws are not yet fit for purpose in the digital world. our democracies are not ready for the challenges to our liberties and fundamental rights. we often debate these issues, but we still do not have adequate rules at the european level. what we need most here is transparency of algorithm, to hold platforms accountable for the impact on democratic processes and to scrutinise their actions. we need transparency of algorithm to share the data with researchers, for example, at the new european digital media observatory. we need transparency of algorithm to fight disinformation, and we need transparency to help us understand how online spaces have become hotbeds of systemic inequality and discrimination. women and minorities are deserting the online space more and more often, after extremely violent experiences. we are not just talking about a few isolated cases, but about a problem that is becoming more and more mainstream, and we do not have this transparency of algorithm.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is freedom of expression if you are forbidden to use paper and ink? yet this is what is happening today around the world for citizens, activists, personalities and elected officials who are arbitrarily censored by social networks, without prior conviction and without possibility of appeal. in france, for example, is this the case of lr senator sébastien meurant, former lrem mp joaquim son-forget or mp emmanuelle ménard, all three censored by twitter for thinking differently? to have a different idea is not a crime, it is a right. our european parliament would be a better place to defend freedom of expression against the new censors, the internet giants. it's a tough fight, but freedom of expression only makes sense if it protects ideas, all ideas, even those that may go against the grain. the other, official truths, as we know, are accepted even in the worst dictatorships.
mr president, the economic difficulties caused by covid-19 are the pretext for the european commission to put its protective hand on the financial markets. the pandemic is the pretext to reduce the reporting requirements instituted after the financial crisis that erupted in 2008. the pretext for suspending and relaxing measures to make these markets more transparent in the context of greater regulation is thus relaxed at the first opportunity. curious or not, stock markets are seeing higher trading volumes and transactions, as well as greater volatility during the pandemic, which is why the claimed need for capital markets to recover will be questionable to say the least. these markets have not been hit by the tremendous crisis we are experiencing today, as have millions of workers who have lost their jobs and their livelihoods. as were so many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. all of these, yes, need special protection. none of them win with measures of this kind. the pandemic has made it clearer what kind of world we live in. at times like this the waters become more clearly separated. as the other guy said, "it's capitalism, you idiot".
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! we are well aware that the coronavirus crisis is putting enormous pressure on the european economy. right now, we need to focus on keeping our companies alive and saving millions of jobs. we must also make financial sector regulation work for this. this is helped by the capital market recovery package under discussion. i hope the left side of the room finally understands that. we can't stick to the same rigid rules. we need to reduce the administrative burden and make it easier for capital market investments to operate. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by the commission in the field of the internal market. a capital markets union would allow businesses to access fresh resources in a cross-border manner and could therefore be central to economic recovery. this is all the more so as it is becoming increasingly difficult to ensure the competitiveness of european capital markets compared to the much larger and more efficient us or the rapidly growing chinese capital markets. and because of brexit, the eu has lost its most advanced financial market. so there's a lot of work to be done. the two amendments to the legislation we are discussing now help to achieve these objectives, so i support them to the fullest extent possible and i very much hope that the left will finally change its mind.
mr president, madam commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, my group has negotiated, agreed and voted in favour of various legislative texts over the last six months to facilitate the financing of businesses and to meet the financial challenges posed by the coronavirus crisis. we have negotiated, agreed and voted on the revision of the cpr, we have done the same with the sts, with the change in the cpr that required the revision of the sts. we have also negotiated the text of the leaflets and we have also negotiated the text of the benchmarks. however, we cannot do that with mifid today. and perhaps it would be good to say that, in a text, madam commissioner, of only twelve pages of text, the rapporteur has tabled twenty-nine amendments. my group has tried to keep this text as close as possible to the commission's original proposal. and it hasn't been possible. we have not succeeded in convincing the rapporteur and the other groups in the house, on the right of this house, that it was necessary to remain within the perimeter of the commission's proposal. and therefore we cannot vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a historic crisis, and what are some of us proposing, finally? they propose to take advantage of this crisis to do more deregulation, more deregulation, to remove all the safeguards that were created to protect europeans as much as possible from the next financial crisis, the next banking crisis. the same people who usually give us lessons in public finance management and responsibility are pushing the question of deregulation very far. don't worry, they will of course be there when the banks need to be rescued by public finance, but they will also be there afterwards to tell us that efforts will have to be made from a public finance point of view. why? because we will have fuelled the public debt to be able to support certain banks and certain financial players. next time, let's offer these people to save europeans first instead of the banks. let us also propose that they take the risks and responsibility they take in doing financial deregulation and pay for the next crisis, if there is one.
mr president, commissioner, 25 years after the beijing declaration, europe is more committed than ever to promoting equality in all its policies. on the global stage, she leads feminist diplomacy: gender action plan iii, spotlight initiative, generation equality forum, commitments that we should all be proud of. yet at last year's nairobi summit, an international gathering for women's rights, two member states, poland and hungary, chose to disassociate themselves from the european family and sign mr trump's us declaration. yesterday, in this house, we debated the ban on abortion in poland. the word 'gender' is becoming a taboo in the council! commissioner, it is time to look in the mirror. we must manage our own contradictions if we are to remain credible in the eyes of the citizens of the world.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, belarus is free to develop its energy policy of its own choice, this is one of the attributes of its sovereignty, like other states. the ostrovets plant must meet the highest safety standards, as all nuclear power plants. it also ought to do so, since the advocates of nuclear energy, that is to say of energy independence, are now faced with pressing lobbies which would like to bring it down. what do we say in this resolution? this resolution is first and foremost a political burden on minsk and rusatom, even though the nuclear safety group regulators are currently on the ground and the information you have given, commissioner, shows that the control process is finally proceeding normally and that the safest thing to do is to wait for the conclusions. we certainly understand that the people of vilnius want the best guarantees. anybody in the city would do the same, and they're right. but i would like to warn our european partners: poland wants to build six nuclear power stations by 2043, and i would not like this resolution to call into question the principle of the energy independence of a number of our countries. the resolution, in my view, is therefore premature and contrary to the interests of many states, given their energy mix. it also conceals, let us be clear, a desire to call into question the choice of nuclear energy by this country, and i would remind you that if rusatom built this plant, it was because european producers refused to intervene. moreover, if the real concern of our institution is to impose democratic conditions on the establishment of the european energy mix, it must be comprehensive. is algerian gas produced by a democratic country? is the one we import from qatar more expensive? are the gulf monarchies that sell us their oil democracies? does american shale gas meet the commitments of the famous green deal? yes, this plant must meet all safety criteria. before we make any decisions, let us wait for the conclusions of the inspectors who are on the ground and then have a constructive discussion with this government.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ostrovets nuclear power station in belarus is only 50 kilometres from vilnius. today it threatens the whole of europe with a catastrophe similar to that of chernobyl. the day after its inauguration, the plant had to be shut down following the explosion of several electrical transformers. it is a real time bomb that is on our borders and endangers the entire baltic states. the european union must act as quickly as possible to ensure our security. but this particular situation invites us to think more broadly. the european nuclear arsenal is old, and we must quickly decide what to do with it. the vast majority of reactors in operation in the european union were originally designed for a lifetime of 35 to 40 years, while the average age of the european nuclear fleet is now 37 years. this could be extended to 60 years, at the cost of considerable investment and renovation plans, such as the french great fairey, whose cost is estimated at between €50 billion and more than €100 billion. this costly extension will ultimately be met with an insurmountable technical constraint, the irreversible alteration of the steel quality of the tank. so a delay will only delay the appointment, but is gambling really worth the candle? are we prepared to take the risk of an extension and to expose ourselves to the failures of ageing and obsolete equipment? that would be a grave mistake. another question that we have to ask ourselves is: are we going to build new nuclear reactors to replace those that will have to close and turn the page on fossil fuels? this would take many years and would involve equally considerable costs. in france we are determined to build a new reactor which is already ten years behind schedule and whose costs have been tripled. do we have the time and the money to go on such a run? i don't think he did. the facts are clear: first, nuclear power is not the best technology to deal with climate change. secondly, nuclear power is not adapted to the consequences of this same climate change, since the reactor cooling systems show their limits during hot weather. finally, nuclear energy is hampering the deployment of renewable alternatives because it threatens to freeze huge investments. this is not an insult to the employees, technicians and engineers in the sector. i would like to point out their high level of expertise and their dedication to the public interest. we cannot do anything without them, so we must plan the dismantling of nuclear power stations by creating a real supply chain for skilled jobs, by making use of existing know-how. ladies and gentlemen, a 100% renewable europe is possible, let us plan for it now.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the particular case of an opponent of the paul kagame regime inexorably brings us back to the genocide perpetrated in that country 25 years ago, whose unspeakable horror we condemn with all our strength. however, the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy for the resolution in question, and yet it is interested in the case of mr rusesabagina. the european interference on all continents and without result must stop because that is not its role. last september, mr rusesabagina, known for his political activism against the regime, was indicted by the rwandan judiciary. he had denounced the massacres committed by rwandan soldiers on hutu civilians fleeing to the democratic republic of congo; recently, his alliance with the national liberation front, the armed wing of a political party after a period of alternation in the regime, has been criticized. the month before, he was arrested under disturbing and opaque circumstances. he was reportedly kidnapped in dubai and then illegally taken to rwanda. unfortunately, his family background puts him at the heart of rwandan discrimination. he was born to a hutu father and a tutsi mother. how can we accept that such discrimination can take place? the international community is finally paying attention to his situation, as his country of origin continues to flagrantly violate human rights. indeed, deaths in custody, enforced disappearances and torture are regularly reported. the political message to the opponents of the current regime is clear: it does not accept any dissent. this is intolerable. i also wonder about the lack of support from belgium, whose diplomatic authorities have only paid three visits to his national. finally, conditions of detention must remain dignified, as rwanda has not signed the strasbourg convention on transfer and no one should be detained under such conditions. i am afraid, however, that the proposed resolution will not change the behaviour of this dictatorial regime, since the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy and brussels' interference is not allowed to go unchecked, even though the high representative has recently been humiliated in moscow.
author. madam president, 29 years ago, kazakhstan, then a soviet socialist republic, became an independent state. in 29 years, this country has succeeded in becoming a developed state open to the world where many nationalities coexist peacefully in complete religious freedom. can democratic life be improved in these countries? of course, but very few states have managed to go down such a path peacefully in such a short time. kazakhstan has made clear progress in democracy and respect for human rights over the years. president tokayev is continuing the opening announced by president nazarbayev and has recently announced further reforms that increase freedoms, such as the measures already taken in may 2020 with laws on political parties and assemblies. of course, there is still progress to be made, as the kazakh authorities themselves admit. what does this resolution actually do? it is unjustly attacking one of the central asian republics which is setting an example in the region, and thus sending a bad signal to kazakhstan's neighbours who are trying to follow the same path, such as uzbekistan. and this resolution is in fact a response to the wishes of a former kazakh minister, mr abliazov, who has become the patron of all the opposition parties in the country and abroad. this gentleman is a crook. he is accused of embezzling more than €6 billion in his country when he was president of the bta bank. he's sentenced to life in prison for ordering the murder of his partner. convicted in britain, wanted in ukraine and russia for fraud, now a refugee in france. to defend himself, the crook decided to paint himself as a human rights defender and he generously funds many ngos which, in brussels and elsewhere, harass us to condemn kazakhstan. in 1993, on the initiative of the first president nazarbayev, kazakhstan launched the first bolashak programme, which could be translated as 'future', and has since sent thousands of students to train at the best universities in the us and europe. do you think this is a sign of a government that is closed in on itself and afraid of democracy? voting for this resolution is a disservice to a country which is moving at its own pace along the path of economic and democratic development.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ethiopia is once again in the news with the secession of tigray and may be on the verge of a break-up. we must do everything we can to avoid a humanitarian crisis being compounded by a migration crisis, because we know that among the many african migration routes there is one that passes through ethiopia, then through libya and then on to europe. it concerns not only ethiopians but all the peoples of the horn of africa. any destabilisation could have repercussions on our continent itself, in the form of mass population displacements. ethiopia is the key to regional balance, a vital link in this very sensitive region where conflicts are compounded: the struggle between the two sudanese states, the ethnic war in south sudan, the dictatorship in eritrea, the anarchy in somalia and the numerous massacres committed by islamists, especially the shebabs, not to mention the question of the nile waters which seriously poison relations with egypt. if we are to refrain from taking sides in this war and from interfering in the internal affairs of the country, we must work for stability in the region by offering our humanitarian and diplomatic resources, particularly to displaced persons. we must welcome the great step taken two years ago when ethiopia ended the conflict with eritrea. if the central state fails to maintain a minimum of cohesion among the mosaic of peoples that make it up, the country will split up as was the case with yugoslavia. beyond this, europe must keep a watchful eye on the geopolitical upheavals taking place in mozambique and suez and defend its interests against pressure from regional and international actors.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the carbon adjustment mechanism at the border. it is a key element in the arsenal we have to fight climate change. this is a key element because we are going to reform the carbon market, it is planned for june. the price of carbon is now 40 euros per tonne of co2, which is already a historic level, and we are aiming for 50 euros, maybe even 60 euros per tonne of co2. and at this price level, it is impossible for the european industrialists concerned to compete with economic players who would pay zero euros on co2. i cannot go to the steelworks of arcelormittal in dunkirk in northern france and say: you will lose markets because the indians or the turks will export without paying the price of carbon to the european union. i cannot go to poland and tell the workers of a cement factory: now your job is over because in belarus or ukraine we will produce the cement we need, and they will pay zero euro for carbon. it's not possible. that is why we demand, commissioner, that you do not disappoint us in june. and what does "not disappoint us" mean? this means a very simple method, a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders that is the mirror of the european carbon market. no tax, tax, that is unanimity, which means probably no mechanism at the end. not a tax paid by consumers, a tax paid by manufacturers who export to the european union. so, make no mistake, above all, about the legal tool; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. even pascal lamy, the former director of the wto, justifies it. and so, do not be fooled by having a bad horse, a bad legal tool, follow the recommendations which, i have no doubt, will be widely adopted this week by the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not climate protection is no longer a european task, and has long since ceased to be. climate change can only be achieved globally, and everyone should be aware of this. to curb global co2 emissions, we need a fundamental change, and the carbon cap mechanism - cbam - is a very important part of that. but only if it's handled properly. the current european emissions trading scheme (ets) has made a lower contribution than expected. under the paris climate agreement, we're supposed to hit the reset button, but with ets in its current form, it's not even the pause button! so we need a basic approach, and cbam gives us the opportunity to do that right here, based on a life cycle analysis that gives a more accurate picture of the ecological footprint. but free allocation certificates under ets and cbam side by side will not work! the cat's clearly biting its tail. since we need global action, cbam could tackle exactly where the ets is failing: a wto-compatible approach could help us achieve global acceptance while preventing the exodus of our own industry. the commission will only be able to use the instrument if unnecessary red tape is avoided and the administrative burden reduced. the revenue from the new mechanism should be used for climate action both inside and outside the eu. but consumers must not take the shortcut either. if cbam leads to price increases in consumer goods, consumers must be relieved of the burden by appropriate measures.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's climate policies are facing a major dead end. our climate targets only take into account our territorial emissions. our imported emissions, as well as those from international trade, are completely ignored. yet we are responsible for them, because they contribute to the functioning of our societies. the creation of a carbon border adjustment mechanism is therefore justified. it could be a first step towards the establishment of the ecological protectionism and solidarity that is so necessary today. but the mechanism proposed here is based on a very bad idea: the extension of the european union's carbon market, whose inefficiency has been demonstrated on many occasions, including by the european court of auditors. the carbon market must be replaced by a sectoral climate policy and long-term financing. binding greenhouse gas reduction targets must be planned for each industrial sector, incorporating of course imported emissions. the logic of markets must be replaced by social and ecological taxation at the borders of the european union. moreover, to be effective, such a mechanism must include emissions from the transport of goods, which is not the case here. contrary to what was planned, it must cover all imports, in particular agricultural imports, which are largely responsible for the eu's ecological footprint. the proposal on the table therefore tackles a real question, but it answers it with the wrong instrument. because in the face of the climate emergency, market logic is not part of the solution, but part of the problem.
mr president, commissioner gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the carbon cap system was on the agenda of most of our 2019 campaigns, and that's a good thing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. cbam can clearly contribute to this goal if we tackle it properly. we must now be careful to shoot the right bird and not endanger half the biotope of our european industry. it is not in the interest of climate neutrality to shift production to third countries. i cannot and will not support such a 'not in my backyard' policy. such a nimby policy, mr jadot, would only please the chinese state enterprises. i hope that's not your intention. therefore, it is a top priority for me that cbam and the existing free allocations under the eu ets of the eu run parallel in our path to climate neutrality for the time being. such an approach could effectively and intensively counter carbon leakage. this would give our industry the planning certainty it needs and would preserve jobs. such an approach would give our european climate policy a global edge. and doing that would bring us a good deal closer to climate neutrality.
mr president, although the eu has taken action to reduce its own climate emissions in the last decades, unfortunately the same cannot be said about the climate emissions that are imported into this union. in fact, the union is the world’s largest carbon importer, with a net import of goods and services in the eu representing more than a fifth of the union’s domestic co2 emissions. obviously, this undermines the important work that we are doing to reduce our own emissions. the introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism, also known as the cbam, can be a valuable addition to the efforts to reduce emissions and at the same time ensure that the responsibility to halt climate change is shared by all the actors. this is about europe showing leadership and doing what’s right, both for the climate as well as for the transition to a climate-neutral and more sustainable future. if we do this right, the cbam can be a great asset, both for the climate as well as for the economic incentive to develop production methods with lower co2 emissions and a smaller greenhouse gas footprint. but we must avoid duplication of support mechanisms. for the s&d group, it’s of central importance that the cbam does not overlap with the existing provision of free allocation of emission allowances under the union’s emissions trading system. it would be unjustified from a climate perspective, but also actually detrimental to innovation and technological development in europe, if we were to create a double support. so let’s not do that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not only building a green europe, but we are also building a europe which respects itself. a few years ago, many people laughed at those who wanted to charge for the import of ultra-carbon products. but this idea, the pro-europeans carried it and refused to make it a new sea serpent, which only the most idealistic would have carried in their hearts. let's see what we have. it took more than a decade! more than a decade to get a simple idea accepted: we cannot boast of being the champions of ecology and at the same time let china, the world's factory, have our continent full of cheap and polluted steel. the old europe, open to all the four winds, naive in its globalization, is dying. what we are about to witness, what we are participating in today, is the emergence of a europe that is a leader: a europe that respects the planet at home and soon at home. finally, this mechanism will be green from collection to expenditure because this money will be used to repay the stimulus plan. this is the stimulus plan that will kick-start europe's green growth for good. commissioner, with this vote we are demanding nothing more or less than the end of climate dumping. and one thing is certain: we meps will be extremely vigilant.
mr president, commissioner, the european union wants to be the laboratory for testing the environmental agenda. it is always looking to export its model and add constraints to constraints. the proof of this is its willingness to impose a global price on carbon, even though it accounts for less than 10% of emissions. the european union now seems to be taking stock of the damage caused to its industry by its controversial initiatives such as the green pact. the figures speak for themselves: the climate neutrality target for 2050 could lead to a 23% increase in carbon leakage in france. it is therefore time to defend our interests by restoring a level playing field. however, this carbon adjustment mechanism at the border has to pass a double test. first, technical, through the reform of the carbon market and the calculation of the carbon footprint of imported products; and then legal, through the wto agreement. but when we declare a climate emergency, we pay little attention to these rules, which are very circumvented. on the contrary, we must reform them and bring them into line with climate criteria while supporting the relocation of our industries. finally, to be sustainable, the mechanism must not be used to finance the energy transition in developing countries or to constitute a new federalist instrument. the revenue generated must be redistributed to the member states and not become yet another green third world fund or be converted into own resources.
mr president, commissioner, 25 billion euros is the profit made by polluting companies in europe simply by reselling the carbon allowances they now receive for free. we're stepping on the head. pollution is no longer just allowed, it is profitable. and the consumer is still drinking because he is already paying the bill, while his health and environment are not protected. 25 billion between 2008 and 2015 alone. and the added burden is only increasing at the expense of the climate, our health and our environment. it's time this stopped. and the good news with this proposal is that the european parliament is about to vote on it. this is a battle we have been fighting as environmentalists for years. we are calling for an end to the polluting rights which are now being distributed free of charge via the european carbon market. co2 emissions must be paid for at the price they really cost, i.e. a price that takes into account the impact of pollution on our planet, on the air we breathe. of course, our industries and the jobs they represent must not be penalized, including those at arcelormittal in my former town near dunkirk, dear pascal. nor must they be the only ones paying the true price of carbon. what we want is the establishment of a green protectionism which is environmentally and socially virtuous. it is simple, we propose that imports be taxed at the same carbon price as our european industries; those coming from china, mr hansen, as elsewhere. it is a fair and efficient mechanism. it is to impose environmental standards on all countries that wish to import into europe, which protect the whole climate; it is to encourage and accelerate the transformation of the most polluting industries, throughout europe and elsewhere. it's about protecting our jobs, our health and the planet. that's the ecology of desire. this is what a post-carbon society is.
madam president, i’d like to say thank you very much for this report, and i’m a bit surprised by the discussion that we are hearing. every time we are saying the best method is putting a price on pollution, then you can reduce the pollution levels. we have put that in place within the eu through an ets system. what we are proposing here is to do that also for products that we are importing. it’s fairer and secondly, it’s also providing an incentive for our global partners to reduce their emissions, and that’s how it should be done. but then, of course, there is a link with the free allocation of allowances that we are giving within the eu. you can’t support inside and give free allowances there and then let our global partners pay for it. so it is linked. and the report has been drafted with a very careful balance there, with the agreement of the epp. and now suddenly they scream that it’s the worst thing to have. did they not read the report before? you were part of the compromise, so stick to it. and this is to the commission: you are now looking for your fit for 55 package. of course, i think it’s going to be very important to really look at the broad scope of the cbam and not to be very minimalistic because this can provide you with a lot of the own resources that you are looking for. so please look at this in a broad way so that we can have a fair system where not only european partners are paying for the pollution but also our global partners, for a fair market.
madam president, for many months during the european elections campaign, we have been advocating relentlessly, together with my colleagues françois-xavier bellamy and nathalie colin-oesterlé, the creation of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders. we have defended it with conviction because we are absolutely convinced that the ecological transition must be as fair as possible to be achievable. but who is behind the ever-increasing environmental standards we are voting for here in this institution? mostly on our producers, our industrialists and our farmers... they are the ones who face the full force of competition from cheaper products, which have been designed in countries with much higher emission levels than ours. what right then do we have to ask them to do more if we are not able to protect them? this adjustment mechanism is therefore indispensable. it is at the heart of the green deal and will be an additional tool in our climate diplomacy. as with any new measure of a large scale, it naturally involves a share of the unknown. and the wto rules, which are essential, leave us little room for manoeuvre. but the report which will be presented to us tomorrow is balanced and provides a solid basis on which the european commission can base its legislative proposal. that is why i urge you to support him.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe is set to be a climate-neutral continent by 2050. this is a major challenge, especially for energy-intensive industries such as the steel industry. the commission will also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environmentally friendly production of energy from renewable sources. the key point is to prevent carbon leakage. for example, cheaper imports of steel with higher co2 content cannot displace more expensive domestic steel products with lower co2 emissions. to do this, we need a carbon border adjustment that creates a level playing field and ensures that large-scale industrial investments to switch to climate-neutral production do not become a competitive disadvantage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind. only when an effective carbon border adjustment is in place can these allowances be gradually reduced. not before! however, this is also part of the truth, and it is inevitable afterwards, because otherwise it would not be compatible with the wto.
the eu has been the first in the world to set up an emissions trading system, and we can be quite proud of that. i am less proud of the billions of euros in free emission allowances for industry. that support is understandable, but it is essentially throwing money at companies in the hope that they will stay. this defensive strategy is not sustainable. it is time for an aggressive and assertive climate policy. it is also time to stop being naive towards china or, for example, the united states, which are not embarrassed to impose high tariffs on steel from our factories. we can do that with this co2 adjustment mechanism. we're creating a level playing field for our companies, we're cutting the billions in free emissions allowances, and we're putting more money into european and international climate finance. that is a win on three fronts and it allows europe to really make a real job of an ambitious climate policy.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, dear colleagues, as we will be voting for the wto-compatible eu carbon border adjustment mechanism report, it is important to remember that the establishment of this mechanism is a crucial part of the green deal and among the priorities of the von der leyen commission. cbam could be used as a blueprint for a level playing field between eu domestic and foreign producers in specific segments of our industry, which face unfair competition from third countries, especially regarding compliance with environmental criteria and climate objectives. i would like to call all colleagues to vote in favour of the amendment of paragraph 28 proposed by the ppe, which managed to strike a balance between pragmatics and ambition in order to address our green deal targets. we must ensure that the implementation of the carbon border adjustment mechanism will not undermine european industry capacity, yet that it will also not overlap with existing mechanisms and will be compatible with the wto. the european parliament should send a clear message that the commission should come forward with its proposal for the carbon border adjustment mechanism. it should be a message of realism in the spirit of compromise with the widest possible support from all political groups supportive of the european green deal. otherwise, we will not only risk compromising our industry, but also our role as global pioneers in the green deal transition and in tackling climate change.
i have to say, madam president, in order to reach our goal of climate neutrality by 2050, we need to look at all the tools in our toolbox, both new and old. the commission's proposal for a co2 tariff mechanism is a new tool, but for it to be not only new but also useful it must meet two conditions: it must not become protectionist and it must not lead to a double standard or double exemptions. european companies should not move their polluting production out of the eu and then send their products back to our market. this is the kind of carbon leakage we need to stop. but we must not go the other way either, and opt for a protectionist instrument which unnecessarily restricts trade. the new co2 tariff must therefore be compatible with the wto, but we must also look at the existing instruments. no company should be punished twice or rewarded twice because new and existing rules overlap. let's look at it together.
madam president, europe not only has the obligation to lead the world in implementing the paris agreement and this process of decarbonisation, it also has the obligation to drag the rest of the world into this process: it must be remembered that in europe alone we generate 8% of emissions and, of course, we share the ozone layer. to do that, let's use one of our tools, our market, and introduce a carbon border adjustment that allows the rest of the planet to be dragged along, but, at the same time, let's introduce negative environmental externalities into the price of products, making these incentives and disincentives work in our favor to combat climate change. and not only that, we also protect our industry, which is not caught up in unfair environmental competition with foreign imports. for the sake of our industry, for the sake of our planet, this report will take a step towards putting in place the carbon border adjustment that europe needs.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals. our economy is still facing major challenges. the impact of the coronavirus pandemic is a strain on our businesses, and at the same time, of course, our ambitious climate targets are putting more pressure on domestic industry. carbon leakage is a very real threat until other economic regions reach a level of climate protection comparable to that of the european union. we cannot leave our companies to deal with this danger alone. it is too simplistic to believe that the compensatory limit mechanism is a panacea. an export economy needs access to global markets, and we also need global cooperation. other economic regions will respond if we introduce carbon border adjustment mechanisms. we have tried and tested mechanisms to support our economy, which we must not now, under any circumstances, question. a reduction in the free allocations under the ets when the compensation mechanism is introduced would punish our industry, our companies, twice. we must work globally for an international emissions trading system and thus achieve a fair price. i 'll summarize again . i think we really must not question our established mechanisms; we need to engage with other economic regions of the world and engage in climate diplomacy. and we need a proper impact assessment that also takes into account the trade implications.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in some ways, europe is a leader in the green transition, but in other ways, we are the worst. for example, we in europe import the most carbon dioxide in the world. no matter how well we succeed in reducing our emissions at home, we still have emissions in the rest of the world that we cause through our consumption. secondly, it is extremely positive that we are now taking a step towards a climate tax on imported goods. it's the missing piece of the puzzle in our climate work. it is a tool that can provide competitive advantages for european companies that have an ambitious approach to their climate work, but also an extended incentive to other parts of the world usa, china, brazil. an incentive to expand their climate policy so they don't have to pay the climate taxes. this is something that we greens voted for, and i am proud that we have now made progress on this issue.
madam president, the eu, and particularly this house, have been very active and ambitious in terms of climate change action, and we have already substantially reduced our domestic greenhouse gas emissions. however, emissions from imports have been rising, which affects any effort we make to reduce our global ghg footprint. most countries claim to have a serious plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions, but the eu actually has one: a one trillion euro european green deal that aims to make us carbon neutral by 2050. this brings us to the introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism at our external borders. european leadership in climate action – leadership that benefits citizens across the globe – should not be to the detriment of our competitiveness. the cbam seeks to protect european companies from unfair competition from non-european climate polluters who operate in countries with less stringent standards. however, the transition must not destabilise our economy by reducing our competitiveness, leading to carbon leakage. finally, i believe that we must remain very cautious when phasing out current measures of the ets that prevent co2-intensive industries from relocating their production to outside the eu. the eu system of free allowances and cbam must work simultaneously. that’s what we have to do.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, the decision to introduce the border mechanism is a decision which is rightly rooted in the need to protect european businesses in a market which does not always appear to be fair. we have business partners who refuse to abide by those environmental protection rules that we have continued to abide by, despite the severe crisis caused by the pandemic. today the world's largest steel producer, china, increased its steel market share by another 6% in the year 2020. europe has lost 17% of its share and meanwhile carbon quotas cost from 22 euros a tonne a year and a half ago to 40 euros today and in a year, a year and a half, they will go to 60 euros. it is correct to call this an environmental protection measure, but it is correct to consider that we are losing hundreds of thousands of jobs. and so it is true, speaking from this podium, as we have done since the covid that we no longer speak from there but we speak from here, has increased the rhetoric rate of the speeches a bit, mr commissioner. however, we have a responsibility to the weakest and we must reiterate to the weakest that europe is the continent that produces best and with the best environmental performance. let us not belittle this development model.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think this debate is encouraging because of the large convergence on the need for the instrument we are discussing: the cbam is absolutely needed to promote the climate transition to avoid carbon leakage and to support, of course, competitiveness and jobs. i am quite confident that the impact assessment that is ongoing will help us on the fine-tuning of the design of the mechanism – which is, of course, a new mechanism, on the sectors that will be involved gradually since the beginning and then enlarging in the next years, and also on the timing of the introduction of the new rules and on the phasing-out of aspects of existing rules. we know that we have a target which is 2023 in the interinstitutional agreement. so i think that we have a good basis on the fact that this issue is now on the global agenda. it was not the case one year ago. it was completely unthinkable to have some of the main trade powers discussing a carbon border mechanism or carbon tax or other things, and in this global debate the european union has the advantage of the early movers, which is the advantage of trying to give a contribution to set new standards. i think that we will give this contribution and this will help us on this historic challenge of the climate transition.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow and the final vote on wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. we all have a common interest in making europe's climate policy more effective, in promoting the green transition and in avoiding the risk of coal leakage. the mechanism for adjusting co2 emissions at the border can be useful in achieving these objectives. in order to contribute effectively to the objectives, the new instrument must meet three conditions. the new mechanism should have as its primary objective the protection of european businesses and industry. regulations are needed that make polluters, not people, pay for the consequences of harmful activities. it's the cornerstone of a just transition. it is also essential that the new mechanism is developed in the form of a structure that operates in parallel with the eu emissions trading system, complementing and strengthening existing instruments. the mechanism shall not affect the free allocation scheme. in order to avoid trade conflicts, the new instrument should be in line with the rules of the world trade organisation and with the international commitments of the european union. finally, due care and caution is required in the design of the mechanism. the european commission should therefore carry out thorough impact studies, broken down by industry, and consult industry stakeholders. a hasty regulation, pushed by the european left, would put hundreds of businesses and thousands of jobs at risk, which would have disastrous economic effects as well as undermine the social acceptance of the green transition.
in writing. the eu has set itself rigorous targets to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. emissions leakage, i.e. the shifting of production and therefore co2 emissions beyond the eu's borders to countries with less stringent regulations, would defeat these objectives and therefore not reduce global co2 emissions. such actions by importers are damaging to the union economy by undermining its competitiveness. importers should be covered by similar co2 emission costs based on the value of the emission allowances that the average european producer has to buy under the eu ets. in addition, the implementation of a cbam would put significant pressure on our non-eu partners to implement more ambitious climate policies. i support provisions maintaining free allowances in the eu ets for, among others, the sectors that will be covered by cbam (i.e. steel, cement) and including the fertiliser sector in the cbam list.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by sven giegold, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation (com ((2020) 0314 c9-0213/2020 2020/0148 cns)) (a9-0015/2021).i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. europe is full of funny-sounding, complicated terms. the seventh directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation is a classic example of this. the tax systems are national, whereas our market is already european and often global. this difference has long been exploited by tax evaders, tax avoiders and tax evaders. europe is taking the lead here with the directive on administrative cooperation in tax matters to ensure that these opportunities for tax evasion and avoidance worth billions are reduced. it is therefore good that digital platforms are now also included in the area of european tax cooperation. more and more sales are being made through amazon, ebay, airbnb. it is simply a requirement of fair competition that transactions carried out there also be effectively reported to the tax authorities of the taxpayers. this directive brings european tax cooperation into the digital age. the european commission has also proposed a number of further improvements to the six existing directives. it is a good commission proposal that we have here and i am grateful that it has been accepted in this parliament and i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have helped to make suggestions here to make this commission proposal even better. the problem with the commission's proposal is less what is in it and more what is not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with the exception of the id group, all the groups have participated in this work in a constructive way and with the same objectives, and i am very pleased about that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also want more transparency on where tax cooperation actually works. and we also want the data that is exchanged to be able to be used not only for tax purposes, but also to be able to be used more effectively in the area of anti-money laundering and also in other forms of crime prevention. it should be taken for granted that we cooperate fully in the area of financial crime. the european court of auditors recently issued a report on the same directive, and found that there are major problems that have not been addressed so far. in particular, the quality of the data is not sufficient and there are no sanctions for those who have to provide the data in the area of automatic exchange of information in order to encourage them to implement the directive perfectly and adequately. it is also unclear how well the data is actually being used. there is therefore a need for further improvement in the area of this directive. it would also have been easier to have left out the smaller platforms in the digital platforms area, as the oecd had originally proposed, and we would have achieved the same tax revenue with less red tape. it is therefore good that the eighth reform of this directive is coming soon, this time with a major focus on crypto-assets. this is urgently needed and is being worked on at international level. but i want to be very clear: the many limitations, including this good directive, show that we have to go further. the coronavirus crisis has left public coffers empty. at the same time, we need a great deal of investment for the future. we can no longer afford the cross-border tax evaders, tax evaders and aggressive tax avoiders. also, the companies that suffered greatly in the corona crisis can no longer afford the unfair competition from companies that do not want to pay their contribution. i therefore ask the commission to take advantage of the revision of this directive in its eighth version to present a comprehensive package so that tax cooperation can really work across borders. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the taxation of savings income in the event of tax evasion. i would like to conclude by saying that the council has already taken its position. unfortunately, he has decided not to take parliament's position into account. it is therefore all the more important that the commission now takes our proposals seriously, which we hope will be adopted by a large majority, and that we then really work together on a strong regime in the eighth revision of the directive. the whole process shows how urgently we need to reach majority decisions in the tax field.
member of the commission. – madam president, this dac7 is a very good step forward in terms of information exchange. it goes even further than the oecd rules. of course, the number dac7 shows that we are proceeding step by step with the support of parliament. and i appreciate the diligent and strong work done by parliament in reviewing the proposal and your commitment on the file. the amendments you propose touch upon important issues for the commission. we share their principles and their objectives. and you know that we will address them in the coming steps, or will try to. i think with your support we can do this. allow me to say a few words on this proposal at the beginning of the debate. we agree on the importance of automatic exchange of information in as many categories as possible. at the same time, we know that member states may not all collect information on all categories of income at the moment. they should thus be given sufficient time to adjust to the expanded categories of income. the proposal to add an obligation for a financial institution to report information on the ultimate beneficial owner of the account would increase the usefulness of the information reported and help to identify the beneficial ownership. it is a very significant amendment. i think it could be addressed in a future amendment of the directive. we agree with you on the need for an adequate level of investment in it, digital infrastructure and professional training. member states should ensure that they provide the necessary it, financial and human resources, and the commission stands ready to support member states with their needs. let me underline that many of the amendments proposed by parliament could also be taken into account in a possible future legislative proposal amending the dac. the commission will especially look into further improvements in the exchange of information with respect to financial accounts, cross-border ruling and advanced pricing arrangements, and penalties and compliance measures. with respect to the penalties and compliance measures, my services are preparing a comprehensive framework that will ensure the effective application of dac7 that will be proposed as part of the next amendment, dac8, which is scheduled to be proposed towards the end of this year. we are also counting on the support of the european parliament in view of this future revision of the directive.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 1 to 2% is what companies like airbnb pay in taxes on average, whether in italy, spain or in a country like my own, france, where restaurants and hotels will be taxed at national level between 15% and 25%. each time, the process is the same: airbnb bills its customers, its rental activity in other countries, in the uk and ireland for example, and makes sure to declare in france only its marketing-type activities, which allows it to declare extremely low income and therefore to be taxed extremely low, there too. in fact, all platforms work the same way, whether it's uber, airbnb, etc. hence the need for the work we are doing now, and hence the importance of having integrated digital platforms into this directive on the exchange of information because if these platforms are part of the daily lives of europeans, they must also comply with the rules of europeans and this starts with a stupid thing called tax transparency. so, of course, there is still a long way to go, but we can welcome the work that is being done at european level at the moment and that will continue to be done on the question of tax transparency, tax cooperation and, in the long term, we hope, tax justice. the europeans are waiting for us and they deserve it.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, every year hundreds of billions of euros are lost from the public purse because of money laundering, tax evasion, tax fraud, tax avoidance. the reason for this enormous loss is the ineffective european cooperation in combating economic crime. the european parliament calls for more rapid steps to be taken towards this effective cooperation. and the citizens are asking for it. 63% of citizens want stronger european cooperation and a stronger role for the european parliament. the commission must cooperate with parliament to make this cooperation a reality, because there are governments in the council which support non-cooperation to promote the interests of tax havens within the european union; and that is unacceptable.
madam president, more and more people generate their income online via uber, airbnb and other online platforms. with the latest dac revisions, the eu rules have caught up, finally, and have closed a tax gap worth billions of euros each year. but how long has uber benefited, and how long airbnb, and what damage did that do to those taxi companies and hotels that do pay taxes? we should not allow unfair competition, clear inequalities and missing revenue but we do, because when fighting tax avoidance, the council takes baby steps. every member state can block or delay proposals. moreover, decisions are made behind closed doors and the council is uncooperative since it refuses even to take into account parliament’s position, and it refuses to share data that is needed to monitor the status quo, so parliament is frustrated in doing its job. it’s time that the council realised that fighting tax avoidance requires public transparency. it’s about transparency towards taxpayers, sharing data with tax administrations and in public records, but also about the transparency of tax policies, showing who proposes what and who opposes what, so that national and european parliaments can fulfil their democratic duty. with public transparency and accountability, it will become very clear that baby steps are just not enough, and it’s time to grow up and leap forward to a fairer economy.
i have to say, madam president, fincen files, openlux - all these tax scandals - show us how badly we need a modern, transparent tax system. because in a world where businesses operate globally, national tax systems alone cannot be the answer. now, especially, states need enormous amounts of public money to fund a crisis-resistant health care system, to rebuild the economy for both women and men, so that it is gender-equitable. and we can get that money, of course, from big companies that owe billions in taxes to the states. i am firmly convinced that such a tax system is possible if states work together better. and that's why it's so important to include digital platforms like uber, google and netflix in the sharing of tax information. but i want to point out that it needs appropriate data, it needs trained personnel, so big and not baby steps. let us actively shape this modern, transparent, efficient and fair european tax policy.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members. yes, with this dac7 we are mainly imposing new reporting rules on platform operators in order to have clarity on the income of the sellers that use these platforms. i think this is a new step forward. if we compare this to, for example, the oecd level, this confirms a more advanced eu transparency. but we know very well that, at the same time, tax avoidance is ever more sophisticated at global level and also in europe. and so while declaring my personal satisfaction with this debate and with the support for the directive, i am absolutely sure that we need further steps, and i think that with your support these further steps will be possible.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow and the final vote on wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. i fully support the proposal on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. the development of digital platforms and their use for different transactions requires the adaptation of eu legislation accordingly. this report covers taxable transactions which were not previously covered by the legislation. the proposed changes will provide member states and their competent authorities with mechanisms to control taxable transactions and facilitate cross-border issues. the directive will promote more effective transparency and control of online transactions. i call on my colleagues to support this proposal and to extend the eu tax transparency rules.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by ms lara wolters, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on corporate due diligence and corporate accountability. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens who elected us can no longer do that. they've had enough. enough of this system that allows the richest and most powerful to go unpunished. enough of this exploitation of the weak and the despoiling of our planet. enough to see their politicians, their representatives flattened by financial interests. enough of nike, zara and so many other multinational corporations making money off the backs of uyghur slaves. enough of 30 years of offshoring and racing to the bottom at the lowest cost of production. they've had enough and they're right. ladies and gentlemen, the text we are about to vote on here is a response to their anger. it is a real legal revolution. european legislation on the duty of vigilance of companies responds to a simple, basic idea: multinationals must be legally responsible for their entire production chains. so far, this has not been the case. today, zara or nike are not responsible for anything because they don't produce anything themselves. their suppliers can happily violate human rights or destroy the environment without being held accountable to anyone. this must stop and it will stop the day these behemoths face justice in europe for crimes committed on their production lines in africa or asia. we must ask ourselves, colleagues, what are we doing here? why are we here? are we here to serve the interests of volkswagen or sanofi, or are we here to serve the general interest and human rights? europe is the world's largest market, the world's largest trading power, and here we have the means to change the game on a global scale. if we decide to, we can. so together, it's time to decide.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, 6,500 people died on the world cup construction sites where vinci works. 790,000 children are enslaved to produce nestlé's cocoa. at least one million uighur women and men to harvest nike cotton and assemble apple phones in chinese internment camps. mcdonald's, which profits from the deforestation of thousands of acres in the amazon. why is the european union so firm in cutting our public health spending, but unable to condemn the systematic crimes of multinationals? with the duty of vigilance we are voting today, we want to put an end to this organised crime which exploits people and the environment. we will prevent multinational companies from delegating the dirty work to their opaque subsidiaries and their fraudulent suppliers with impunity. with the duty of vigilance, the doors of the courts will be open to victims seeking redress. it's just the first step in taking back control from these giants of money who think they're above the law. but it is already a great victory for human rights and the environment. a victory we're taking from the bosses and their lobbyists who've been scrambling to steal it from us. we are getting it from businesseurope and medef, who have come to brussels to do the cac 40's low-level work, and we are getting it above all thanks to the tireless mobilisation of associations, citizens and a few elected officials determined to put the interests of the people before that of money. this victory is a scathing reminder to multinationals: you will not dictate the law to states and citizens, because, as a citizen mobilization on social networks in france in favor of the duty of vigilance reminded: who commands? it's us, and it's certainly not the lobbyists.
mr president, we know from research, but also from experience, that respect for human rights and minimum environmental standards are still very often trampled underfoot in our production processes and in our value chains. we also know that business leaders and companies very often don't know or ignore what's going on in their production and in their value chains. so we need to change things quickly. and all credit to lara wolters, who, with a strong report, is putting forward a horizontal mandatory legislation. and it should be clear that compliance with that legislation must be a condition for products to be able to enter our market. and therein lies the link to international trade: make sure there's a level playing field. and let me give the example of china our group wants to be clear about that : having a horizontal duty of care legislation will be a precondition before we can discuss whether we have a good investment agreement with china.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to establish a duty of vigilance. the duty of vigilance is to defend social rights, to protect the future of the planet, to guarantee democratic freedoms. as we speak, several hundred children are still working for the european market, 80,000 uighur men and women are allegedly victims of forced labour, 10% of the deforestation in the world is caused by european consumption. some european companies, on the other hand, continue to invest in fossil fuels or dangerous pesticides, to the detriment of the climate, biodiversity, our health and the safety of the planet. the establishment of the duty of vigilance is a reminder of a simple truth: we cannot produce anything, in any way, whatever the human, social and environmental cost. forced labour, predation, and the hoarding of resources must end. on this 8th of march, let us also remember that we cannot defend the rights of women without defending the rights of workers and peasants everywhere oppressed by the law of profit. let us no longer let finance dictate our laws: let us adopt this ambitious european duty of vigilance, we can, we must, and we will.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every year in france 100 000 social housing units are built. every year, france receives 100,000 asylum applications and 200,000 legal migrants, not to mention 40,000 isolated minors, most of whom are neither minors nor isolated, the equivalent of a city like strasbourg arriving every year. so we build more and more and more and more and more. we can't be happy about that. the europe of cathedrals and beautiful stones has become the europe of concrete and mosques. our cities are being disfigured and our churches are being torn down to make way for parking lots and low-cost supermarkets. it takes courage to say that some suburbs in france are overcrowded and that we do not need the arrival of additional non-european populations. today, these population movements are transforming the environment, as is the shift from the countryside to the cities, for example. however, this report on construction products, since it is necessary to talk about it, i will vote for it because i am in favour of product reliability and safety above all. there are far too many products falsely labelled ce on the european market. we are in favour of clear noise standards, environmental protection and above all the safety of the 18 million workers involved in the construction of europe. the world's leading manufacturer of building materials, lafarge of france, has been sold to the swiss. another bad point to emmanuel macron's passive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures presented today on the employment situation of people with disabilities are chilling. they are proof of your lack of concern for the most vulnerable among us: those who have had the misfortune to be born with disabling pathologies or those who, over the years, have lost a significant part of their physical or mental abilities. the unemployment rate for disabled people is astronomical, at 17%. in europe there are 30 million blind and partially sighted people, 1 million deaf and hard of hearing people using sign language and 7 million mentally handicapped people. so i ask you: why continue to welcome economic migrants who take advantage of all the social benefits granted, who violate our borders, weigh down wages and for a certain number, become terrorists? i am emphasizing the double standard, because you are not doing anything for our disabled compatriots. but this cause deserves our action for our own before others.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, i agree with the rationalization of the investeu programme with a one-stop shop that should bring simplification and economies of scale. bringing together all centrally managed financial instruments in a single programme is a positive step forward in the transparency of expenditure financed from the eu budget. the programmes for the competitiveness of smes and the programme for employment and social innovation need to be supported in the current context. but the implementation of the programme in the new mff is being closely monitored in several respects. the commission will first need to exercise extreme caution when delegating the power to commit the union budget, potentially to a wide range of new partners. the commission's forecasts on the multiplier effect of the provisioned guarantee also need to be kept in mind, as investeu targets more risky innovative projects with smes focusing more on thematic sectors that require a larger budget. i therefore invite the commission to define a set of better performing indicators that realistically measure the expected results of budgetary guarantees and thus avoid double counting of direct and indirect support. the additionality, which was not always respected under the old programme, will clearly have to remedy market failures, investment gaps. the eu compartment is unclear and precise criteria are needed as a sub-optimal investment situation at eu level remains vague. lastly, a target of 30% of climate-related expenditure objectively seems to me unrealistic in the present times and difficult to quantify. i also noted that at least 60% of the total volume of financing operations for climate objectives will have to be carried out in sustainable infrastructure, which seems to me to be discriminatory for many projects. the proposal is still quite positive, but the acceding third countries should not be associated with it. it is not acceptable to include third countries as final beneficiaries, when we have just learned that the european temporary support instrument for the mitigation of unemployment risks was about to be abandoned by the commission. i believe that the size of the single market is sufficient in itself for the implementation of this programme and that cooperation with third countries is unfounded.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, the current health crisis has been an extraordinary awakening. the health programme 2021-2027 has enabled us to draw lessons from this crisis and to start building the european health union. the europe of health must first be the europe of anticipation, which we have so lacked. the programme will focus on prevention training and education in all areas, in particular chronic diseases. the europe of health will also have to be based on the sharing of information, the strengthening of networks of excellence, the coordination of cancer organisations, analyses by collecting massive data, cooperation on clinical trials. we will need to strengthen the missions and resources of the main health agencies. we will need above all to convince the member states to abandon any form of health nationalism. for our renew group, together with you, dear stella, and with commissioner breton, europe for health will have to support research and innovation faster and better, accelerate the group purchases of medicines, public-private partnerships in line with the dynamics already engaged for vaccines and thus prepare the future authority for responding to health crises. our group also argued for its vision of global health within an ecosystem of environmental protection and well-being to be defended in all european policies: labour, agriculture, transport. finally, the europe of health must be above all a europe of health in solidarity, of the fight against health inequalities between countries, it must take on the global dimension of its responsibility and continue, through the funding provided for the who under this programme, the aid mechanisms for third countries, particularly in africa, in particular for the prevention and detection of female cancers, as discussed with the committee on women's rights and gender equality. for all this, thank you, dear nico, for your fight: europe's health must have a budget and that is what we finally got in our negotiations with the council, more than five billion euros to protect the most precious asset of europeans and their allies: health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to alert you today to a vital health problem in two french departments, guadeloupe and martinique. do you realize that today, in 2021, fellow guadeloupeans and martiniquans do not have access to their tap water? this is happening in the outermost regions of europe, and as a caribbean, i cannot accept it. i would like the european institutions to give priority and particular attention to this serious health problem by providing funding and means of access to water for all these french departments. the outermost regions, particularly in france, must benefit from a major health plan for the period 2021-2027 on the basis of article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. today we are talking about a second very serious problem which has never been solved: the chlordécone scandal. so i think it is time to move beyond the question of acknowledging responsibility, now it is time to compensate and help all my fellow guadeloupeans and martiniquans who have suffered bodily harm and serious health problems such as cancer for decades. my dear colleagues, the human health of our compatriots overseas is in danger. the overseas departments should not be forgotten in this health plan, it is time to act to give equity in the field of health to all these distant territories that are often forgotten.
on behalf of the left group. other madam president, our main concern with this proposal for a control regulation is small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing. this fleet segment is facing a deep and protracted decline, which is inseparable from the effects of a fisheries policy and a centralised management of resources in the european union, which does not take into account the reality and diversity of the sector at european level, which produces guidelines with effects contrary to the stated objectives and which promotes the concentration of activity on the largest and economically strongest operators. this control regulation may contribute to aggravating this situation by laying down a set of obligations which represent a disproportionate burden for small-scale fisheries. the bureaucratic and technical complexity of control measures, which are not adapted to the reality of this sector, the characteristics of the fleet and the age of the operators, will represent an additional constraint, to which will be added more sanctions and an even greater centralisation of fisheries policy. reversing the decline in fisheries means breaking with the policy that generated it. this regulation, on the contrary, may accentuate the consequences of this policy.
madam president, mrs aguilera, the revision of the fisheries control regulation should be aimed at reducing bureaucracy and administrative and economic obstacles; the commission's proposal introduces obligations for small-scale vessels, such as having a tracking system, carrying an electronic fishing logbook and issuing a landing declaration, also electronic, ignoring the reality of the artisanal fleet, the costs and the bureaucratic burden. the big debate today is about the use of on-board cameras, and i think the fisheries committee's proposal is the most sensible. i would ask many of those who today want to put cameras on every ship if they would be willing to install cameras in their offices: why not? so why do we go after fishermen like they're criminals? once again, stop criminalizing the fishing industry; it is neither fair nor justified. the european fleet is the most controlled and respectful in the world, the data supports this. fish stocks are increasing significantly, and the people who monitor them report that violations are detected in about 5% of inspections. would this be possible if fishermen were not scrupulously following the rules? i most certainly do not. we want control, of course, but what we do not want and will not accept is any kind of dirty play, as the sector has denounced, or that, as the fishermen are the true guardians of the oceans, they are accused of the exact opposite.
madam president, commissioner, i would of course like to thank the rapporteur for her work and all those involved in this matter, which is of such importance. control file for the implementation of the common fisheries policy. it was time to modernise the regulation, as technology is advancing and we need to make more effective controls possible. many controversial issues have arisen in this revision. i shall mention only the cameras on board the vessels, the estimates of catches with tolerance margins, the monitoring of engine power, the digitisation of the controls of the smallest vessels, and so on. this review is a bit of a balancing act. on the one hand, the effectiveness of control must be strengthened to ensure sustainable management, but on the other hand, the economic competitiveness of the sector must be maintained. we must on the one hand digitise control and on the other ensure the fundamental freedoms of the crews. we need to tighten up some of the rules and at the same time ensure a certain flexibility to take account of the realities on the ground. ladies and gentlemen, i think there is an important point to keep in mind, which is that without the full understanding and full support of the fisheries sector, we will not achieve anything, and that is why we need relevant, proportionate and effective control, which is really about control. in this debate, i am naturally calling for moderation and not for positions of principle which will only result in us building up each other. i cannot help but mention the note sent by dg mare, which should also be the rule in exchanges between the institutions. the form of the proposal raises the question of whether dg mare, as it has been written, is acting as a lobby. in substance, apart from the questionable aspect of the technical arguments, this note is based on the assumption that first the fisheries committee acted wrongly and then the fishermen are guilty. i want to say, this is not acceptable.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after having been the adjustment variable in the disastrous brexit negotiations, our fishermen are now being subjected to absurd regulations which will only make it more difficult for them to do their job. small fishermen and small businesses will be particularly affected by these new controls and particularly affected by the political will to harass, which is perfectly embodied in the project to install on-board cameras. there are two weights, two measures. a double standard that allows factory ships to plunder our resources freely, while we prey on our small fishermen. there is a double standard which allows smugglers in the mediterranean to break the law with impunity, while our small fishermen are treated like criminals. finally, because the sovereignty of our territorial waters cannot be sold, there is no question of giving exorbitant powers to inspectors who will not have to answer to anyone. it is not without our fishermen or against them that we will protect this invaluable heritage and biodiversity, but with all the professionals of the sea and all the due respect for them. the fishermen are not the problem, they are the solution.
madam president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, without effective monitoring of scientific data, without a fight against overfishing, there can be no trust between the various member states. in short, no common fisheries policy. effective control is essential to protect fish stocks, but so is justice. i was speaking to a trawler in normandy a short while ago. with the position of fishing vessels only transmitted every hour, the largest trawlers have time to deviate from their course and go fishing in protected marine areas without being detected. this is of course impossible for a small fisherman who lays his nets for more than an hour. with more frequent transmission of their positions, all these fishermen will be on an equal footing and marine protected areas will finally be respected. i am concerned about some of the votes that have taken place in the committee on fisheries, where even as technology is improving, there are proposals to introduce absurd tolerance margins of up to 25%. this would lead to massive under-reporting of catches and render an entire part of the common fisheries policy ineffective. there is already a sufficient margin of tolerance of 10%. on this point, let us return to the commission's position.
madam president, commissioner, let me return to the astonishing expression you used earlier, when you said that to accept a margin of tolerance for tuna fishing in the indian ocean would be to accept tolerance for illegal fishing. but, commissioner, we are talking about legal fishing in european fisheries, which today complies with the most stringent environmental standards in the world. and it seems to me that fighting illegal fishing is exactly what we expect from the commission, that it really engages in a tug of war with countries like pakistan, like iran, like sri lanka, which still use driftnets that destroy biodiversity, that it engages in a tug of war with china, with india, european fishing in these waters of the indian ocean is 30% of the total fishing. it seems to me that behind this misunderstanding there is in fact a very broad and important subject. we will not succeed in preserving marine biodiversity, and that is our objective, by weakening european fisheries. if we want to continue to place ever more onerous constraints on our fishermen, if we want to stick cameras behind their backs, if we want to make their lives impossible, we will only favour imports, that is to say, fishing which does not respect our rules. is that what we want? i do not think so, commissioner.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sylvie guillaume, and in particular mrs emily o'reilly. the european ombudsman is so important to citizens' trust in the eu and her competent work has further strengthened the institution, although it is alarming that 23 per cent of her recommendations are not followed. for us greens - and i hear this from others - the clear criticism of the closeness of the council's work is of the utmost importance. european citizens and the press still cannot follow what their own governments are saying and voting on. the council should be as transparent as we in parliament are in our part of the legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but unfortunately, there are signs that her effective efforts are causing a lot of trouble for several governments. instead of correcting, they try to slow down the work. this is alarming. an example is the proposal to move the ombudsman away from brussels. unfortunately, that's been reported. all the main actors, both pro and con, are in brussels, and as recently as october both the council and parliament decided to improve working conditions and offices there in large numbers. it will make the job unreasonably difficult and expensive if she is forced to leave. i hope that the majority who are both in favour of stopping the journey and want an effective ombudsman will vote against article 50 with us greens.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr. speaker, i have to ask you a question. the institutions of the european union should maintain the highest possible level of transparency and objectivity. one of the complaints most often raised by citizens against the commission is precisely the lack of a democratic mandate and unclear internal procedures. the ombudsman's activities show that despite the declaration of readiness for change, there is still much to be done. this concerns the issue of conflict of interest, the difficulty of access to documents or the lack of a binding regulation on the existing code of good administrative behaviour. the cases of former and current commissioners' involvement in business activities are very exciting, and the ease with which the european institutions can be switched to business raises concerns about the objectivity of the decisions taken by officials. while this report is for 2019, it cannot ignore the concerns that have emerged during the coronavirus pandemic. i hope that the ombudsman will look carefully at all the allegations made against the european commission during this period, paying particular attention to the process of negotiating vaccine purchase agreements.
madam president, as a chief risk compliance officer, i worked in corporates for many years. everywhere people are mishaps occurs, fraud takes place and abuse of power is always lurking on the side. within the european institutions and the rest of the world this is common practice. if the eu wants to take a stand against atrocities worldwide, it must set an example by being transparent, responsible and accountable. the ombudsman plays an important role. unfortunately, the monitoring is not up to specs. we are discussing a report of 2019. far too little, far too late. in the corporate world this is not acceptable and it should not be acceptable in the eu. that is why i would like to invite the ombudsman to parliament on a regular monthly basis, in which context she will report on the amount and nature of cases and their follow-up. this will enhance accountability of all eu institutions and build trust among eu citizens.
madam president, let me start by congratulating emily o’reilly on her re-election and wish her all the successes for the second term as european ombudsman. e sabemos que o provedor de justiça desempenha um papel fundamental no nosso sistema institucional. ele é a ligação direta das instituições aos cidadãos e, usando meios informais, usando o soft power, ele é um garante dos direitos fundamentais dos cidadãos da união europeia. temos, por isso, de o proteger contra as tentações: a tentação de algumas instituições que querem limitar e impedir um mandato amplo, livre, por parte do provedor de justiça, e contra instituições, como agora acaba de dizer da minha colega, que querem controlar o provedor de justiça. o provedor de justiça não é responsável perante o parlamento. é independente de todas as instituições, e uma das formas de ser independente é a circunstância de não ser nem um procurador do ministério público, nem um juiz, nem um tribunal. a sua força reside na informalidade e na não vinculação das suas decisões. só dessa maneira garantiremos que os cidadãos estão em primeiro lugar na missão do provedor de justiça.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. 44%, the percentage of citizens who have confidence in the european union. not enough. and trust, it's not something you decree, it's something you build every day. each of us, each institution, must show responsibility. and the work you are doing, madam ombudsman, is essential: to make the european union more exemplary and to win more and more the trust of our fellow citizens and the european democratic process can only emerge strengthened from this. the conference on the future of europe will play a key role in giving european citizens a say in the actions of the european union. no subject should be excluded and everyone should be able to participate, this is essential for its success. participation also means transparency. transparency must therefore be developed in all our institutions and in all subjects. the example of trade negotiations is revealing: with brexit, a step has been taken with the publication of negotiating documents and calendars. but this level of transparency must be maintained for all our trade agreements, from mercosur to china. madam ombudsman, you can count on my support for your activities, access to documents, the fight against conflicts of interest and, above all, for the effective implementation of your recommendations, because participation and transparency must not be empty words. your work helps us to remember why and for whom we were elected. and this report also shows that you have the constant support of the european parliament.
madam president, people are tightening their belts all over europe. and at the same time, some people have their pants button explode, like jeff bezos, the ceo of amazon. since the arrival of covid-19 a year ago on our continent, entire sectors of the economy have been devastated, while for amazon, covid has been a jackpot that has been going on for months and months. during all those months when parts of europe were locked down, when shops were closed, all you had to do was go to amazon's website and get a nail polish or a dog collar delivered to you. for the past year, health policies have rolled out a red carpet to amazon and e-commerce. it is indecent that these companies are not participating in the collective effort to get out of the crisis. that is why i propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we introduce a compulsory european tax on all crisis profiteers. they are the big winners of this crisis, let's force them to finance the economic consequences.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr high representative, ten years. ten years of horror and suffering. ten years of a regime, that of bashar al-assad, slaughtering his people, imprisoning, torturing, starving, killing. because in the beginning, the war in syria is not a civil war, it is a war of a man and his system against those who do not agree with him. a war without mercy, where all means are good: chemical weapons, bombings, terror. it has become a war where terrorism has taken root, where daesh and others have caused countless syrian casualties and also hit europe. it became a war where european jihadists took part in heinous crimes. it became a war as millions of syrians fled to find refuge in europe and syria's neighboring countries. whether we like it or not, the syrian tragedy is our problem. so what did we do? at least, didn't we add suffering to suffering. at least unlike russia, iran, turkey, we did not go to syria to satisfy our thirst for power in defiance of international law. at least when the international coalition fights daesh, it does so with a un mandate. at least let us try to alleviate the suffering of the syrian people by welcoming millions of refugees and by playing our full part, first and foremost, in humanitarian aid to the martyred populations. but we have to do more, because the syrians are looking to us, they have hope in us. we must fight against impunity for war crimes and crimes against humanity in syria. some countries, france, germany and the netherlands, have begun to do so and i would like to commend them for their efforts. but i would like to ask you for more, mr high representative, to bring to the commission the promise of a much stronger, much more unanimous commitment from all over europe to ensure that criminals who have sometimes found refuge are prosecuted, that our justice systems work even better together, to help the victims and the syrian activists who are fighting for justice. in syria, there will be no peace without justice. there will be no return of syrian refugees to their homeland without the right of return to their country. so let's act for them and let's act for our values.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, (start of speech off the microphone)... in 2011 this parliament was ecstatic about the arab spring. he refused to distinguish between geopolitical manipulation, the dangers of islamist terrorism, the terrible effects of anarchy in this part of the world. in 2021, our parliament still refuses to face this record, and it is a terrible record. in syria, european taxpayers' money has been partly used or rather diverted to benefit islamist rebels. these rebels have murdered, remote-controlled bombings, generated unprecedented waves of migration. two countries have really benefited from the situation: mr erdoğan's turkey and the united states, through their oil companies, who illegally plunder the richest area of the country, the area where the oil is. this inconsistent policy has destabilised many countries such as iraq and lebanon. it is therefore urgent to support the voluntary return of syrian refugees in lebanon. with the caesar sanctions and the european sanctions, the syrians are starving. mr. borel, you said that earlier. 75 per cent of the population is undernourished, but today we bear a responsibility for this. i knew a year ago in damascus where everyone could eat. today, with the sanctions we have added, it is indeed a part of the population that is subject to famine. with the conflict being fixed by the turkish occupation of northeastern syria, nato is allowing a no-go zone to be established in defiance of international law. medicines, bank transfers, food, fuel - everything is missing for the syrian people because of the international sanctions. in syria, as elsewhere, democracy is not born under bombs, does not grow in islamism and does not bear fruit if it is manufactured from outside. let's not add a humanitarian crime to war crimes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed very worrying that i am returning from a mission to kurdistan. the assad regime has survived. the kurds are in a very difficult situation, the economy is destroyed and daesh is reorganizing and taking over space. yes, europe must be there. in the syrian camps, 600 european children have been held for more than three years. 200 french children, two-thirds of whom are under the age of six, and their mothers are held in denial of all our freedoms, of all the rule of law. 200 children and their mothers that we could not see because the president of the french republic emmanuel macron and the government want to keep them out of sight, want to continue to make them the invisible of the republic. we have a responsibility to act to coordinate a european response to this and to ensure that these children and women can finally be repatriated. when daesh attacks us, it is first of all to kill people, but it is also to attack our freedoms, our rule of law and our principles. every day we leave these children there will be a small victory granted to daesh and its terror.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, young people who are struggling to eat, the first workers to be laid off, employees who have been dismissed, public services that have dried up, but no, the european union has nothing to do with it. the priority for you is to keep your old recipes the same. i have to say, they've done so well in the face of the pandemic. the staff at overcrowded public hospitals are grateful for your recommendations to cut health care costs even further. i have looked into your text, but not once have you mentioned health, public service or cohesion. on the other hand, i found 34 times growth, 9 times competitiveness and above all 9 times 'structural reforms'. understand behind this jargon the classic european cocktail of liberal measures weakening the state to turn everything into a market. so you're not learning from past mistakes. worse, the pyromaniacs you are keep blowing on the embers. by linking the european recovery plan and its reforms, you are digging the grave of the welfare state. the perfect pretext for european leaders to justify their unjust reforms. emmanuel macron is taking the opportunity to bring out his reforms of unemployment insurance and pensions. while the richest hide their money with impunity in tax havens, the poorest drink. if you were as quick to go after tax evaders as you are to go after the unemployed and the retired, the tax lawyers would already be pointing to the employment office. you think the planet can burn, people can starve as long as the debt and deficits don't increase, that's not your problem. but people won't forget. you who are obsessed with numbers, don't be surprised that one day the nations will come to you to pay the addition.
madam president, it is now ten years since the european semester was launched, and it is time to take stock. never have the differences between the economies of the euro area been so profound. on the other hand, this semester will have very successfully fulfilled its objective of tying the hands of the states a little more, of confiscating their economic choices for the benefit of the european commission. during this crisis, the european union will have been the disunion of europe. at this very moment, your vaccine waterloo, the european union's incompetence in ordering vaccines and supplying them to the states, will have led more and more european countries to take matters into their own hands, like austria, hungary or poland. if you want more coordination within the european union, stop trying to force the hand of the states at all costs and instead devote your energy to proving your efficiency. the european commission requires that member states implement these structural reforms as part of the european semester in order to benefit from the funds of the next european recovery plan. this blackmail for the member states means, for my country, france, the reform of unemployment insurance, the liberalisation of public services and, of course, the reform of the pension system, at a time when precariousness is about to explode. what will france get in return for meeting all these requirements? in the best case scenario, a €4 billion handout by the summer, or the paltry 4% we need to fund an already under-sized recovery plan. the european union will have decidedly missed an opportunity to reconcile with the peoples.
madam president, commissioners, minister, 2021 will be the year of recovery and the european semester the instrument for coordinating our recovery policies. the three priorities i identified in october in our previous debate on the social aspects of the european semester remain relevant: the urgency of support policies, keeping the transitions on track and accelerating the european social agenda. national recovery plans accompanied by european funds will have to contribute to social justice, the fight against poverty and upward convergence. commissioner schmitt, you have published your action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. in it you propose strengthening the european semester, in particular the social dimension, and revising the monitoring indicators. these announcements are more than welcome. because now, more than ever, a new budgetary pact for social progress and the fight against climate change is needed. let's learn from this crisis, let's not repeat the mistakes of the 2008 financial crisis. today, more than ever, the priority is not budgetary austerity but investment and support for the most vulnerable, our businesses, our workers, whatever the cost. inclusion, convergence, social progress - these are the key words to guide the redesign of the european semester in the service of europeans and of the europe of social justice.
in writing. the economic downturn we are experiencing due to the covid-19 pandemic requires unprecedented measures to protect the health of citizens and combat unemployment, a direct consequence of the health crisis. according to eurostat, despite the optimistic economic recovery forecast for 2022, the unemployment rate within the european union is expected to increase further, from 7.7% in 2020 to 8.6% in 2021. yet ursula von der leyen and the european commission are pushing hard against the odds to promote a mass immigration policy, notably through the new pact on migration and asylum. the commission believes that a credible policy on legal migration and integration will benefit european societies and economies. the commission will launch talent attraction partnerships with key third countries, which will ensure a match between labour and skills needs in the eu. these are the miraculous measures recommended by the european commission! an ideological blindness that prevents you from seeing clearly... because, in the face of the ever-growing number of unemployed europeans, we cannot afford to take in these millions of economic migrants!
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months europe has failed miserably in dealing with the economic, social and health crisis triggered by the chinese virus. the commission has promised us millions of vaccines, but they have not arrived. the false promises in europe and the culpable delays in vaccines are costing millions of citizens and businesses dearly, very dearly: in one year of the pandemic in italy, 500,000 jobs have been lost, entire sectors of the economy are on their knees, millions of workers and families don't know how to make ends meet. in this tragic situation we are tired of seeing europe totally subservient to the pharmaceutical multinationals. president von der leyen, we have had enough of the power games that the multinationals are playing on our citizens, in the utter impotence of this europe. no more delays, no more blackmail, no more opaque contracts, no more time to waste. europe must put in place a rapid and effective vaccination plan, working with those countries which have done well on vaccines and before us, such as the united states, great britain and israel. the sooner you get your health back, the sooner you can go back to work and live. we will fight for europe to change course and to do what it has not done before: the right to health, the right to life, the right to work for all italian citizens.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in emergency situations, europe is capable of the best and the worst. in the face of the health crisis, it has shown how effectively it can act by implementing a jointly funded recovery plan and the joint purchase of vaccines. in the face of the social crisis, however, europe has for decades shown a clear lack of ambition, even though it has all the necessary vaccines at its disposal. take the decent minimum income: rather than urgently proposing binding legislation, the commission is suggesting a council recommendation, whereas the first such recommendation was made in 1992, thirty years ago. this is all the more serious as social insecurity continues to increase: in 2019, 92 million europeans, including 20 million children, were at risk of poverty. these numbers are literally going to explode with the economic impact of the pandemic. look at that, the lines are getting longer outside the food banks. can we accept that hundreds of thousands of europeans are hungry in the heart of one of the richest continents on the planet? the commission therefore wants to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty by 15 million. this is not only an insufficient target, it is a step backwards compared to the 2020 targets which were never met. the truth is that many social rights are still considered secondary principles today and poverty is seen as a necessary evil. the truth is that for years now, member states have been reducing their investments in health, education and social protection, and it is hardly worth saying that the european authorities have not dissuaded them from doing so. the truth is that in the absence of a social and above all fiscal europe, competition between member states breaks our social model, especially when trade unions are increasingly marginalised. but all this is not a fate. in recent months, europe has put the lives of europeans before the profits of shareholders. the crisis offers the european union the opportunity to reinvent itself by placing social justice at the heart of its project. the european green deal must indeed initiate the ecological transition, but this transition must be a transition of solidarity or it will fail. i say to you, colleagues, that the social crisis requires a vaccine, and quickly!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 we adopted in gothenburg the european pillar of social rights to give all citizens and europe as a whole a human response, a response to people to build a social europe that is just, strong and full of opportunities. three years later, last week, the commission presented that action plan to develop this pillar of social rights and converted those twenty principles on which the pillar was based into concrete measures; that is, it transformed the principles into action. this is an important step because we need a europe that can respond to this pandemic, to this crisis that we are facing, and that puts quality employment at the heart of this response. it is important that we address the need to ensure that no one is deprived of this opportunity, that the right skills are developed to have this job and that we fight poverty. only if we combine economic sustainability and environmental sustainability, but also social sustainability, if we combine these three paths, will we value what we are: the europe of human rights, the continent of peace, the europe of solidarity, respect and equality.
i think you can say, mr president, that a new wind is blowing through europe, and i do not think i am the only one who sees it. the time of drastic cuts in the welfare state and of lower wages is behind us. we have learned that lesson from the last crisis and we are therefore witnessing a turning point. we can make history at the social summit that the portuguese presidency is going to organise, and i am very pleased with commissioner schmit's action plan, because it contains many good aims and many concrete proposals. platform workers have the same rights as other workers. a european law on pay transparency will be introduced, so that men and women will finally be paid equally. and with a social security number, we'll be able to take on rogue employers when they don't pay social security, but cheat with it. a lot of our ideas are in this plan. you can see the similarities with our december report. i would like to congratulate the commissioner and mr schmit. you've done a fine piece of work. but we're not done fighting yet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. your salary should be enough to support you and your family, and with a ban on zero-hour contracts and the elimination of temporary agency work, we can take steps towards better work. secondly, we must halve poverty in europe by 2030. working hard and living in poverty, that shouldn't be possible anymore. and third, no job should make you sick. health and safety at work must be guaranteed, so that no one dies as a result of work. the commissioner has already indicated that he agrees with that. he promised to include it in his strategy. so i think we can make progress, but then the commission and the european countries have to deliver. that is why i would like to use this platform to call on commission president van der leyen to make the social objectives binding, so that we can sign those binding social objectives at the summit in porto together with the heads of government of europe, together with the european parliament, together with the social partners. i'm in the mood. let us make a europe that works for everyone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few months before the porto summit in may, the european union is once again preparing to turn its back on the world. after bleeding the peoples of europe, she is now promising us the coming of the great evening. yet no one is fooled. the seams are visible and everything indicates that they're going to crack. besides, what better thing could she say in the face of her helplessness? recommendations for lower wages? i already have. cutting public services? i already have. privatizing health care? once again, already done. in the face of these failures, the health crisis shows that despite a real transformation to reorient disastrous economic policies, the european commission has mastered the art of covering the sad reality with beautiful words. before you can fight inequalities, you must agree with the diagnosis. first, massive deindustrialization is greatly increasing social insecurity. france is losing thousands of jobs and is struggling to integrate the new generations economically. secondly, mass immigration increases the pressure on our social systems. these systems are out of whack. thirdly, the massive ratification of free trade agreements which lead to unfair competition and social dumping. these three points require urgent answers. victor hugo said, "nothing is stronger than an idea whose time has come". the time has come, in 2022, the people of france will demonstrate it.
president, nine out of ten european citizens have high expectations of a social europe, and that is logical, because the union has brought us much prosperity and well-being. but since the 2008 crisis, our engine for social progress has been sputtering. covid is increasing the social divide every day and we have to stop it, so i am glad that there is finally an action plan for the european pillar of social rights. how can we explain the fact that in a rich europe 700 000 people have to sleep on the streets every night and that the poverty rate has hardly decreased? how do we explain to our daughters, mothers and sisters that they are still earning 16 per cent less than men in this union? the challenge is enormous. we need to invest in sustainable jobs, good social protection and social services. the summit in porto must be a turning point for a truly social europe. that requires political ambition, and that is lacking today. now take the poverty numbers. today, more than 90 million people in europe live in poverty. every day i look those people in the eye when i come to parliament. and that touches me deeply. commissioner, you propose to reduce the number of poor by 15 million by 2030, but that's way below the mark. i'm not just saying that. you admitted it yourself. the un is calling for a reduction of half by 2030. then why are you proposing a target that's three times lower? we need strong social laws for a minimum wage, for a minimum income, for closing the wage gap. we need to protect our employees even more. our social standards are the highest in the world, and yet we still have working poor. for example, bicycle couriers, who deliver our meals, have little access to a minimum income or social protection. with the green deal, the recovery fund and the pillar of social rights, we have everything we need to finally achieve a strong, social europe. well, let's take that chance with both hands.
madam president, the european pillar of social rights only takes account of percentages, individual demands and rights, but it does not take account of the essential fact that we are a society living together and that we must strive for the common good. the child, the young man, the woman are presented as completely isolated persons. family is not included as an essential pillar factor. when we talk about employment, we also forget about the company, the entrepreneurs, who are the main generators of wealth. if you only consider the benefits of the workers, you strangle the employer, you kill the opportunity: that is, more poverty and more inequality. with these shortcomings, whether intentional or not, the success of this initiative is impossible. why don't you take that into account? they are decisive factors for social development. we are in a pandemic relief situation, and they are preoccupied with making plans, convening summits, which do not materialize the immediate help that more and more people need. they say they want to move from principles to actions. today you have the opportunity to show that european social policies can be a support for the member states. but no, instead of putting solidarity into practice, they want to use social objectives to intrude on the sovereignty of nations.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner, as you have said, 88% of european citizens expect more from a social europe. and your action plan for the practical implementation of the european pillar of social rights is a step forward for social justice. and the summit in porto next may should be an opportunity to put your ideas into practice. the opportunity to go beyond the statements. above all, it is an opportunity to really build the europe of social inclusion. the european union is based on two specific features: a social protection model that is unique in the world and the free movement of workers. unfortunately, these two bridges do not go together well enough. we are in a single market, but today the free movement of workers still does not go hand in hand with the portability of rights, the recognition of qualifications and skills, or the fight against unfair competition. i would like to highlight the special case of mobile workers, whether frontier workers, seasonal workers or posted workers. today, these workers often face precarious working conditions, unfairly competitive pay between member states, reduced access to social protection and difficulties in the recognition of their rights and qualifications. only upward social convergence in europe can ensure the conditions for fair and rights-based labour mobility, and this action plan must contribute to this. as you will have understood, madam minister, commissioner, we expect a lot from the porto summit. we, the parliamentarians, but above all we, the europeans.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, népszabadság, 1956—2016 – a newspaper bought by a friend of viktor orbán, then shut down; index.hu, 1995–2020 – a news website bought by a friend of viktor orbán. staff were fired or pushed to resign, they then created telex.hu; klubradio, 1999–2021 – radio frequency was not given by the government this year, they went on the internet. we could speak about origo, the first newspaper bought by a friend of viktor orbán in 2014, which changed dramatically and radically its editorial line to become 100% pro—government without any nuances – like all the other media bought by friends of viktor orbán these last years. the obituary of independent media in hungary is getting longer every year. there are no arrests of journalists in that member state, but every means is being employed by the fidesz government to suppress purely and simply media freedom and media pluralism. forced closures, media capture, state aid abuse, channelling state advertising only to pro—government media, smear campaigns against journalists and the creation of a media council which regulates everything is totally non-transparent and completely in the hands of the government. this is not a rule of law concern. this is a core issue of the european union. this is the free market. this is distortion of fair competition and a misuse of european money. this is our job. (applause)
mr president, democracy and the rule of law are increasingly under threat in the european union, with freedom of expression and the independence of the media in the forefront. hungary, poland and now slovenia have been added to this already too long list. tomorrow, what other government will create a so-called autonomous foundation to encipher its work? which independent media will lose its broadcasting frequencies, guilty of informing? which journalist will be the victim of malicious prosecution? we continue to debate, denounce and point fingers, but what good are all these words without concrete action? why are all the mechanisms we have created to protect the rule of law not activated in the face of these attacks on media freedom? on 14 february, before the hungarian radio station klubradio stopped broadcasting following a government decision, it broadcast the anthem of the european union as a last call for help. commissioner, the free voices of europe need us and we need them even more. then let us fight to preserve our free and democratic union.
mr president, radio silence, blank pages, black screens - that is what we saw and heard when we looked for independent information in poland and hungary a few months ago. that is why, together with more than 80 colleagues, we have alerted the commission to the closure of klubradio in budapest and to the new tax on advertising revenue in poland. today, it is in slovenia that the prime minister is making a name for himself by suffocating the media that is unfavourable to him. how is it possible, at this time of crisis, that three governments of the european union are simultaneously threatening media pluralism? this is an intolerable attack on the rule of law, freedom of information and opinion, and we cannot stand by and watch. we need to strengthen media pluralism and media funding in the action plans for media and democracy presented by the commission. finally, where threats are proven, the rule of law conditionality mechanism must be applied by cutting european resources from governments. no european money without respect for european values. here too, we must keep our promises.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are debating today has only one article: the european parliament hereby declares the european union a zone of freedom for lgbtiq people. it's only a few words, but words have power. and when two years ago, in some polish municipalities, statements were made calling for lgbt-free zones, without lgbt ideology, it was also just words. and yet, when in some countries, public discourse differentiates between individuals based on their sexual orientation or gender identity, how can society avoid malicious acts, insults, assaults? imagine the life of lgbtiq people in these communities! have we even thought about what it's like to be a teenager discovering your homosexuality in these communes? but, ladies and gentlemen, because words have power, this resolution is in fact much more than a simple sentence: it is a clear and powerful message to governments that the european parliament will no longer tolerate the dangerous and deadly rhetoric that attacks the freedom of millions of citizens, who they are, to love, to start a family. this is a promise we make to all lgbtiq people in europe. the promise that the european parliament will stand with freedom is a start: this resolution must sound the charge of freedom in the face of hatred. a battle that we will fight head-on, but we cannot win alone here, cities and villages, regions and capitals of western and eastern europe, declare yourselves lgbtiq freedom zone. but don't stop there, transform the reality of lgbtiq people's lives on the ground. ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the citizens of europe, i have the honour to ask you to declare the european union as a zone of freedom for lgbtiq people.
madam president, this weekend, not far from brussels, a man was lynched to death by a gang of young people because of his homosexuality. these intolerable dramas will not stop because you have proclaimed europe as a zone of lgbt freedom. what also threatens the freedom of homosexuals, as well as that of women in europe, is the expansion of radical islam and mass immigration of non-assimilated people. instead of fighting this phenomenon, which your resolution says nothing about, you are attacking the sovereignty of nations and using this issue to advance your political agenda. you want to impose recognition by the member states of children who have two parents of the same sex. you are giving in to the ideology of a minority of lgbt organizations. every child is born of a father and a mother, it is an indisputable biological reality. we shall therefore vote against your resolution and propose a text which defends the rights and security of individuals and the sovereignty of nations.
in writing. instead of progress, the european union is once again witnessing a growing number of violations of the rights of lgbtiq people and their systematic discrimination. unfortunately, too often minorities are exploited to foment hatred, to spread intolerance and as a tool of political struggle. we are back in the field where instead of protecting the minority, the majority decides to oppress them. where democracy fails again. it's like we haven't learned anything from history. it's time to really take a step forward. there is no place in europe for violence, discrimination, intimidation and intolerance. let's make a space for solidarity, justice and mutual respect, no matter who we are or who we love. we are all born equal in the same world, and all should enjoy the same and inalienable rights and freedoms. it's high time we crossed the divide between us and you. because diversity makes us rich. in europe, we are united in our diversity and therefore stronger. the rights of the 'maverick' are human rights. the fight against group inequality is a fight for all of us, on all levels. because love is love. because we're all human. i therefore strongly support the adoption of a european parliament resolution declaring the european union a free zone for lgbtiq people. united in diversity!
in writing. in poland, since march 2019, more than one hundred regions, districts and municipalities across the country have adopted resolutions declaring themselves lgbt ideology-free zones or have adopted regional charters of family rights thus expressing their opposition to the ideology of the lgtb movement and calling on local governments to refrain from any action that could promote tolerance towards lgbtiq people and thus discriminate against this group both directly and indirectly. the european parliament has expressed its position in several of its resolutions on the situation of the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in poland, denouncing the systemic threat to the values of the union, as well as the deterioration of the situation with regard to the rights of women and the lgbtqi community. considering that the eu must protect and promote the equality and fundamental rights of all people, including those of this group, the european union is declared a 'zone of freedom for lgbtiq people'.
in writing. in poland, since march 2019, more than one hundred regions, districts and municipalities across the country have adopted resolutions declaring themselves lgbt ideology-free zones or have adopted regional charters of family rights thus expressing their opposition to the ideology of the lgtb movement and calling on local governments to refrain from any action that could promote tolerance towards lgbtiq people and thus discriminate against this group both directly and indirectly. the european parliament has expressed its position in several of its resolutions on the situation of the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in poland, denouncing the systemic threat to the values of the union, as well as the deterioration of the situation with regard to the rights of women and the lgbtqi community. considering that the eu must protect and promote the equality and fundamental rights of all people, including those of this group, the european union is declared a 'zone of freedom for lgbtiq people'.
i could not support the resolution declaring the eu a zone of freedom for lgbtiq people. but not because i would deny the fundamental rights of any group or minority within the eu. i fundamentally reject discrimination and oppression of minorities on the basis of race, gender, sexual orientation or religion. the european union does not need to declare lgbtiq freedom zones, because all persons within the european union are already protected by the eu charter of fundamental rights, the universal declaration of human rights, but also by the case law of the european court of justice. however, that resolution significantly encroaches on the competences of the member states and does not respect the principle of subsidiarity. internal affairs should be left to national governments. we must work to ensure that everyone in the eu feels safe and that their human rights are respected. i think that parliament should not show that it does not trust the member states to respect human rights and to put things in order. it is up to the citizens of poland to stand up for the fulfilment of human rights.
in writing. in poland we are seeing worrying developments. as of march 2019, there are over 100 cities and towns that designate themselves as places free of lgbtiq ideology. local governments are called upon to discriminate against lgbtiq people and boycott lgbtiq actions. lgbtiq-free zones are a disgrace and a direct attack on fundamental human rights. european society is based on equal opportunities, non-discrimination and respect for the rights of all citizens. today, the european parliament is sending a strong signal to all lgbtiq people in the eu that they can be who they are, wherever they are in the eu, by designating the entire european union as a zone of freedom for lgbtiq people. the way we are born has no ideological foundation. that's the nature of it. that is biology. we live in the year 2021, there should be no more hatred and discrimination. based on skin color. it's about gender. it's about his sexual orientation. i will continue to defend the rights of lgbtiq people against those who attack them from ideologically indefensible positions. the european union stands for equality, a place in the world where everyone enjoys the same freedoms and rights, regardless of how we are born.
author. madam president, commissioner dalli, i have the honour to take the floor to present the result of the joint work carried out as rapporteur for a motion for a resolution following an oral question from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i chair. the motion for a resolution deals with the rights of the child, the minor, the boy and the girl, the rights of the child, and does so in the light of the commission's imminent presentation of its eu strategy on the rights of the child. we expect that to be presented on 24 march, so that is exactly the time when we should review the contents of this resolution which is being put to the vote of the european parliament in this march plenary. it seeks to answer the six questions put to the commission concerning: national plans to implement the objectives set by the strategy; support for an inclusive and holistic approach that focuses in particular on the most vulnerable children; ensuring the participation of children as agents of change; the obligation of member states to provide adequate funding and, of course, the support of the commission; the mandatory link to the sustainable development goals and the united nations 2030 agenda; and taking into account the impact of the covid-19 pandemic, which has only exacerbated inequalities across the european union and in the member states. and that is why we are very conscious of the fact that the rights of the child are, for one thing, enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in a more explicit and powerful way than, surely, in any written constitution of any of the 27 member states of the union. it enshrines, first of all, the child's best interests, the principle which governs all protective law and which also inspires the child's correctional legislation. in the member states it is expressly enshrined. but it also contains, in addition to article 24, which enshrines the rights of the child, and article 21, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of age, an article 34 which, in an absolutely explicit and binding way, prohibits child labour and prohibits the exploitation of minors, guaranteeing in any case their access to the education system. the resolution which this parliament is about to vote on covers all these aspects in a text which is unusually long. there are twenty-seven recitals and forty paragraphs in the resolution, which take as their starting point the special problems of minors in the face of the fact of migration. we cannot ignore the fact that there are at least 200 million stateless children in search of a place of refuge, some of them in the european union, of course. there is also a link to the 2011 directive on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which is binding for all member states, linked to the 2012 directive on the protection of victims, taking into account that many victims of sexual exploitation are indeed minors, who therefore require procedural treatment that should be guaranteed by the development by member states of the 2016 directive on procedural rights and access of minors to the exercise of all rights before the judicial system: the right to interpretation in a way that is understandable to them; the right to legal assistance and specialist assistance, and the protection of the best interests of the child in all proceedings. there is, as it should be, a concern expressed in the resolution about child poverty and a mandate to the european union to ensure, through a european plan we call the child poverty guarantee, that the needs of those 150 million poor children in the immediate vicinity of the european union and those 73 million children who are victims of sexual slavery and sexual exploitation are met. this morning we were discussing the european social pillar. we have every hope in the relaunch of the european pillar of social rights, but there will be no pillar if we are not able to include, as it deserves, the protection of the rights of minors and children, not only in the forthcoming strategy but also in the development legislation - the directives - because that development legislation which will follow the strategy will be the measure of the european parliament's commitment to the protection of minors and children.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, dear members, thank you for your question in the context of our work on the upcoming european union strategy on the rights of the child. i have already engaged the honourable members on this, and i thank you for all your contributions. together with national authorities, we work to counter the negative consequences of the pandemic on children. this year my hope is that children everywhere will be able to return to school safely. hopes require actions, therefore, on 24 march, the commission will adopt its first–ever comprehensive european union strategy on the rights of the child. we want to achieve a child rights-based culture in our policy making. to answer your first question: member states are key partners. the strategy will contain concrete recommendations for action at member state level. member states’ representatives have been extensively consulted in our expert group. we are working with the current and future presidencies to facilitate member states’ endorsement of the strategy. we will also launch an european union network for children’s rights to facilitate mutual learning between member states, and to track the progress of action at national and european union level. in response to your second question on vulnerable children and non–discrimination, i must emphasise that children’s rights are universal. every child, regardless of background, gender, social, economic and residence status, should enjoy the same rights, the same life, free of discrimination. this will be the guiding principle of the strategy; targeted actions are envisaged under the thematic sections to address specific needs. regarding your question on the meaningful participation of children, i want to be very clear: not only is this a strategy for children, it is also a strategy developed with children. children are engaged citizens. more than 10 000 children were consulted in the preparation of the strategy and the child guarantee. this is unprecedented. we will also include children and young people in the deliberations of the conference on the future of europe. to answer your fourth question, the overall objective of the strategy will be to achieve the mainstreaming of child rights in all european union policies. for example, the digital decade communication includes child-specific principles. we are working on implementing the commission’s strategy to fight online child sexual abuse, the protection of children in our migration policy, and supporting child victims and children with cancer under the europe’s beating cancer plan, illustrate the necessity of this mainstreaming approach. the strategy will be adopted together with the proposal for a council recommendation on the european union child guarantee, which will tackle social exclusion, poverty and inequalities. you have asked about the funding. i’m particularly pleased with the agreement reached on the european social fund plus. at least five per cent of allocated money is earmarked for tackling child poverty under the child guarantee. increased investment in children means that member states must be encouraged to allocate european union funding for the implementation of the objectives and measures of the strategy. to answer, your fifth question, the strategy will be fully anchored in the european union charter of fundamental rights, in the european union convention on the rights of the child and it will also contribute to the sustainable development goals. the global dimension of child rights and protection will be addressed in a dedicated section. and your last question touches on the pandemic. every single thematic area of the strategy has been affected by the consequences of this pandemic, so we will leave no stone unturned in our bid to understand the full effects on children’s health, development and well–being. thank you for listening, and i’m also ready to listen to your views now.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, our group, the epp, had called for a strategy for the rights of the child during the previous mandate. our call has been heard and this strategy will be presented by the european commission on 24 march. for just over a year, our children have been suffering the full effects of the health crisis. some have fallen into poverty, others have dropped out of school or developed post-traumatic stress disorder. the future european union strategy for children's rights will have to take into account the very strong impact of the health crisis on our younger generations. it will also have to propose, as we are asking in this resolution, a plan to combat forced child labour. a plan to combat violence against children online and offline, i am thinking of course of children who are victims of sexual abuse and online harassment, domestic violence, incest, i am also thinking of forced marriages and children who are victims of genital mutilation. the commission has also drawn up a plan to combat discrimination on grounds of religion, disability, sex, gender and ethnic origin, so that equal opportunities do not remain a wishful thinking. proposals will also have to be made to adapt our justice to children: they must feel protected and listened to. finally, a legislative response is needed to crossborder family disputes which may deprive a child of one of his or her parents in the event of divorce. this is a question that affects many families, it creates many injustices and it remains unanswered today. all these priorities are now being taken up by parliament in this resolution and we ask you, madam commissioner, in the best interests of our children, to integrate them into your strategy.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, with this resolution, we must send a strong message that future generations are not the victims of the pandemic. for the children of the world who have no voice but to cry, we must rise to the challenge, because every child who disappears is our civilization shooting an arrow. how many? how many children are missing or invisible? words are fine on paper, but we need action. you can close your borders, block your ports, block your roads, but you'll have to rely on us to defend your exiled children. stop locking them up. a child is a child and it is our duty to protect him, not to violate his rights such as education, asylum and freedom. the european strategy for the rights of the child, our resolution is a non-binding text but if we really want to defend the rights of every child, then let us fight against poverty and fight for the anti-discrimination directive to be unblocked. in this way, disabled children and their parents will really exist in this parliament. let us fight every day so that no child is harassed, sexually abused, or subjected to domestic violence. ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has only revealed our lack of ambition. here we are, chatting away over a comma, a period, and meanwhile, kids are getting beat up over our missed appointments. let us fight every day so that no child will ever suffer from the digital divide again. education is a fundamental right: to learn to read, write and count is to learn how beautiful life can be, to make up our differences and escape from ignorance. so, my children, all children, i hope that one day you will not have to judge us because here we have not been able to protect you.
the president, following a request to the european parliament in 2014, is pleased to see the eu strategy on the fourth framework programme published by the commission as soon as possible. the digital world is changing every year, and the number of children using the internet is growing. in recent years, there has been a need for young people to use the internet, to do school work and to communicate with their friends. there were advantages to the internet, but it was a good thing. i'd like to hear a drawing on the wall in the kitchen. i've written a letter to president von der leyen about this, and today i'm going to ask him to go to the streets to be safe and to read the article. the laws are so simple, they're so simple. it's important to keep your moon cool. le linn in the dianghlasála, there are children able to participate to ghlacadh sa spórt. of course, it is an essential sport for physical health. in any case, it is very important to have good health in the home, and social security so that children can be protected from violence and other harm. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the european year of the environment, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the sooner it happens the better.
mr president, i welcome the new european union strategy on the rights of the child. i would like to thank mr juan fernando lópez aguilar for the opportunity to be here today in this debate, and the president of the european commission for presenting this strategy and for leaving it in the hands of a vice-president like mrs šuica, which gives an idea of the importance that is being given to this matter in the commission, something i very much appreciate, but i have a problem that i would like to raise. the pandemic has imposed distance learning, which has dramatically increased the time minors spend online, thus increasing their exposure to all types of online crime and violence: action is needed and done early to protect children. with the digital services act and the digital markets act, we have a unique opportunity to ensure that technology companies and platforms enhance children's safety online by protecting them from sexual abuse and exploitation. the latest figures paint a dramatic picture: since the entry into force of the european electronic communications code, many companies have stopped using technologies to detect child sexual abuse, which has led to a fall of 51% of online sexual abuse complaints. this is not the time to play politics at the expense of children: let us also put an end to this pimping between institutions in the european union; let us agree, with immediate effect, on a derogation that would give platforms back their role in detecting child sexual abuse and online harassment.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i want to thank the honourable members for this debate. i can see that the european parliament is truly engaged in the topic of children’s rights. i have been listening carefully to all of you, and i have taken note of all the issues you have raised today. we will look at these more closely and see how your suggestions can be better reflected in the upcoming strategy. the impact of the covid—19 pandemic on children is taken into account in all sections of the strategy. when i was listening, almost all of you mentioned, first, distance—learning and problems with mental health, second the eradication of child labour and protection of migrant children; this is included in this strategy. third, online and offline abuse remains a key concern and will be addressed through concrete action. we are taking this seriously. yes, mr kelly, this is included. our priority is to turn our words into action. someone said that children’s rights have to be not only announced but implemented. the child guarantee will be the first implementation of this strategy. fifth, this strategy is our roadmap, which is embedded in the un convention on the rights of the child. the commission needs your help in delivering the strategy’s ambitious plan. our intention is to deliver progress on the ground in the european union and beyond, to improve children’s lives, to ensure better protection and implementation of their rights. for that to happen, we need to work together. the european parliament has a vital role to play in bringing this message to every member state, closer to our citizens, and in helping us put everyone’s voice, including that of children, at the heart of european union policymaking. it was high time we had such a strategy and i look forward to your further support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 11 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. children's rights are an integral part of the human rights that the european union is obliged to respect under the un convention on the rights of the child, which poland initiated over 40 years ago. unfortunately, many of the problems of child protection remain unresolved and we are now seeing new ones emerge. the covid-19 pandemic has presented member states and the european union with a number of different challenges. the move to online learning has shown the scale of digital exclusion, and many schools have failed to organize classes. the additional effect was that the children developed mental and psychological problems, loneliness, and even depression, associated with the limitation of peer contact. many families have lost at least part of their income, which has directly affected the situation and financial security of their children. in addition, there is a risk of an increase in violence against children, both domestic violence where the perpetrators cannot be isolated and online violence, as a significant part of the activity is transferred to the network.
in writing. the protection of the rights and best interests of the child is explicitly enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights and in article 3 of the eu treaty. in the light of the new european strategy on the rights of the child, we regret to see that children are still victims of violence, exploitation, abuse, discrimination, poverty and social exclusion. among other things, the pandemic has created new challenges, brought to light incidents of domestic violence against minors and highlighted the modern pathology of exposing millions of children to the dangers of the internet. just consider that before the pandemic, one in four children in europe was at risk of poverty, a figure that is expected to double. cyberbullying has skyrocketed, and the majority of children have been victimized by people they trusted. in this context, it must not be forgotten that children are by definition the most vulnerable groups in the population and all policies concerning them must take account of their special needs according to their age. we welcome the new european strategy and call on the commission to guarantee all children inclusive access to education and to put the best interests of children at the heart of any relevant legislative initiative.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the reform of the eu policy framework to end tax avoidance in the eu following the openlux revelations (2021/2558 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this discussion. the challenges of european taxation constitutes one of our presidency priorities, establishing a fair and efficient model of taxation, strengthening of good governance mechanisms, the global tax transparency, and to stepping up the fight against tax fraud, evasion and avoidance through non-cooperative jurisdiction are some of the areas where we want to advance. as you are aware, it was under the portuguese presidency that the dossier on the country-by-country report (cbcr) has advanced substantially in the council. over the last few years, the council has achieved a lot by extending the scope of administrative cooperation in taxation matters, most recently also to digital platforms. tax rulings issued to companies will not be a secret any more. tax authorities can now exchange information on country-by-country reports and potentially aggressive cross-border tax planning schemes. administrative cooperation in the area of vat is also taking a much higher level. in the context of enhanced transparency, it is also worth mentioning recent and planned improvements in the area of anti-money laundering framework, including on determining beneficial ownership, a key aspect of the openlux investigation. and, of course, there is the anti-tax avoidance directive, which provides a comprehensive framework of anti-abuse measures so that taxation occurs where value is created. as regards the openlux specifically, allow me to underline some points. first, the eu has a set of clearly-defined competences in the treaties where certain matters are left to national competence. this means that we have to look into what each of the other member states is doing so that the sovereign right of one country doesn’t limit the sovereign right of the others. secondly, the commission is doing what is necessary, either through legislative proposals through well-established procedures to ensure the full compliance of all member states with eu law under equal conditions. we all have to act within the limits of our own competences. as far as the competences of the council are concerned, the presidency will continue to work on this matter, building on the political guidance of the council conclusions on fair and effective taxation in times of recovery, on tax challenges linked to digitalisation and on tax good governance in the eu and beyond, which the council approved last november. these conclusions touched also on international cooperation, which is an element of the parliament’s resolution on reforming the eu list of tax havens. global cooperation is key to combating base erosion and profit-shifting. allow me to cite two well-known examples. first, the code of conduct group. with the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions, member states have contributed to changing a considerable number of harmful tax practices in third countries. most of the more than 90 jurisdictions have aligned themselves with the standards common to the eu member states, and this is in itself an achievement. member states have also achieved a lot in the area of intergovernmental corporate tax policy coordination within the eu. the eu conduct group examines existing laws, establishes practices in eu countries which affect, or may affect in a significant way, the location of business activity in the eu and the group is regularly looking into further improving its functioning on the basis of its achievements. a second example is the digitalised economy. the digitalised economy enables structures that shift profits to entities that are taxed at a very low rate or not at all. the member states are working closely with the oecd to find a global solution that covers both the allocation of taxing rights and anti—profit shifting rules. we are doing everything we can to reach an agreement by mid-2021. both the council and the european council will discuss these matters in march. to conclude, i believe that, not least in the context of the pandemic, we should continue to explore avenues for adjusting the eu policy framework for combating tax avoidance. i’m convinced that the council and member states will swiftly make further progress in the area of taxation, and the contribution of the european parliament to this endeavour will be of the highest value for this discussion.
member of the commission. – mr president, press investigations and public disclosures have been a great propeller of positive change by exposing weaknesses to the public and creating political momentum for the european parliament and the european institutions to act. thanks to openlux, we know more than before on issues concerning the implementation of anti-money laundering rules and transparency of beneficial ownership information, on the use of aggressive tax planning strategies, and on the existence of companies with no or very little economic substance, the so-called shell companies. openlux points to problems which, by nature, have no borders. we need eu solutions. the aim to increase transparency of information is a key driver for the commission agenda. after the fifth anti-money laundering directive, which by the way enabled the openlux investigation, a step forward in transparency will be achieved soon with the interconnection of a system of national registers, which will allow national competent authorities to have direct access to information held by the national registers of the other member states. other very important steps have been achieved, thanks to the two anti-tax avoidance directives and the dac 6 on the mandatory disclosure of potentially aggressive cross-border tax arrangements. as a result, the eu today has a legislative framework in place that makes it the frontrunner on standards of transparency and anti-avoidance rules, compared to other global players. however, we cannot be complacent. while national governments are struggling to face revenue needs, a decisive step up to ensure more effective eu-wide compliance with the principle of progressive tax is needed. it would support redistribution and reduction of inequalities among our economies. moreover, we also need improvements to the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions, as we discussed here last month with a resolution of the parliament. first, we have to make sure that all the rules we have adopted at the eu level are effectively enforced by all member states. second, we need to constantly work to further strengthen our legal tools to curb illicit behaviours. the openlux investigation revealed that a large number of companies have failed to meet their reporting obligations. this is a matter of monitoring and, of course, it is not acceptable, neither in the case of luxembourg nor or any other eu member states. we have eu rules and all eu member states have to follow them. in addition, in an ever-evolving world, tax practices continuously evolve as well. this is why clamping down on tax avoidance and tax fraud remains high on our political agenda. in july last year, the commission tabled an action plan for fair and simple taxation, which now has to be put in practice, and we will not stop there. the commission services are working intensively on additional proposals, including on the fight against tax avoidance and on the public disclosure of certain information about income tax by large undertakings. we intend to provide more detail on some of those initiatives in the forthcoming communication on business taxation. let me briefly speak about some of them. first, shell companies – entities with no or very little economic substance – can pose a real threat within the internal market in terms of tax base erosion and profit shifting, and they also play a role in transactions linked to money laundering and tax evasion. my services are currently reflecting on an additional amendment to the anti-tax avoidance directive as soon as possible, in order to tackle the challenges linked to the use of shell companies in relation to tax avoidance. as regards the fight against aggressive tax planning, it is worth mentioning two parallel initiatives: the reform of the mandate of the code of conduct of the business taxation group and the recovery and resilience facility. the reform of the code of conduct mandate aims at broadening the scope to assess and ensure the proper monitoring and assessment of all relevant tax measures in member states. the recovery and resilience facility context, the member states concerned by a recommendation on aggressive tax planning are currently submitting to the commission their national plans. due consideration will be given to tax reforms aimed at decisive steps against aggressive tax planning strategies o foster corporate transparency. i am pleased to see the recent unblocking in the council on the proposal for a directive on country—by—country reporting, and i congratulate the portuguese presidency for this step forward. parliament and the council will hopefully soon start the trilogues and finalise the negotiations. honourable members, action only within the eu would not be sufficient, as shown in the openlux investigation, their potential harmfulness seems to have been exacerbated when complemented with reduced transparency in third countries, especially those with no income tax or with significant deficiencies in their anti-money laundering or tax transparency frameworks. this is why tackling the international dimension of the beneficial ownership—related deficiencies is one of the priorities for the future of the eu list. we need to integrate, effectively, beneficial ownership within the eu listing process. last but not least, a few words on minimum effective taxation to put a floor to tax competition. i only see two possible scenarios. if an agreement is reached at the oecd on pillar 2 within the timeline that we have, this will be transposed into eu law. if no agreement is reached at the oecd, the commission is committed to taking eu action to ensure a minimum level of effective taxation, taking into account the landing point of the current global discussions.
we now continue our debate on the statements by the council and the commission (2021/2558 (rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, there are savings banks for the people and there is luxembourg for the very rich. tiger woods, shakira, cristiano ronaldo, but also pfizer and the italian mafia: they all have a letterbox company in the grand duchy. and that's no longer a secret because their public register has been mandatory since 2018 in the european union and thanks also to the journalist collective, including anne michel of le monde, that has started to dig into that register. european legislation thus has the potential to make shadow money flows transparent and visible. i say potential, because luxembourg is one of the few countries which actually has a register, albeit in a very limited form. it should not take a team of journalists to find out that there is 6 million euros parked in luxembourg. and even then, it turns out the ultimate owner of those companies is still difficult or impossible to trace. ultimate beneficial ownership. registers should therefore be accessible and complete. no one should be able to hide wealth behind complicated structures, and certainly not in europe. it is a shame that the top ten tax havens published this week do not include two european member states. the netherlands is in fourth place and luxembourg in sixth. ireland was a disappointing 11th. let us ensure that not all taxes are paid by the people, but that cristiano ronaldo and pfizer also contribute to the recovery after the crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it's just that we're running out of money. we have huge investment needs in the green deal, in digitization, in our common future. and at the same time we continue to allow large-scale financial crime, tax evasion, tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance in the single market. because our member states are still not working together in such a way that we actually have an effective tax system. for years this parliament has been advocating, with large majorities, a common tax policy and also strict rules on money laundering. one of the direct consequences is the establishment of transparency registers of beneficial owners. this is a success of the european parliament. and the data from that has now been used by journalists in luxembourg to see, how well is this actually being implemented? and it turns out that a lot of these data are not accurate and we don't know, contrary to european law, what should actually be in the registers, who owns the companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but just as we need new measures, we need the enforcement of existing law through infringement proceedings. i'm waiting for that. the commission is not prepared to accept this.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, imagine a burglar who announces his plan in advance, acts with his face uncovered, is filmed by a video surveillance camera or even on social networks and then quietly leaves leaving his contact information. a daylight heist from which he would emerge free and the loot would be none other than our taxes. you think that's ridiculous? and yet, this is what happens every day with tax evasion. the openlux scandal, revealed thanks to the hard work of journalists, demonstrates what everyone already knows: luxembourg is one of the worst tax havens in the world. what everyone knows but is forbidden to say in the european institutions. it is as if we had come straight out of harry potter with luxembourg, which has become the tax haven whose name must not be pronounced, which, with a magic wand, has made more than €6.5 trillion disappear from assets in shadow companies. this is a trick that benefits 37 of the richest families in france, including bernard arnault, but also three quarters of the companies in the cac 40, including sanofi, lvmh, bnp or michelin. the separatists, the aid workers, the thieves, that's who they are. in france alone, 4% of our gdp is being diverted to the country whose name must not be pronounced. there is no need for a cloak of invisibility for those who know, since the european institutions guarantee total impunity, including in this house where my amendment, which precisely listed the european tax havens, was rejected. since it is taboo for you to say it, i will say it again several times, very clearly: luxembourg is a tax haven, luxembourg is a tax haven, luxembourg is a tax haven. and it's not the only one in europe, ireland, the netherlands, malta are no better. this looting organized at our doorsteps is the amount of money that is missing from our state coffers to finance our hospitals, the ecological bifurcation or to support people in poverty. so when the european union, which has just updated its so-called blacklist of tax havens, refuses to join, to name these countries, it is not only incapable, it is ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the openlux investigations have once again focused the spotlight on the grand duchy of luxembourg, revealing many things that point to money laundering, aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance and tax evasion. unfortunately, history has shown too often that where there is smoke, there is usually fire. the european commission would therefore do well to look very closely at the implementation of the relevant anti-money laundering and tax avoidance legislation in luxembourg. in an emergency, the commission must also make use of the infringement procedure. unfortunately, the truth is that the european union's main weapon in the fight against tax fraud, namely the automatic exchange of information on tax matters, is not working very well. although data are exchanged regularly, the data are not standardised and of questionable quality. this is also something that the european court of auditors has very clearly stated in a recent special report. the commission should also step down. but let me say one last sentence very clearly: who is in charge in luxembourg? a coalition of social democrats, liberals and greens. when i hear speeches from the social democrats, the liberals and the greens, i say: speak to your party families. the minister responsible is from the greens. mr giegold, here is your work order: make sure that your party friend in luxembourg implements this correctly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proliferation of financial and tax scandals is damaging our democracy because, at the end of the day, citizens are realizing that there are two tax systems: one for the average european and one for the ultra-privileged, for people who have plenty of money to pay their taxes. so, of course, we have to call a spade a spade and say that there are indeed tax havens within europe. it should also be said that openlux was allowed thanks to a european directive on the issue of transparency. but all this should not hide the fact that there are profiteers and that they must be held accountable, that they must also be named because these people are not children in a candy store. they are adults, they are big, they know what to do and they know how to profit from a system that undermines the foundations of our democracies, prevents us from having the revenues that our states need, creates a deep sense of injustice, feeds populism, hence the need to quickly put in place a code of conduct, an effective minimum tax rate, because this is not only an economic issue, but also a political one.
mr president, transparency operations in this chamber of the european parliament are always synonymous, not with efficiency, but with moral lessons. as a french member of the european parliament, i am primarily concerned with the interests of the french people and i am in office to do so. if tax havens exist, it is also because we allow tax hells to flourish, france for example. when will we stop the injustice of the low taxation of gafam or bigtech taxed at 9.5% when traditional companies are taxed at 25%? not only do they establish themselves as regulators of freedom of expression, but they are not involved in any national effort. when will we dare to tackle the social fraud that is bleeding the nations and particularly france, with more than 50 billion fraud per year? when will we dare, finally and above all, to question your liberal ideology which prefers to tax diesel, cigarettes, real estate and transmissions rather than tax capital and dividends? your policies always favor the global elites, while the lower classes are systematically punished. the countries are always defended by the rich and delivered by the poor, said péguy. this is also true for taxation.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, in this house, where we are happy to give good and bad points, to point out a country that would behave badly, the rule of law has a special meaning. it modestly conceals the malicious intentions behind the mechanism. instead of hiding behind the law, assume that this is a political text that aims to bend hungary and poland to impose your ideology of progressivism. by making aid conditional on respect for the rule of law, this parliament wants to exert undemocratic and, it must be said, scandalous pressure on governments which are elected by a very large majority. it seeks to impose new ways of life, a new culture, a new society without roots and countries without borders, without identity. this mechanism in the hands of the commission allows it to impose its ideology in defiance of national identities, the history of the member states and the democratic choices of the people. his hubris for change and progress knows no limits or complexes. let us listen to marcel gauchet, i quote: 'it is true that the sovereignty of the people must not take precedence over individual rights, a classic problem which justifies the authority of judges, but individual rights must not lead to the liquidation of the sovereignty of the people and especially in its primary dimension of the right to defend oneself as a people'. you are not the good guys, far from it, so let the people defend their traditional model against the risky adventure of immigration and borderless globalism which, let's not forget, gave birth to the covid pandemic.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some people want a conservative europe, or even an illiberal one. so i invite you to look at our continuous efforts over the centuries. if tomorrow a european is accused of a crime, he will expect and society will expect the judge to judge him on the facts of the case and not on his political or social opinions because they would not please the ruling power. no government can frame its own justice. that's the b.a.b.a. of democracy. so i want, yes i want, that progressive europe which has prospered thanks to freedom and impartiality. the freedom to choose one's sexual orientation, the freedom to run for office without being intimidated, the freedom to inform without being threatened and above all to have the certainty of never being worried about one's choices. this is the europe that is in our treaties and this is the europe that the commission must now enforce.
madam president, our development model has led us to the greatest health, economic and social crisis we have ever experienced. we have a duty to transform our economy so that it finally protects the living and ensures social equality. the un warns us: we cannot miss the opportunity of these recovery plans to save the climate. it is a technical possibility, it is an ethical necessity, it is a vital imperative. we are now mobilising more money than we have ever done in the past and than we had planned to finance the european green deal. so let's be serious and demand that at least 50% of these stimulus plans be devoted to climate: the minimum to finance the green deal, according to the european commission's estimates. so let us be firm and demand that any climate-destroying projects such as airports, fossil fuels or nuclear power be excluded from these recovery plans. let's be realistic, let's stop supporting companies that persist in pushing the planetary boundaries. finally, i repeat, these stimulus plans cannot benefit the richest and only the richest. we must ensure that these investments have a positive impact on the poorest 10% of our societies.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, thank you very much for the discussion. i very much welcome your broad support to ensuring broad ownership in setting up and implementing the recovery and resilience facility. and on this, we have a shared commitment. this is why the commission has been engaged intensively with all interested stakeholders and member states, and we will continue to do so. broad ownership will be crucial for bringing about investments and reforms set by member states’ recovery and resilience plans and by turning them into reality on the ground. as i mentioned earlier, local and regional authorities, social partners and civil society will play a key role in doing this and in making recovery a success for all. as others have said today, green and digital investments will need to be accompanied by growth—enhancing reforms so that recovery is not short—lived. the european semester’s country—specific recommendations will act as our compass for achieving this goal. in terms of next steps, member states must move faster with finalising their plans. we are not yet there. we need to ensure high—quality plans that set the requirements set out by this house, and that includes good and efficient governance. so to conclude, let me thank you again for our exchanges today, as this provides very useful input as we continue our dialogue with member states.
in writing. eu funds should be used responsibly, effectively and efficiently, and municipalities, stakeholders and civil society organisations should be involved in the planning process. hungary has huf 6 trillion in the crisis management facility at its disposal; spending this huge sum is a serious responsibility. we need to listen to everyone so we can stick together and start the country over again with the best projects. it is unfortunate that the hungarian left can only say one thing: there is no social dialogue. they don't let themselves be distracted by the facts. the government has sought the views of some 500 partners and since december the first version of the national recovery plan has been available online, awaiting comments. the council for the capital's public development, which is the highest level of coordination between the government of the time and the city of budapest, is constantly consulting on the issue of the development resources of several thousand billion forints due to budapest and the agglomeration. the government is firmly committed to not implementing any development in budapest without the consent of the capital. after all this, it's clear the opposition is out to get you. this time, it would not only damage hungary's reputation, but would also deprive the small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens, whether they live in the capital or in the countryside, who are most affected by the crisis, of development resources. i trust that the commission will act with the necessary objectivity and will not be swayed by false allegations.
in writing. national recovery and resilience plans must include real reforms, discussed openly and transparently with social partners, civil society, local authorities and parliamentary parties in order to provide a sustainable and coherent response to the current crisis. these plans must be discussed in parliament and must provide a set of solutions for economic recovery, social resilience building, as well as digital and environmental transformations. the objective is to access funds as quickly as possible and to implement projects effectively within the limited time allocated. unfortunately, there are governments, such as the one in romania, that have politicized the pnrr and do not want to comply with these recommendations or the requirements imposed at european level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. furthermore, country-specific recommendations are being forgotten. in this respect, the european parliament needs to be involved with the european commission in the process of defining and setting the pnrr to ensure that european objectives are met by all governments. the future of our countries and europe depends on this recovery plan.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the attack on ambassador luca attanasio, the police officer vittorio iacovacci and the driver mustapha milambo has affected not only italy but the whole of the european union. i thank all those in this house who will vote in favour of a motion agreed by all the political groups in the last few days. we have to consider the facts of this case. we know the conditions in the democratic republic of congo, with violence, killings, armed groups and 5 million internally displaced people, but it is not enough to denounce this. it is not enough to stress the need to protect the security of diplomats and international actors much better than it has been protected for attanasio and his collaborators. we must make new funding conditional on a review of the security protocols that apply to it. the european union must propose a change of pace, a more effective diplomatic initiative in cooperation with the african union and the states of the southern african development community and a new mission after the eupol and eusec stopover. we need to think about the economic causes of the conflicts in the region. the congo is rich in natural resources and holds half the world's reserves of cobalt, as well as coltan, copper, and diamonds. in this context, china opposes any form of cooperation with the african union and african countries on access to raw materials, exploitation of new markets, human rights and environmental and climate issues. the european union must play a leading role in this region. we cannot shirk our responsibilities or leave room for our competitors. in short, we need a genuine european policy for africa, without leaving any room for unilateral action by individual member states, but there must be coordination of initiatives. in this sense, and i conclude, for years i have proposed a marshall plan for africa. we need to reflect on europe's role in consolidating development processes in democratically fragile contexts. we need to make africa safe and grow. only then will the blood of these peace-loving men not have been shed in vain.
author. madam president, the murders of italian ambassador luca attanasio, moustapha milambo and vittorio iacovacci show us once again that the democratic republic of congo is an extremely fragile country where violence remains a particular concern. this country, rich in natural resources, is and remains one of the poorest countries in africa. since 1993, millions have lost their lives in the conflict, especially where wealth is concentrated. the un mapping report, which covered crimes committed between 1993 and 2003, listed more than 400 criminals guilty of crimes qualified as war crimes who today are still not being tried by a failing justice system. we call for the reform of the congolese judiciary to be a priority and to be supported by development programmes, including the establishment of mixed courts where appropriate, so that it can regain the trust of congolese citizens. we also call for independent investigations to be carried out into the murders of the ambassador and his colleagues, the two un experts and their interpreter, floribert chebeya and his driver, and all those who lost their lives simply for fighting for the rights of the congolese people. finally, we call for the sanctions imposed by the european union on the eleven congolese high representatives linked to human rights violations to be maintained and extended to any person or company directly or indirectly supporting armed groups, including acts of corruption.
author. madam president, my group condemns in the strongest terms the perpetrators of the attack on the un convoy in which the italian ambassador and his entourage were killed. we also deplore the fact that the drc, riddled with corruption, is unable to carry out its royal duties, including the maintenance of law and order and security. we expect the european union to help strengthen the role of the united nations in the eastern part of the drc, knowing that the reconstruction of the country must be pursued with determination. with the entry into force of the new external financing instrument (ndici), the european union is becoming more flexible, with a multi-toolbox and streamlined procedures to respond to very complex situations, including the one in eastern congo. i welcome the presence of commissioner urpilainen, who has been given the important task of planning development cooperation from now on. we are ready to engage in geopolitical dialogue in order to contribute to the search for solutions to situations as complex as those prevailing in fragile states, as is the case in the drc.
author. madam president, today the european parliament votes a joint resolution on the democratic republic of congo to show once again our commitment to human rights everywhere. this resolution is strong because it denounces the attack of 22 february 2021. it is strong because it denounces intolerable violence, including sexual violence, against women. it is strong because it denounces the corruption that is gangrenous in the country. it is strong because it denounces abuses committed in connection with the commercialisation of mineral resources. i would like to stress that all foreign investments must respect human rights, whether they come from china or any other country. i only regret that our heavy european machine did not allow the necessary change of title of our resolution to add the names of the two other victims who died with the italian ambassador. the two victims were vittorio iacovacci, who was a bodyguard, and moustapha milambo, who was a driver. all lives are worth living, whether european or african, italian or congolese. all lives are worth something, whether they are diplomats, bodyguards or drivers. and above all, let us never forget that these rare attacks which kill europeans are unfortunately a regular occurrence in congolese society. while this attack shocked us all, it must not be the tree that hides the forest and make us forget the insecurity and daily violence that rhythm the lives of many congolese men and women.
madam president, ten years later, the arab spring's record alternates between security and humanitarian disasters, as in syria, and the complete absence of progress, as in bahrain. but in bahrain, the european union did not increase its interference. it has let the gulf arab coalition, which is basically saudi arabia, deploy its tanks in manama, the capital of the country. it did not make the headlines, it did not mobilize ngos, it did not lead to the closure of embassies of the member states of the european union. most of the protesters were shiites, which immediately led to accusations of being iran's minions. the world closed its eyes and turned its head. since then, bahrain has continued to be an exception in the arabian peninsula. the country is more tolerant than many of its neighbors. the construction of a vast catholic cathedral is announced in the country and is a sign of this. the bahraini monarchy is full of contradictions, very open in some areas, particularly backward in others. the european union must therefore change its view of the arabian peninsula and avoid adopting an attitude that is only favourable to the sunni monarchies. what we need in the middle east is a policy of balance. the example of bahrain shows this once again.
author. madam president, on 1 august 2020, the free trade agreement between the european union and vietnam entered into force. on 12 august 2020, the eu sanctions against cambodia came into force. human rights and labour law legislation were used to isolate phnom penh, where conditions are much better than in vietnam. the convergence of these two dates is not innocent, it shows that the european union, once again, is exploiting human rights for geopolitical purposes. in asia, we could go further and say that brussels is using human rights to favour some industries and penalize others. cambodia has a peaceful relationship with france, a former protectorate. cambodia is striving to make progress in all areas of human rights and is working with major international institutions to improve what needs to be in its legislation and cambodia is a sovereign state. do we really have enough information to judge whether or not the events of 2019 were aimed at overthrowing the central government? have we asked for a different version than the opposition? who in this parliament knows, for example, that radio free asia or voice of america are free to broadcast their programmes in cambodia without any censorship. i think we need to stop ostracising and get out of the arrogance. we must lift the sanctions against cambodia. this country still has to make progress, but we must accompany it along the way.
in writing. while there is no doubt that europe wants to do good, rural life cannot be written in brussels alone, between the four walls of the berlaymont. the consultation of the actors who live and make our countryside live should not be neglected in order to be in line with the realities and problems of the rural world. the other issue, as many of us have said, is the coherence of public policies. europe cannot boast of defending rural areas and at the same time be sympathetic to the rhetoric against meat products. the millennia-old livestock sector is a key element in the dynamism of our countryside. it allows people, grass, livestock, an economy and local production to be maintained where otherwise there would be nothing but wastelands or urban sprawl. these ancient traditions and know-how which make our rural territories strong and special must be the solid basis of a long-term european rural vision. let's not let the so-called philanthropists teach us a lesson. this will ensure that everyone is safe in their trade and the cows are well protected.
madam president, as we know, this council is starting in a very specific geopolitical context. for the past year, china has been exploiting our weakness in the face of an epidemic that its lies and cover-ups, until now, have largely contributed to making devastating and deadly. now she has decided to respond with violence and intimidation to the legitimate questions put to her. a few days ago, a renowned french researcher was treated by the chinese embassy in paris as a crazy hyena and a little hit. just recently, two days ago, several of our colleagues were specifically targeted by chinese sanctions. we must reiterate our full and unreserved support for them. if the chinese diplomacy is watching us, we say this to them: if you really consider our concerns to be misinformation, then respond. trying to silence us will do nothing to solve the problems you face because we will not be silenced. we will not be silent about what is happening in hong kong today, where the sino-british agreement guaranteeing freedoms is now being trampled underfoot by beijing. it is not interference to say this, it is an appeal to respect international law. when democratic results are crushed in the name of a law that calls for patriotism, europe must remember that patriotism is about loving your country, not obeying your party. we must strengthen ties with countries in the region that resist pressure from china, first and foremost taiwan. this alliance will be a sign that europe will always be on the side of freedom. finally, our parliament will not be able to remain silent when we discuss the recently approved agreement between the european union and china. we cannot ratify it until china has actually signed the ilo conventions and submitted to the relevant controls.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the dawn of european recovery: a handful more states and the recovery plan will be ratified. i therefore urge us collectively to put pressure on these last states to launch the europe of tomorrow, the green europe, the digital europe, the resilient europe. we are paving the way for this by voting today on the three reports accompanying the decision on own resources. after ratification, the union will be able to borrow and issue bonds. we can all buy and obtain a share of them and thus contribute to european renewal. after ratification, the contribution plastics will be born, the first clean resource in 33 years. it is a smart resource that combines environmental protection, european policy and funding; and it's a win because own resources is a marker. i challenge you, ladies and gentlemen, to find a pro-european who would oppose own resources. it is a marker between pro-european and euro-ambiguous. it is a marker between meps and some ministers. it is also a marker between the visionaries and the status quo, the europe shackled by capitals. ladies and gentlemen, we have made a great deal of money. i remind you that this parliament, which is unique in parliamentary democracies, cannot decide on taxation. the fact that we are directly elected by the citizens does not matter. in fact, it never happened. we have only ever been consulted and that is what has prevented us from reforming our budget for 33 years. this time, however, we were able to negotiate collectively, intelligently, sincerely. who in this house still thinks that the heads of state and government have approved this contribution to plastics on its own merits? no one ! without making it a condition of our approval of the budget, without our constant pressure here, in this house, there, in the media, this proposal would have fallen through the cracks like many others before it. let us be aware of this and be proud of this result. but, friends of europe, our fight is not over. we now have a reimbursement agreement and a timetable to adhere to. and what's the next step? it's tomorrow at the european summit. the heads of state will discuss taxation of digital giants. the time of the global tax haven for the big winners of the crisis, the giants of this century, will soon sound like a distant memory. june 2021 is also a highlight in our calendars, commissioner, as it is the month in which the commission will have to present its proposal, in line with the commitment made by the three institutions. june 2021 and no later, without waiting for the oecd, because europe must indeed be the figurehead of tax justice. if we europeans do not lead the way, then a harsh reality will be imposed on all citizens: the reality that tax justice, google, facebook, amazon, alibaba will not participate, and that, i refuse and i think we will all refuse. june will also be the month of the border carbon adjustment mechanism and the carbon market review. we will finally use our budget as we should have been using it for years, that is, as a fiscal tool, in the same way as any state in the world does, for that matter. but too often our tax initiatives, although championed by many economists, researchers and academics, are smashed against the wall of unanimity, the wall of national egoism that has divided us on these issues from the beginning. indeed, unanimity in tax matters does not appease anyone; it only increases the tension between those who complain and those who get it the first chance they get. it is a real thorn in the side of europeans. as a result, the union is now financed by 80% national contributions, turning the council into a battleground where national egoisms clash and, let us say, the european interest is relegated to the role of spectator. this is no longer acceptable. that is why we must now apply a simple principle - i would even say common sense - that if a european policy or instrument generates money, it must finance the european budget, it must integrate it, it is as simple as that. it is as simple to understand as the political obligation which now imposes itself on us: the recovery plan. it must not be paid back by a tax hike or by lethal cuts in our european programmes. there is only one viable solution and we have negotiated it. it is economically and politically viable. we must put the burden on the big polluters here and elsewhere. we need to shift the burden onto the digital giants and the financial speculators. i am confident, ladies and gentlemen, because the achievement of these objectives will be a prerequisite for being able to bring back a little of europe into the hearts of the people. all the polls show it. what do europeans expect from the union? they expect the union to protect them, to protect the environment, to bring about fiscal justice, to soothe relations between our states, and more. the success of europe will be judged by these criteria, and that is now, not just in 2024, when we will have to think about our re-election, ladies and gentlemen. commissioner, dear friends, it is our responsibility as europeans to succeed in the challenge we have set ourselves. own resources are not a technical "machine", they are the mother of all political battles. the accession and the success of the european project depend on it. i think i can say that josé manuel fernandes and i are determined and confident.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has put itself in danger with an unfunded, or at least poorly framed, recovery plan. first, the plastic tax, whose retroactive application will generate revenue, but which will be insufficient and close to epsilon over time. second, the unprecedented complexity of the carbon adjustment mechanism at the border risks undermining its effectiveness. the estimate of its revenue, between 5 and 14 billion euros, ranges from simple to triple, which is at least a sign of a lack of seriousness about this financing plan. beyond the federalist leap in the creation of a common loan, of which no one is unaware of the precedent it sets, the commission's objective of new revenue covering the expenditure linked to the repayment of the loan's principal and interest unfortunately seems to be moving away. more importantly, the fact that the recovery plan finances not only loans but also grants will necessarily imply budgetary transfers between member states. a commissioner confirmed to me during a hearing that the member states would contribute if the revenue from the new own resources were insufficient, as the european union, unfortunately, does not intend to make cuts in respect of certain programmes whose relevance has yet to be demonstrated, or in respect of sumptuary expenditure in relation to the building policy. it will in fact be a double penalty for france. the 40 billion that france will get back will cost more than what we could have gotten on the markets because the cumulative reimbursement will reach 70 billion euros. this is a serious attack on our sovereignty, with increased control by brussels over the french budget and the start of a debt mutualisation which marks a further step towards a european budget, and hence a transfer of sovereignty.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in budgetary matters our parliament must be at the centre of the game. since the 1970s, the share of the european budget financed by own resources, i.e. taxes directly contributing to the european budget, has only decreased to only one quarter of total revenue. for the rest, we must beg the member states every seven years to release the funds needed to implement european policies. it is unacceptable that the european parliament should be the only parliament in the world which does not have control over the revenue of its budget. let us not be afraid of words, this is a democratic anomaly and even a disregard for the prerogatives of the european parliamentarians and the treaties. it is a question of the sovereignty of parliament, but it is also a question of the sovereignty of the european people. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. no matter concerning the revenue and independence of the european parliament shall be considered as technical. the technical nature of a text is for us to judge. parliament is not a recording chamber. parliamentarians directly elected by the citizens of the union must be able to control and shape the future revenue of the european budget. we therefore remind the heads of state or government of the union that we intend to ensure that the commitment made in december 2020 in the interinstitutional agreement is respected. our message is clear and consistent: we want a budget which is independent of the goodwill of the states and national egoism. to achieve this, we will exercise all the prerogatives that are ours without exception.
madam president, although it is difficult to estimate the number, air pollution causes a significant number of deaths each year. it also seriously damages the environment and the agricultural and forestry sectors. this is therefore a matter of legitimate concern for europeans. there are positive aspects to this report, such as the sharing of data across the european union, the creation of new indicators and the inclusion of pollution from maritime transport. on the other hand, the report attacks industry and agriculture, at a time when regulatory constraints should be adapted to the economic situation and technical innovation should be supported. similarly, air quality measurement methods need to be improved and unified in order to act locally, respecting the principle of subsidiarity. finally, let us beware of any unfair measures affecting the daily lives of citizens. let us not miss the target or the solution and remain realistic.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, a year ago you presented a strategy for a relaunch of our partnership with africa. at that time, no one could have imagined that just a few days later, covid would hit and shake the world. this pandemic has shown how vulnerable we are and how intertwined our destinies are. it has exacerbated our fears and our selfishness. but it also showed the strength and the devotion that we can show to each other. this health crisis has brought us back to the basics: life is fragile and health is our most precious asset. to overcome this crisis and build the world afterwards, solidarity and inclusion are keywords. it is on the basis of these lessons that we must renew and consolidate our partnership with africa, leaving aside our protectionist and nationalist reflexes. throughout the discussions i had with them, our african partners have repeatedly stressed that they want to build the future with europe and that the future partnership must be focused on human development, starting with health. why would you do that ? because health is the first of the common goods and creates trust. it is also in the field of health that europe is the partner of reference. it is therefore around this that we must relaunch this partnership. how are we gonna do this ? first, by strengthening health systems with universal health coverage, research and innovation, and by adopting the 'one health' approach in our policies. to rebound from the covid crisis, our societies will need to be resilient. beyond health, this collective resilience will need to be based on the transition to a green economy, the fight against climate change, the production of renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and the protection of biodiversity. this is what i call the 'africa-european union green deal'. in the post-covid world, the protagonists will be young people, as well as women and girls. the recovery will be with them. our partnership should contribute to the fight against inequalities and violence by strengthening access to education for all, including sexual and reproductive rights, and access to digital training. we must be able to count on our young people. to do this, we must focus our efforts on their education, so that they can be masters of their own destiny - this is what we call an inclusive society. our values must also be the backbone of our partnership. so let's give african and european youth the tools to be able to exchange on human rights and governance issues; they're asking us. to make this happen, we will need all 27 member states, not just a few european countries, to invest actively in this partnership, to learn about africa, to live it. africa will have a decisive impact on the future of the world. all europeans must understand the importance and the chance that this partnership represents for us. this is the partnership that this parliament wants: a partnership based on human relations. that's what will make us strong. this report is a good example of this human-centred partnership. it is inspired by exchanges and links with african women and men in more than two hundred consultations with all components of african societies. then this report was drawn up, amended, discussed with all of you. the political groups in this parliament have worked hand in hand to produce this ambitious report which responds to the challenges of the post-covid world and sends a strong message to africans, but also to europeans. i thank you for your commitment, your ideas and your contributions. i also thank you for allowing me to play my role as rapporteur and to carry out what i considered to be my mission: to bring together the african and european visions. this was also made possible by the excellent work of the european union delegations in africa, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks. colleagues, since the beginning of the pandemic, i have been engaging with our partners on health issues, the issue of masks and testing and, more recently, on equitable access to vaccines. we shared our fears, but above all our hopes for a stronger and more united partnership. however, while poor countries have so far received only 0.1% of the vaccines administered worldwide, trust between africa and europe is now shaken. we have a duty to restore it, and that must begin with accelerating the pace of vaccine deliveries to africa. commissioner, this report comes at a time when the pandemic offers us the opportunity to review our relationship with the world, to choose our strategic partners, to define our interdependencies. the recommendation of this report is clear: make the african continent our privileged ally in facing the challenges ahead. this report provides concrete ways of achieving this ambition in all areas - human, economic and cultural - with a new approach based on human links and people-to-people exchanges. as we are about to get new financial instruments, it is up to you, commissioner, to take these proposals and make them a reality in the context of the 'team europe' programme. we will, i promise you, be at your side to carry this ambition forward. my dear colleagues, madam commissioner, let us be proud of the common destiny that binds us all, africans and europeans.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission says it wants to have a partnership on an equal footing with the african continent. that's fine, but there are words and deeds; but is the european union now treating africa as an equal? is it doing so when it is exploiting africa's fisheries resources through industrial fishing, putting local fisheries and the economy that depends on them on the line? does it do so when it promotes ultra-intensive agriculture geared to export, the surpluses of which ruin african farmers and lock the continent into food dependence? is it an equal partnership when we are clearing africa's forests to extract ever more cocoa, tobacco, palm oil or exotic wood, when we accept child labour and human rights violations in mines to ensure our supply of cobalt or other metals needed for the so-called green and digital transition? does europe treat africa equally when it perpetuates a conservation model based on the systematic violation of the rights of indigenous peoples or when it keeps the entire african continent in debt chains? yes, we need a partnership between europe and africa on an equal footing. this report goes in that direction, but the union must now prove by deeds that its relationship with africa has changed. in this time of pandemic, she can make a first demonstration by sharing vaccine patents with our african brothers. so let's not be hypocritical, what are you waiting for to support the proposal made by south africa to the wto?
madam president, at a time when the green and inclusive growth of africa, to use your words, seems to be monopolizing brussels' attention, at a time when china is becoming increasingly aggressive towards africa, a demographic wave of 2.5 billion inhabitants by 2050 is looming before us on the other side of the mediterranean. africa is and will remain a major and indispensable economic partner, which today benefits from national and international strategic aid for its development for the coming century. far from being a guarantee of protection, and given the migratory challenge, of the crossed destinies of our continents, if a dissuasive immigration policy does not quickly resume its noble letters, these aids must and will have to be conditioned first of all and strictly conditioned to the control of migration flows by african states. we know the human tragedies, we know the causes and consequences, both in the flight of vital forces to the countries of origin and in the will of our peoples to remain themselves. yes to co-development, no to guardianship.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a testimony: i have here in this jar a handful of sand collected two years ago on a beach in the mediterranean. there are probably more microplastic particles, microbubbles, in that jar than silica. so, i am here today because of the feeling of powerlessness, but also of responsibility, that i experienced 30 years ago, when i was picking up trash in the middle of the atlantic. i am proud to present my first report from the european parliament on this issue: the impact of marine litter on fisheries, that is, on fisheries and aquaculture. it's also a way for me to celebrate 24 years since my first solo trip around the world, an experience that taught me that you can have dreams bigger than yourself, like wanting to save the ocean, our common good. the stakes are enormous, let's face it, because the waste is added to the climate. what are we talking about? eight million tons of plastic end up in the ocean every year. it ranges from micro, even nano plastic particles to containers lost at sea. we're talking about five trillion microplastics in the ocean. a million marine animals are estimated to be affected. of this waste, 80 percent comes from earth, whose waters already carry chemical pollution. surface litter accounts for only 1% of marine litter. the rest is dispersed, fragmented, by currents in the water column, and up to 10,000 metres deep in the great ocean trenches. the environment is affected, as are fisheries resources, but also the activities of fishermen and aquaculture farmers, as they have to deal with the waste that is collected in the nets or that gets entangled in the propellers. imagine a farmer plowing his field and each time he spades, he brings a handful of garbage to the surface. the economic impact would be 1 to 5% of the sector's profits. this is huge! i would like to point out a paradox here. there is one figure that we are sure of: on beaches, 27% of the waste containing plastic comes from fishing gear or aquaculture. they may have been stranded by storms or incidents of bad weather, but we also know that nets lost or stemming from illegal fishing activities continue to drift. but i have not been able to add this information to my report in plenary so far, as if this pollution did not exist. it is a bit of a bitter taste to see that within this institution we sometimes lack common sense. so what are the solutions? they must be systemic because the problem is systemic, i.e. they must be developed partly at sea but also largely on land. here are a few: first, to increase knowledge, especially on the effects of nano and micro plastic particles on ecosystems, on fisheries resources, but also on human health. secondly, to integrate the link between land and sea much more into european policies, especially in waste management and water management. third, accelerate the circular economy in the fisheries sector and introduce the marking of fishing gear to be able to trace it; simplifying materials and developing bio-based materials; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive on single-use plastics is extended to include expanded polystyrene, which is very interesting but is largely found in the sea, and then to make it more attractive for fishermen to bring marine litter back to ports. finally, a very broad action plan must be launched to tackle the problem of waste and collect it in the areas of accumulation, partly in streams and rivers. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to make a proposal to the european parliament and the commission: to put up a plaque next to the sewers, as we can already see, with the inscription 'throw nothing away: the sea begins here' ... to the european parliament or the european commission, commissioner.
in writing. tourism has just experienced the most serious crisis in its history, a sector which in france represents four million direct and indirect jobs and 8% of gross domestic product. the lockdowns, curfews, the closure of so-called non-essential shops, theatres, cultural venues and museums have killed a sector essential to our economy, and the inconceivable shutdown of ski resorts has caused a shock among mountain professionals. only a wider use of pcr tests could have allowed us to see the end of the tunnel and thus leave the freedom to travel to citizens. the european union has been unable to manage this crisis, in particular because of the accumulated failures since the negotiation of the vaccine purchase contracts and the delay in deliveries. we must give europeans in general and the french in particular the choice of whether or not to be vaccinated, and not threaten to deprive unvaccinated people of any normal social life. a vaccine mandate would seem totalitarian in nature, and would tend to denote a distrust of the elites towards the people. let us act quickly and support those involved in the tourism sector!
on behalf of the id group. madam president, european policy towards the western balkans can be summed up in two words: submission and hypocrisy. submission, firstly, because the european union does not pursue the interests of its member states in the balkans; it serves the interests of nato. hypocrisy, because the various reports claim that kosovo is destined to join the european union, or that albania is about to do so, when everyone knows that this is neither the prerogative of the european parliament nor the will of all the member states. let us be clear: the french are already suffering the disastrous effects of the previous enlargement; they do not want to see the same mistakes repeated. we can see that these enlargements do not live up to their promises: they were supposed to increase our international stature, they make us even more dependent on washington; they are not the same as the enlargements of the community. they were supposed to prevent the emergence of new conflicts, they constantly push for provocation with moscow; the eu and the member states should strengthen our practical cooperation, but the disastrous management of the covid crisis shows otherwise. albania must not join the european union. it exports its mafias to the heart of the french countryside. she signed extradition agreements with the erdoğan regime. it is no longer even hiding its hegemonic inclinations, at the expense of serbian populations who are constantly discriminated against by the international community. albania is now a confluence of the most dangerous foreign influences for the security of nations. the public debate in france will soon give everyone the opportunity to clarify his position on this issue, but i think that the french are overwhelmingly opposed to it and we will not give in to the usual corridor game on these subjects. let us get out of hypocrisy and say it: no to enlargement, no to the entry of albania, turkey's trojan horse into the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one disease that afflicts this house and the institutions of the european union, it is blindness. in your frantic desire to extend the european union to the balkan countries, your federalist desire to submit to nato, which did not ask for much, you are forgetting one of the dangers that threaten our civilization. first of all, how can we ignore the fact that kosovo is not a country recognised by the entire international community, or even by the entire european union? five member states, namely spain, greece, cyprus, slovakia and romania, do not recognise kosovo. for france, the campaign promises made by the french macronist renew mps against the balkans' membership of the european union have been forgotten. what a lie to the voters! but the french will find out and punish these serial liars. more generally, the corruption and crime in the balkans, which will be problems for the european union, are forgotten. the roots of these peoples have been forgotten, they have been uprooted from their historic homelands and sometimes massacred, as happened to the serbs. forget the rampant and aggressive islamization that is gangrenizing the countries exploited by turkey, a declared opponent of the european nations. when i think of turkey, i think of greece, which is celebrating the 200th anniversary of its independence, which was won from the ottomans with the help of france in particular. finally, we forget the rejection by the peoples of europe of this project which is destroying identities and crushing the middle classes. the only answer to the problems you are multiplying would be to advocate ever more europe, ever fewer borders and ultimately ever more migrants. like the frog that wants to be as big as the ox, your enlargement policy will lead this european union to the fatal end of the la fontaine fable. the fear is that brexit will only be a precursor.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, let me start by saying that the rule of law is not a partisan issue, and let’s also establish that there isn’t a single political family, not a single political family, that is immune to corruption and wrongdoing. i welcome the progress made recently in the judicial proceedings. finally, we have one conviction. we have several high-profile arrests in the cases that daphne caruana galizia was investigating. but i also conclude that it’s all taken far too long; that too much time has been allowed for the destruction of evidence, thanks to years of inertia and inaction; and that i regret to note that judges may now have to rely on the testimonies of criminals who will get pardoned in return, just for the judges to be able to build their cases. that is not real justice. i also welcome the process of institutional reforms that has been set in motion. but i also conclude that the political culture has not yet sufficiently changed. i’m concerned that there is too little reform in the internal culture of the political parties, and it’s not a partisan issue. it is an issue of common concern. the need for political responsibility has already been mentioned, but i would also like to emphasise the need for the selection procedures, the vetting procedures for candidates for high political offices to be reviewed, because i still get too many signals of corrupt practices. i’m quite surprised to know that there is somebody who has now temporarily stepped down as a minister, who was taking cash – large cash payments – when having dinner in a restaurant, and that person is now being investigated by an ethics committee. now, i cannot judge the details. i don’t want to judge. but i would say against the backdrop of everything that’s happened, an ethics committee may not be the appropriate procedure. we, in the democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights monitoring group, will continue to monitor the situation, to work towards strengthening the rule of law, and we will do that together with all the people of malta, as europeans, shoulder to shoulder.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we are in malta. the prime minister until january 2020, joseph muscat, participated in email exchanges with his chief of staff, keith schembri, where there was talk of interfering, paralyzing the work of a journalist by accumulating defamation lawsuits. that journalist was daphne caruana galizia. it investigated cases of corruption, in particular in the field of large public tenders for energy. the chief of staff in question was later identified by one of the suspects as a possible accomplice in ordering the murder. and then, today, since saturday, he's facing serious charges of corruption by the justice system. the prime minister, on the other hand, tried to prematurely conclude the public and police investigation on several occasions. this is malta. in november 2020, the former minister of energy refused to answer more than 100 questions in the public inquiry. the former minister of economy has had his name circulated among the suspects. a member of parliament received cash on several occasions. politicians, businessmen, civil servants, a considerable number of people seem to have connections with those who planned and carried out this murder. this is malta. on october 16, 2017, daphne caruana galizia was murdered, a premeditated, organized, financed murder, and one can fear an involvement up to the highest level of the state. the police and judicial authorities were sometimes hampered, to the extent that europol wondered whether it was necessary to continue to work together. this is malta. you can buy european citizenship with a lot of money. you can be a smuggler, a criminal, a tax exile, a terrorist, and you won't be questioned if you have money, like in cyprus, bulgaria, and other places. that is the value of european citizenship. we are in malta; we are in the european union.
mr president, madam president, your visit to ankara has provided a double clarification. recep tayyip erdoğan has no respect for women or the european union. the problem is, we already knew that. the problem is that this trip was poorly planned and it wasn't the first. the problem is that europe has been humiliated twice in three months, in moscow and ankara, by regimes that, instead of being held accountable for their actions, pay for our deaths in our presence. i will be very honest: i am not interested in the presidency among the presidents of the european institutions for a single second. the real scandal in ankara is not so much whether you are sitting on a sofa or on a chair; the real scandal in ankara is the violation of human rights, the attacks on women's rights, the decline of democracy, the hostile actions against european countries, the destabilising role of turkey in libya, syria and the caucasus, and the blackmailing of migrants by turkey. so in the face of this scandal, i would like europe to think a little less about where it should sit and a little more about how it should stand. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, on the day of your visit to ankara i was in yerevan. i visited an armenian hospital that treats the wounded of the last war and when i saw their faces, i felt ashamed to come from europe. shame on the european compromises in the face of erdogan's actions. shame on the kurds who were betrayed in syria after defeating the islamic state. shame on the civilians of libya. shame on our greek, cypriot and bulgarian brothers, whose sovereignty is constantly threatened. shame on the people of armenia, a brotherly people of europe, abandoned to unilateral aggression and who had to face alone erdogan's drones, his jihadist mercenaries, his cluster bombs. i was in erablur, where thousands of young people are laid to rest who died, like so many others in the opposing camp, only because erdoğan decided that violence was better than diplomacy to advance his interests. it is an absolute crime in itself, committed by a head of state who refuses to denounce the armenian genocide, which should be enough to alert us here. but it is also a terrible precedent: we are allowing the second nato army to violate international law with impunity. and the only thing that shook europe was a missing chair. since the beginning of this debate, it seems that the first problem with turkey is a problem of protocol. but let's keep our eyes open! european civilization has so much to say to the world, so much good to do, and europe also has so many levers to use if it wants to. the first sign would be to demand that all armenian prisoners of war still held in baku be released without delay and that this war crime be brought to an end. if europe wanted to, europe could. it is time to recover the sense of essential urgency.
in writing. the scene that took place in ankara on 6 april is destined to go down in the annals of international relations as the most scathing humiliation inflicted on the highest instances of the european union, in this case charles michel and ursula von der leyen, respectively president of the council and president of the european commission. this is a scene which shows the mediocrity of european leaders on the one hand and the insignificance of the union on the international scene on the other. we all remember the sad spectacle of the president of the european commission standing, speechless, facing the turkish president, recep tayyip erdogan, and the former belgian prime minister, smiling, comfortably seated in two armchairs. the treatment of mrs von der leyen is symptomatic of a contempt for women, a direct consequence of the islamist drift imposed on turkey by erdoğan. in the face of authoritarianism in domestic politics and military interventionism in foreign policy, european leaders have always turned a blind eye and continued to finance turkey with billions of euros. this accident is a sign of unacceptable servility and condescension, and the time has come to put an end to the eu accession procedure for turkey once and for all.
mr president, commissioner, the european civil protection mechanism is a fine symbol of cooperation between states. it allows countries affected by disasters to call on european solidarity through a voluntary system of mutual assistance. but it took the commission and the federalists to take advantage of the health crisis to take it over. on the grounds of a better capacity to react, which can legitimately be disputed, you will not only deprive the states of this relic of sovereignty, but also pervert it, since part of the resources will be located outside the territory of the union and entrusted to international bodies. you are turning a mutual aid system into yet another centralised and standardised procedure, and by removing the decision-making centre, this bureaucratic governance will prove ineffective. civil protection must remain a national competence and promote solidarity between the peoples of europe.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the desire expressed by this parliament to see the european union as a whole taking a full account of the preservation of soils and their quality. i think that to achieve this we will need to be able to define clear priorities collectively with all the institutions. i think there are three principles that should guide us. first, to preserve our soils, we must ensure that we have enough of them left. if erosion is a real global issue that affects our continent, uncontrolled artificial development and urbanization are the first threat we must face. the rapid expansion of artificial surfaces is the exact opposite of sustainability. it is a national competence today, but it is undeniably a common challenge. secondly, for both our forests and our agriculture, our first objective must be to preserve and restore living soils, for reasons of biodiversity, climate, productivity and sustainability. in short, this is the first result we must aim for. third, the good agricultural practices permanent grassland, soil cover or carbon storage that are well known and already applied in many territories need to be identified, encouraged and rewarded, either by the market or by public agricultural policies. the common agricultural policy is already doing its part and can do more. economic actors have a role to play in promoting these practices in their storage. if we do not disperse, this approach is realistic; it is easier to implement today than it was yesterday, because we have made progress in soil quality assessment tools that are now easier to use. to achieve these ambitious goals, we have a responsibility to recognise the work already done by farmers who are fully aware of these challenges. soil is the work platform of those who cultivate and care for our land, and who are the first to be concerned with its sustainability.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the iccat recommendation, which is the basis for the transposition of the resolution to the plenary today to close the first reading, was adopted in dubrovnik in 2018. the commission's very slow timing in transmitting the text resulted in a new iccat recommendation in 2019 which i have incorporated into the text, taking into account the new needs of the sector. i stress this temporal aspect because i believe it is crucial to fully understand the meaning of our work and the reasons which have guided my choices and those of my colleagues in handling the dossier. in 2018, we didn't have to deal, of course, with covid. but even then, there was a discriminating fact: many member states, despite the recommendations of the parliament, the european commission and even iccat, continued to opt for an unbalanced allocation of tuna catch quotas. in many member states, small fishermen were given very small quotas, which we felt was the right thing to do within the limits of the powers of this parliament. fortunately, in recent years the bluefin tuna population in our seas has not only stabilized but has increased to the point where iccat has increased the annual quotas to be allocated to individual member states. the 2018 recommendation, and the 2019 recommendation, obviously couldn't take into account the devastating effects that covid would have on small-scale artisanal fishing, which, as we all know, has been there. we have therefore taken steps to amend the directive in this respect. we have fought for the extension of the fishing season in the event of adverse weather conditions and we have also included the case of public health reasons, such as the current pandemic, for example. we have also paid particular attention to the problem of by-catch fishing and controls on farms where bluefin tuna are caged. in the trilogy, this was our battle: we have made this clear to the commission and the council from the outset. we have succeeded in getting the call for greater attention to small-scale fishing to lead to the amendment of one article, namely article 12, which states that the member states must, wherever possible, distribute quotas in a more balanced way, taking into account the needs of small-scale artisanal fishing. as you can see, it's a very reasonable request. it is not a tax but a recommendation that respects the autonomy of member states to decide how and to whom to allocate bluefin tuna fishing quotas; the commission has already made a number of proposals, and it is a proposal on which almost all the political groups have agreed. yet, a few weeks after the conclusion of the trilogue, when ratifying the agreement reached, the council decided to take a step back and to contest the very request for greater attention to be paid to the allocation of quotas. it is precisely those countries, starting with italy, which allocate an insignificant percentage of quotas to artisanal fishing. at this point the question becomes purely political and calls into question the role of the council in relation to that of the european parliament. it seems to me that the member states do not want to accept the idea that institutional practices are central to the definition of the democratic process. if the german presidency decides in november to close the trilogue by approving a package which has also involved our making concessions on other equally important issues, then to go back on its own feet and reject the outcome of a negotiation means that parliament's role is degraded in an unacceptable way and that the rule holds that whatever the decision is, it will eventually yield to the demands of individual member states. i think that is unacceptable and i would add that we risk setting a precedent for which the democratic process has no reason to exist and parliament's demands that 'let us stress this once again' as the only body elected by the citizens within the institutions of the european union are being trashed because that is what the individual member states want. i repeat: it's unacceptable and dangerous! that is why, in agreement with the shadow rapporteurs and with the support of almost all the political groups, we have opted for the closure of the first reading. we are doing this because we want the council to know that parliament is firmly committed to defending the results of the trilogue and that we are in no way prepared to condone this humiliation of parliament. i say this also to the portuguese presidency: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is a foundation of the european union's workings and no one should ever forget that. contributing to the development and subsistence of small-scale fisheries also has a purely ecological function in terms of environmental sustainability and conservation of water and fish resources. small fishermen represent a sector with a smaller impact on marine fauna and flora. it is also essential to help a sector which is unfortunately still suffering from the effects of the crisis. i therefore ask you to support us in this battle, which is crucial in many respects, but above all to highlight the role of the european parliament and to avoid creating a dangerous precedent and, why not, having to prove once again that you are helping small-scale fishing and small fishermen.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr ferrandino, the shadow rapporteurs and of course all involved for their excellent work and efforts to advance on this important file. after 11 years of implementation of a recovery plan in the context of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the status of bluefin tuna stocks has indeed improved substantially. this is why in 2018, iccat agreed to move from a recovery plan to a management plan. this transition from a recovery to a management plan is, however, not a step back towards an unregulated fishery, but rather as a logical transition from emergency measures towards a more coherent and sustainable long-term management framework for this resource. since 2018, the scientific advice has confirmed that the biomass of the stock has been growing. bluefin tuna is now in good health with the highest historical biomass. but of course we need to remain very vigilant as always when managing fisheries resources. in this context, the transposition of the iccat management plan into eu legislation is necessary to allow the operators, and in particular small-scale fishermen, to enjoy more flexibility on accessing the resources while at the same time strengthening control measures to guarantee the sustainability of the resource and of the fisheries exploiting this resource. so this is good news for our fishermen and women as after difficult years of recovery measures they can now again benefit from the higher catches. the provisional agreement that was reached between co-legislators in trilogue on our proposal was a good result and would have allowed to properly implement the iccat management plan in the eu. let me say that the commission regrets that the council could not accept the provisional agreement reached at the last trilogue. the commission fully supports the efforts by the co-legislators to find a new compromise in a transparent way, respecting the prerogative of all three institutions. i would like to underline that the final agreement needs not only to respect the international obligations of the eu but also give legal certainty to the eu operators as soon as possible. it is in the very interest of our fishermen and women that this international management plan for bluefin tuna is transposed without further delay. and again, i can only reassure you that the commission will continue to work with the european parliament and the council and to assist the co—legislators as an honest broker, with a view to finding an acceptable way forward that would meet the objectives, concerns and constraints expressed by both co-legislators.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, many people will be asking themselves today what the tripartite dialogues are for. it seems that nothing has changed, because after achieving a balanced agreement, with everyone giving in, which called for the specific characteristics and needs of small-scale bluefin tuna fishing to be taken into account, a few member states have inexplicably refused to accept the agreement which parliament, the commission and the council have signed. unfortunately, the spanish government has been one of the few member states which has refused to respect the agreement. but why? why do they not respond to a historic demand and refuse to accept that transparent and objective criteria, including environmental, social and economic criteria, are used and that equitable national quotas are distributed among the different segments of the fleet, with special attention to traditional and artisanal fishing? why do they insist on distributing quotas so unfairly? they do it with bluefin tuna, they do it with tuna, they do it in the atlantic and also in the mediterranean; they demonize certain fishing gear; they limit fishing days, leading to the ruin of many fishermen; they exaggerate controls and bureaucracy; and they are healers with aid. and i wonder: why this policy of harassment towards fishermen? that's enough! we are committed to artisanal fishing, which is intrinsically linked to the traditions and customs of coastal areas and communities that depend on fishing. that is why we are today reiterating to those insensitive governments, including, unfortunately, the government of my country, that we know that the allocation of quotas is their responsibility, it is the responsibility of governments, but also that nothing and no one can prevent this parliament from telling them that these quotas are to be distributed fairly and that they should take into account small-scale fishing. i am not going to give up on that, and that is why we shall vote tomorrow to reiterate the agreement reached in the tripartite dialogues, which is nothing but a fairer distribution of quotas.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, after more than 11 years of severe restrictions on the european union's bluefin tuna fisheries, and with the sector making a huge effort to survive the difficulties, a new management plan for the eastern atlantic and mediterranean fisheries was finally drawn up. this plan provided for the promotion of the use of selective fishing gear and techniques with a reduced impact on the environment, such as traditional and artisanal fishing. one example is the almadrabas, which in andalusia have been sustainably fishing for bluefin tuna for centuries. the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks confirmed by scientists, this parliament is only trying to prevent us from making the same mistakes again. we can't go fishing like we used to. we want transparency and a fair distribution of quotas with small-scale fisheries, demanded by the sector and the whole of society. i ask the council, which is absent, to approve this agreement, because it is a demand of the whole of society and the sector.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, this longterm management plan for bluefin tuna in the mediterranean and atlantic is good news. we overcame with it more than a certain risk of collapse that affected this species in the first decade of the century. the recovery plan has worked and we can replace it with a long-term management plan like the ones we have for many other species; a plan that ensures the protection of the stock at sea; a plan that allows the sector to continue working and gives it stability by allowing it to plan its activities in the medium and long term; a plan that translates into community terminology the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the report also includes a guarantee clause, based on the experience gained during the pandemic. fishermen will have scope to recover fishing days that they may eventually lose due to the application of covid-related mobility restrictions. the music, therefore, sounds good, but some note is out of tune. the unusual refusal of coreper to sanction the agreement reached on 10 november in a tripartite dialogue obliges me to break a spear again in favour of the role of parliament in the fisheries sector. my first report when i came here 12 years ago was on an anchovy fisheries management plan which got into an institutional conflict with the council. since then parliament's positions in favour of scientific criteria for fixing fishing quotas and greater transparency have continued to advance. and we will continue to work to ensure that transparency and science put an end to the obscurantism that some governments seem to yearn for in fixing tacs and to the last-minute surprises that add to the fishermen's activity a risk and uncertainty that are perfectly avoidable.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, a few years ago bluefin tuna became the symbol of the excesses of overfishing and industrial fishing. almost 80% of atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna had disappeared and the species was threatened with extinction. today the situation has changed. the tuna stocks are in a better state, but the battle is not yet won. we must remain vigilant, but bluefin tuna is becoming the symbol of successful conservation measures. significant reductions in fishing effort can allow fish stocks to be rebuilt. let us pay tribute to the work of ngos and scientists, who have done a tremendous amount of alerting and awareness-raising. thanks to them, the bluefin tuna is not extinct today. but at the same time, bluefin tuna has also become a symbol of injustice, the difference in treatment between industrial and small-scale fisheries. while the bluefin tuna quotas are increasing, it is not the small fishermen who are benefiting from this increase; i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that i am very pleased with the commission's proposal. in france, small-scale fishing accounts for 12% of the quota, in italy for 3% and in portugal for 13%. is this situation acceptable? i say no, and i am glad that the majority of the european parliament has taken this view. is it normal that a fisherman who fishes for swordfish with longlines and who will necessarily fish for bluefin tuna should only be entitled to a quota of five for by-catches, when tuna seiners are entitled to thousands of tonnes? member states must commit to more justice. we have negotiated with the council for a fairer distribution of fishing quotas. we had reached an agreement, but several states, including france, had the agreement rejected by the council. with this vote this week, the european parliament reaffirms its position that we are ready to return to the table. for our group, an agreement will have to come about through a commitment by the states to a fairer distribution of bluefin tuna quotas.
mr president, commissioner, the demand for bluefin tuna, as has already been said here tonight, has led to the species being virtually endangered by overfishing. however, iccat has implemented a recovery plan which has involved very tight management and control measures over several years. the measures implemented have had an effect and the recovery of this resource has been achieved with the efforts of the entire fisheries sector. in its negotiating position, the european parliament called on the member states to ensure that a specific sectoral quota of this species is allocated to small-scale vessels. it seems to me a more than fair way of compensating for the effort and contribution that these small vessels have also made to the recovery of this species and that they could in no way be left out of the equation. i would like to express my gratitude and full support for the work done by the rapporteur and the whole negotiating team to reach an agreement that does that, and i hope that this plenary tomorrow will show strong support for this position.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for your interventions and valuable views. i have taken due note of the various points raised during this debate. at this stage i can only reiterate that the commission fully understands the position of the european parliament and that we will continue to work with both institutions to ensure that the concerns expressed by the co-legislators are properly reflected and that this important management plan is fully implemented so the fleets and the operators can have legal certainty.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on international trade on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement on trade and cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, of the other part, and of the agreement between the european union and the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland on security procedures for exchanging and protecting classified information (05022/2021 - c9-0086/2021 - 2020/0382rsnle)) the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the negotiations between the european union and the united kingdom (2021/2658p)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, after a very intensive four—year period, we have now reached the point where the eu—uk trade and cooperation agreement (tca) can be formally approved, an agreement that protects european interests and ensures fair competition as well as continued cooperation in areas of mutual interest. this will allow us to enter into a new phase of our relations with the united kingdom. it is clear that there are still issues to be settled in terms of the full implementation of the withdrawal agreement. the portuguese presidency has followed the situation in northern ireland very closely. we are very concerned with the resurgence of sectarian violence in recent months and fully support the efforts to reach out to stakeholders in all communities. the eu must remain committed to the good friday agreement and to the people of northern ireland. implementation of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland is a fundamental step in bringing stability to the eu—uk relationship. this must be a joint endeavour with no room for unilateral actions. i share some of the same concerns that have been raised by the european parliament and also by the commission in this regard. the uk’s lack of compliance with the withdrawal agreement is indeed not acceptable, but we know that the commission has taken legal and political steps to bring the uk into full compliance, and we support this commission’s effort. we also share the analysis of the commission that retaliation measures available to the eu to react to non—compliance from the uk side become faster and sharper with a trade and cooperation agreement. we can therefore also from our side confirm that the council is ready to swiftly adopt the agreement should the european parliament vote its consent today. this has been a priority of the portuguese presidency. the conclusion of the tca will give legal certainty to the eu—uk relationship in the interests of citizens and businesses. after the full entry into force of the agreement, we will have to remain vigilant and united in its implementation. eu unity, including amongst the institutions, has been key to the success of the negotiations. good cooperation between the institutions will equally be crucial in going forward. the european parliament’s role has been important throughout the whole process and its engagement, notably on citizens’ rights, has proved very useful. i trust that the european parliament will continue engaging in the years to come as a crucial element of the new relationship with the uk. the european parliament will remain fully informed and involved, in accordance with the eu treaties. in the interests of the union and to build a stable and solid relationship with the uk, a neighbour and an old ally that we value as an important partner, we would welcome the commitment of the european parliament to the timely entry into force of the trade and cooperation agreement by 1 may 2021.
president of the commission. – mr president, dear minister, cher michel barnier, honourable members, it is now just over four years since the uk’s letter triggering its withdrawal from the european union was ceremoniously handed over after its journey from london to brussels. looking back, that event now feels like a theatrical footnote of brexit history, and part of the reason it feels so distant is because so much has happened between the eu and the uk since then. but when preparing for today’s debate, i thought i would take the time and read the letter itself. and rather to my surprise, it actually helped to offer some perspective and some cautious positivity both about what today’s vote entails but also about our future relationship. i say that because the letter reminds us of the unique nature of our partnership, forged together over decades and built around our shared values and history. it also made the case for a special partnership that, and i quote: ‘contributes towards the prosperity, security and global power of our continent’. and what struck me most was the way it laid out the sheer scale of the task ahead of both sides – just how much we had to do and how complex it was going to be. it finished by saying, and i quote again: ‘the task before us is momentous – but it should not be beyond us’. standing here today, we can all agree it was indeed a momentous task, carried out with the highest stakes on the line. and i want to take this opportunity to once again thank michel barnier – our chief negotiator – for guiding us through this task. in these four years, we saw a lot of change, whether in presidents or prime ministers, in red lines and deadlines, or in different definitions of what brexit really means. but when all is said and done, what you are voting on today is momentous in terms of what it represents and in terms of what it secures. it represents the unity, responsibility and solidarity within the european union to protect the interests of our citizens and our union. in the last months, we have often talked about what the trade and cooperation agreement is not, and what it does not do. but as this house prepares to have the final say, i want to recall what this agreement is, what it does, and why it is so important to make it work. firstly, this agreement protects european citizens and their rights. it helps to avoid significant disruptions for workers and travellers, from the fishing community to the business community. second, it protects european interests and it preserves the integrity of our single market. it guarantees the robust level playing field that this house always prioritised – rightly so. and it ensures high levels of protection on everything, from social and labour rights to environmental protection, from tax transparency to state aid – you name it. and third, this agreement comes with real teeth – with a binding dispute settlement mechanism and the possibility for unilateral remedial measures where necessary. let me be very clear: we do not want to have to use these tools. but we will not hesitate to use them if necessary. they are essential to ensure full compliance with the tca and with the withdrawal agreement, which were both negotiated in such fine detail – and agreed by both sides. honourable members, on this point of compliance, i know that there was some reluctance in different parts of the house on whether it is right to ratify this agreement when existing commitments are not being respected by one side. i agree with you that this agreement on paper is only as good as implementation and enforcement in practice, and i share the concerns you have on unilateral actions taken by the united kingdom since the agreement came into provisional application. we have, obviously, seen a number of issues arise since then. some were to be expected, others are teething issues, and many are the consequence of the type of brexit the uk chose. but regardless of the reasons, we need to focus on joint solutions. unilateral decisions will get us nowhere. and this is one of the reasons ratification is so important. it will give us the tools we need to ensure full and faithful compliance with the obligations which both sides signed up to, and it will also focus minds on finding pragmatic solutions where they are needed – most urgently around the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. and on this front, i am glad to report some progress on the work being led by vice-president šefčovič as co-chair of the withdrawal agreement joint committee. in recent days and weeks, we have seen a new, constructive dynamic, and we will continue to work closely with the uk to find constructive solutions that respect what was agreed. the next step is to mutually agree on compliance paths, with concrete deadlines and milestones. to support this process, vice-president šefčovič will continue to engage with all stakeholders in northern ireland, to listen to their concerns and to see what needs to be done. we need solutions, not soundbites, if we are to make the protocol work for the benefit of everyone in northern ireland. this is the commitment and responsibility we all took when we agreed to the protocol. and the european union is steadfast in its determination to make it work. honourable members, i want to stress the importance of proper parliamentary scrutiny to ensure the uk fully delivers on its commitments. this house has a long history of protecting and supporting the people and the peace on the island of ireland. in just a couple of weeks, it will be 40 years since a little-known report adopted by this house put that commitment into motion. at first glance, the so-called martin report – adopted at the height of the hunger strike – may appear an unremarkable housing, social and regional policy report. but thanks to the leadership of john hume in particular, it ensured for the first time that the question of peace and prosperity of northern ireland was seen as an explicit issue for the european union. this was the beginning of an enduring commitment of this house to the people of ireland and northern ireland. and as john hume himself used to say: ‘there are no easy answers, no quick-fix solutions’. this is why your continued support and scrutiny will be so important for the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and in particular on the protocol. and i want to assure you that this parliamentary involvement will also be there for the trade and cooperation agreement. in this spirit, the commission has today set out its commitments in a declaration. we will ensure that parliament is immediately and fully committed and informed of the activities of different committees and councils established by the agreement. we will ensure that parliament is involved as appropriate and necessary whenever important decisions are taken under the agreement. and we will submit a proposal for a legislative act to regulate how autonomous eu measures should be adopted. this is part of our much wider commitment to ensure a continuous and comprehensive dialogue on all aspects of that deal. honourable members, we know it will not always be easy, and there is a lot of vigilance, diligence and hard work ahead of us. but while today’s vote is obviously an end, it is also the beginning of a new chapter. the choice is now whether today’s vote will be the high watermark of the eu-uk relations for the next decades, or whether we see this as the foundation of a strong and close partnership based on our shared values and interests. only history will tell what road is taken, although i hope for the latter. but either way, this agreement is essential to help us move forward. and either way, the task will be just as momentous as it was in that letter four years ago. so, to finish on the words of the great british poet, william wordsworth: ‘let us learn from the past to profit by the present, and from the present, to live better in the future.’ long live europe! (applause) * * * commission statement on the role of the european parliament in the implementation of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement(in writing) [articles of the tca have been updated to the new consecutive numbering retained in the authenticated versions of the tca] the commission, without prejudice to its own prerogatives and those of the council, intends to give full effect to the european parliament’s prerogatives according to the treaties in the implementation of the trade and cooperation agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, of the other part (the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement). in particular, in line with article 218(10) tfeu, the commission will ensure that the european parliament is immediately and fully informed of the activities of the partnership council, the trade partnership committee, the trade specialised committees and the other specialised committees established by the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement, subject to the necessary arrangements in order to preserve confidentiality. the information will, as a general rule, be provided to parliament also through the responsible parliamentary committee and, where appropriate, at a plenary sitting. in duly justified cases, the information will be provided to more than one parliamentary committee. the information concerns the briefing and debriefing before and after meetings of the joint bodies as well as sharing all documents pertaining to meetings of these joint bodies at the same time the commission shares them with the council. this includes draft agendas, proposals for council decisions establishing the union positions in these bodies, draft decisions of such bodies, as well as minutes of their meetings. the co-chair of the partnership council representing the union will also inform the european parliament on a regular basis. these working modalities are continuing the practice developed in the context of the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union and are based on the objective of ensuring a high level of transparency and sincere cooperation between the union institutions. moreover, the commission considers that, given the exceptional character of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement, an adequate involvement of the european parliament is necessary when important decisions are taken under the agreement in relation to:- the unilateral termination by the union of the agreement or parts thereof;- the notification by the union of the wish to enter into negotiations with a view to concluding an updated protocol on social security coordination in accordance with article ssc.70 [sunset clause] of the protocol on social security coordination;- the intention to negotiate an amendment of the agreement following a review under article 411 [rebalancing] of the agreement or following the review of the agreement to be carried out every five years as foreseen in article 776 [review]. in relation to these decisions, the commission will inform the european parliament sufficiently in advance of its intention to present a recommendation or a proposal, and of the gist of its envisaged recommendation or proposal. the commission will take utmost account of possible comments of the european parliament in that respect. it also commits, in case it does not follow the position of the european parliament, to explain the reasons for which it did not. furthermore, the commission recalls that the cooperation provided for in part three [law enforcement and judicial cooperation in criminal matters] of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement is based on the parties’ and member states’ long-standing respect for democracy, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, including as set out in the universal declaration of human rights and in the european convention on human rights, and on the importance of giving effect to the rights and freedoms in that convention domestically, as well as on a long-standing commitment to ensuring a high level of protection of personal data. for the european parliament to be in a position to exercise fully its institutional prerogatives in accordance with the treaties, the commission commits to inform the european parliament sufficiently in advance of its intention to present a proposal for a decision by the union as follows: - decision to terminate part three [law enforcement and judicial cooperation in criminal matters] of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement in accordance with article 692(2) [termination] thereof in the event that the united kingdom denounces the european convention on human rights or protocols 1, 6 and 13 thereto;- decision to suspend part three [law enforcement and judicial cooperation in criminal matters] of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement, in accordance with article 693 [suspension] thereof in the event that the united kingdom no longer gives effect to the european convention on human rights domestically, notably in such a way as to no longer allow the convention to be effectively relied upon by individuals before its domestic courts;- decision to suspend part three [law enforcement and judicial cooperation in criminal matters] of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement in whole or in part, in accordance with article 693 [suspension] thereof and to consider whether a temporary solution in accordance with article 693(7) thereof can be put in place in order to avoid the suspension taking effect or to reduce its scope, until a new adequacy decision may be adopted by the commission in accordance with article 45 of regulation (eu) 2016/679 or article 36 of directive (eu)2016/680, as the case may be, in the event that an adequacy decision taken by the commission with respect to the united kingdom in accordance with article 45 of regulation (eu) 2016/679 or in accordance with article 36 of directive (eu)2016/680 ceases to apply, notably if it is repealed or suspended by the commission or invalidated by a final court decision. in addition, as regards the selection process leading up to the establishment of lists of potential arbitrators and panellists by the partnership council and the trade specialised committee on level playing field for open and fair competition and sustainable development, pursuant to respectively articles 752 [lists of arbitrators] and 409 [panel of experts] of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement the european parliament will be invited to nominate one of the members of the selection panel established by the commission in order to assist the commission in the selection of candidates to be proposed to the council. it should also be recalled that with regard to the autonomous measures that the union is entitled to take on the basis of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement, the commission is committed to submit to the european parliament and the council a proposal for a legislative act regulating the modalities for adopting such measures. the commission will inform the european parliament, as appropriate, of its intention to adopt autonomous measures. moreover, the commission will take the utmost account of the views expressed by the european parliament regarding the implementation of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement by both parties, as well as its review and ensuing modifications by the parties. when examining complaints as well as any other information at its disposal in relation to possible breaches of the agreement or to imbalances in the level playing field, the commission will take due account of the views of the european parliament as per paragraph 5 of the statement by the commission and the council on the monitoring and implementation of the trade and cooperation agreement. the commission will also keep the european parliament fully informed of the commission’s assessments and decisions concerning data adequacy, as well as of the arrangements for regulatory cooperation with the uk authorities on financial services and the possible granting of equivalences in financial services. the commission recalls that these working modalities have to be seen in the context of the exceptional character of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement, which is a comprehensive agreement with a country that has withdrawn from the union, and do not constitute a precedent for any other agreements.
mr president, mr david, madam president of the commission, mrs ursula, mrs ana paola, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, mr president, i would like to thank you personally for this exceptional invitation. i'm aware of this honor, but i'm also very happy to see you again, sincerely. with your vote today, we have come to the end of a very long journey that we have travelled together over the last four and a half years, since the majority of british citizens voted for brexit and since that letter that ursula von der leyen mentioned, which triggered the article 50 procedure. i am reminded at this moment of many highlights in your democratic assembly: the parliament's resolution of 5 april 2017, where you set out very early on the objectives, challenges and principles of the negotiation; the vote on withdrawal on 29 january 2020; and i have not forgotten the moving moment when you said goodbye to all your british colleagues, nor all the discussion we had about the new relationship. what all these moments and many others between plenary sessions - committee meetings, your group meetings, the weekly meetings of the brexit steering group or the coordination group - show is the vigilance, attention, seriousness and confidence of parliament, which have never been in error. i think that, together with the unity of the 27 on which we have worked every day, this confidence and vigilance of the european parliament has been one of the union's great strengths in this negotiation. i say this to you as your former negotiator. that is why i want to thank you, mr president, mr david, and your predecessors, martin schulz and antonio tajani, and then each and every one of the group chairmen, the committee chairmen, of course each and every member of the brexit steering group and its chairman, guy verhofstadt, and each and every member of the coordination group, with david mcallister, and all the administrative teams that have accompanied you, and parliament's interpreters, of course. together, we have seen through these four and a half years a method, a goal, a perspective. the method was very clear: transparency, vigilance, dialogue - here, of course, but also in each of the capitals with governments, heads of state and government, trade unions, economic communities, civil society, transparency. this has been one of the keys to the unity and trust we have achieved with each other. the aim has always been to build a new relationship with the uk, despite brexit, and to make this divorce - a divorce is always negative - as orderly as possible through these two treaties. then we had a perspective, or rather, ladies and gentlemen, three points of view which i would like to recall by telegraph. firstly, this has been your priority and mine too: the citizens, the rights of the citizens and, amongst those citizens, those who live in ireland. in ireland, it is not primarily about trade, goods or technology, it is about men and women, it is about peace which is very fragile. that is why i think, as the president of the commission said, that it is very important that in ireland, because it is a question of peace, everyone takes responsibility. i know, because i have worked with him for a long time, that maroš šefčovič will take on this responsibility on behalf of the commission, and i thank him for that. everyone must take responsibility and respect their signature. it is a question of peace, it is a question of lasting trust between the united kingdom, ireland and, of course, the whole of the european union. the second point of view is the single market, the main asset in global competition which enables us to be respected, to defend our interests, our values, which we had no right to weaken and which we have not weakened. the british, because they chose brexit, also had to bear the many, often misunderstood or underestimated consequences of their choice to leave the single market. the third point of view is that of our lasting relationship with this great friend, neighbour and partner country, the united kingdom. there are so many risks and challenges ahead of us that we must preserve this spirit of cooperation. i have often thought of what jo cox, that young british member of parliament, said when she made her first speech in the house of commons about the united kingdom (but i think what she said also applies to the relationship between the united kingdom and the european union): 'we have far more in common than that which divides us'. that is why we have always looked at this difficult, sometimes very difficult negotiation in perspective, beyond the economic situation, the sustainable perspective of the future and of our relationship. just to conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen: brexit is a divorce, it is a warning and it is a failure of the european union. we must learn from this as politicians, here in parliament, in the commission, in the council, in each of the capitals. why did 52% of the british vote against europe? there are reasons for this: the social anger that exists in many regions in their countries, as well as in our countries, in the union. we must listen to and understand this popular sentiment - i repeat, we must not confuse popular sentiment, this social anger, with populism - and therefore we must do everything we can to respond to it in each of our member states at union level, to continue to demonstrate the added value of what we are doing together, to ensure the means of our prosperity, our independence and our security. this will be one of the issues at the forthcoming conference on the future of europe, which opens in a few days' time. that is my message, as i speak to you for the last time in this gallery, thanks to you, mr president - at any rate, to speak to you for the last time on this subject. it has been, ladies and gentlemen, be assured, a real privilege for me and for the european commission team to work with you, with each and every one of your groups, whatever your sensibilities, throughout these years, a privilege to work in a climate of trust, mutual respect and often, i believe, friendship between us. - thank you. - thank you. a lot of it. (parliament adopted the resolution)
thank you, thank you to mr barnier. i thank you for your work and for always showing great attention to parliament.
the rapporteur mr president, madam president, mr vice-president, madam secretary of state, allow me to begin by sincerely thanking michel barnier for being here today. michel, you have done an extraordinary job, you led the brexit negotiating task force and you have ensured, above all, the strength of the european union, its unprecedented unity under your leadership. i hope that we will find the same unity for other issues, for our relations with other partner third countries. thank you very much, michel, for all you have done for the european union. today the european parliament has the regrettable duty to really get brexit done. this plenary debate and vote concludes four months of intense scrutiny of the trade and cooperation agreement (tca) in all its different dimensions, whereas the house of commons barely had a few hours to do so. although it is true that this parliament never liked the fact that the att was provisionally applied before we could deliver our verdict, this situation has given us the opportunity to observe the att in action. however imperfect the trade and cooperation agreement is, it has the merit of having cushioned the worst impact of the economic brexit this year. nevertheless, provisional application without parliament's prior consent, president von der leyen, cannot be a precedent for any future procedures, and i believe that, as a parliament, we have made this abundantly clear. i am today recommending that this house give a positive vote to the tca. the uk government, however, should not mistakenly take this for a blank check or a vote of blind confidence in its intention to implement the agreements between us in good faith. no, they should see this as the eu taking an insurance policy against further unilateral deviations from what was jointly agreed, not least because a positive vote on the tca means that we are expanding our legal tools and leverage to continue pressing for full and pragmatic implementation of the northern ireland protocol. the protection of the hard-won peace on the island of ireland through the good friday agreement has been the eu's number one concern ever since the referendum in 2016. the protocol was, and is, the eu's and the uk's joint response to the conundrum of exiting the single market and avoiding a hard border. so instead of playing fast and loose with the terms of the jointly agreed protocol, repeatedly undermining the necessary trust for our new relationship to evolve, the uk government should own up to the agreement it co-signed. the tca will be one more tool to hold the uk government to account should they deliberately seek to undermine the protocol. infringement proceedings under the withdrawal agreement are under way, and i want to call upon the commission to pursue them with vigour. should they, however, be met with persistent non-compliance, then we can resort to the tca to suspend, for example, our obligations under the tca, like reimposing tariffs or quotas, if necessary, as a last resort. but our real leverage definitely lies in the tca, and i sincerely hope that we will not go that far and that vice president šefčovič and lord frost can come to an agreement in the form of a credible roadmap that will see the protocol fully implemented. there is sufficient room for pragmatism and flexibility once all the provisions have been implemented, and we continue to believe that the protocol is the best way to safeguard the peace in northern ireland. a positive vote for the tca, which has secured unprecedented levels of market access, also means increased legal certainty for companies that are operating under very difficult circumstances these days with the supply chains affected by brexit and by the pandemic. plunging our companies into renewed uncertainty would be hugely irresponsible. a positive vote means preserving and solidifying the unprecedented and hardwon level playing field they got, which this parliament has heavily advocated in favour of. we should be under no illusion that there are those in the house of commons that would seize any opportunity to fully break free from those hard won provisions. last but not least, a positive vote today does not mean that the parliament resigns its duties or relinquishes its oversights quite the contrary. the president of the commission has made a clear declaration enshrining the parliament's institutional oversight, setting in stone the future role of the parliament as a watchstock for this agreement. therefore, the parliamentary partnership assembly should take up its functions sooner rather than later so that we can monitor together the implementation of the tca and continue to build bridges across the channel, because our fates and future will always and inextricably be interlinked. for those reasons, dear colleagues, i strongly recommend you to ratify and vote in favour of the tca today. it is the only responsible thing to do for our businesses, for our companies and for our citizens. let's move on.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, today we do the final legal step on the brexit saga. we create certainty for our businesses and also a clear legal framework for the future relationship between great britain and the eu. the ppe will support the agreement today and the overwhelming majority in the committee on international trade-committee on foreign affairs (inta—afet) joint committee gave us already a clear idea that the content is a good base for the future. i want to thank also michel barnier for his great work. he has always delivered, he has always served the european interests, and also in this regard he delivered and he did a good job for us. in london they recognise now, step by step, that johnson cannot deliver on his promises, but i think we did our job, to do our best. thank you so much, michel, and i also want to thank our colleagues in the house, so guy verhofstadt, david mcallister, as the leading personalities, but also the rapporteurs and all colleagues who contributed. our big concern, and ursula von der leyen mentioned this, our worry is now the implementation, the question of trust. when i grew up, uk diplomacy was for me a symbol of credibility, a symbol of a treaty-based approach, an interest-based policy. today when we see the northern ireland protocol implementation and how johnson behaves, the message is: ‘i don’t care. i don’t care even about my signature.’ that’s the new great britain we have as a partner on our side. with the trade and cooperation agreement (tca) the commission will have more power, more tools in the future to push for a proper implementation, and that is needed in the interests of the citizens, of the people of europe and of great britain, as the violence in northern ireland shows us. and for us, it’s also a chance, because with the lack of credibility in great britain in mind, we, as europeans, can show you can trust in europe. the tasks ahead of us are clear. first of all implementation, and that’s why the scrutiny process is, for us, a key responsibility. we will continue our job and i thank ursula von der leyen for her clear commitment in this regard. the second political message is also clear. we have to tell people brexit is a lose-lose situation. we have a lot of victims – i want to remind you again of the students who cannot benefit any more from the erasmus programme – so we have a lot of these victims, so it is a lose-lose situation and we have to be clear, the responsibility is in the field of the brexiteers. it is in the field of boris johnson. the violence of northern ireland is the brexiteers’ violence – they are responsible for this. that has to be clear. and the third task, on the long term. i truly believe that we can re-strengthen the relationships in the future. there will be another future government, there will be another generation in great britain who will understand that they cannot answer the global challenges as europeans without a united europe. it requires a united europe. we wait. we will welcome this new generation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the trade and cooperation agreement linking the european union and the united kingdom since 1 january has enabled us to avoid a chaotic brexit that would have distorted the economy, aggravated the effects of the pandemic and sowed uncertainty in the future. the loss of a significant partner is no cause for celebration, as we heard this morning. but after four years of complex negotiation, we can say that the key objective of the european union to maintain a free trade area for goods with the united kingdom, based on the triple motto 'zero tariffs, zero quotas and zero unfair competition', has been achieved. mr barnier, i would like to convey to you the socialist group's sincere appreciation of your extraordinary work. we are aware of the enormous effort made in a particularly difficult context by the pandemic and by the intransigent attitude of the other side of the channel. brexit represents the great lie of the british right. boris johnson promised the uk the restoration of full sovereignty over its borders, its laws and its waters. the reality is different: part of the british territory, northern ireland, remains within the customs union and the internal market of the european union; gibraltar will join the schengen area on the basis of the principle of an agreement between spain and the united kingdom, and it will be madrid that ensures that the schengen rules are applied in the colony; london will face penalties in the event of unfair competition in the tax, labour and environmental fields; and british fishermen claim to be the big losers of the agreement. four months of separation show that the europe of borders is nothing but the pain of the old nationalism. the first effects are already being felt: uk exports to the european union plunged by 40% in january, while imports have fallen by 28% since the beginning of the year. the increase in unnecessary red tape, the cost of transport, the truck lines and the shortage of food in supermarkets in northern ireland also reflect the nightmare that workers, businesses and students suffer on a daily basis. even more dramatic is the return of violence to northern ireland after two decades of reconciliation. vandalism has only one culprit: the groups that stir up the riots. but there is a political explanation behind the violence. mr johnson decided that northern ireland should remain within the european union while cynically assuring the unionist parties that there would never be a border between great britain and northern ireland. it is time for mr johnson and the unionist parties to explain to their citizens that the european union will never amend the protocol on ireland because it is a key instrument to defend its own interest, which is none other than the peace achieved with the good friday agreement of 1998. mr šefčovič, on behalf of the socialist group, i thank you for the enormous effort you are making to reach an amicable agreement and i ask you to continue with the instruments we have from now on if london continues to flout border controls. the achievements so far in the negotiations with the united kingdom should serve to reflect on what we are capable of achieving when we are united, when we are the twenty-seven. it is thanks to the european commission, the 27 member states and the european parliament that they have been able to act in unison, to ring the bells of the 'divide and conquer' approach that london has been using for centuries to stop the emergence of a european hegemonic power. with brexit done, the time has come for the european union. the idea of a 'two-speed' union, traditionally promoted by the united kingdom, must remain in the memory of history. we know that the project of european integration has been forged step by step, turning failures into steps forward. before brexit, the european union survived other turbulent times, and it did so in the best way it knows how: by deepening its integration. this is how we must respond to the uk's exit and the pandemic crisis. it is time to take decisive steps towards strategic autonomy which will enable us to survive as a first-rate actor. joint debt issuance to tackle pandemic debt, our global leadership in the battle against climate change, the pillar of social rights, etc.: these are the elements that should make us strong within the international arena as well. let us act with courage in the face of necessary reforms and with optimism in the face of difficulties. is this not how the european project has grown since the treaty of paris, now 70 years old? brexit should make the british public reflect on the harm of voluntary isolation. for our part, we must extend a loyal hand of friendship to the british. we have a lot in common, not just with the past, but with the future. we still have agreements to be made on services, and we must do everything possible to develop a constructive partnership on foreign and security policy. the responsibility for the mistakes and populist leaders should not fall on future agreements. on january 1st, our 47 years of dating came to an end. if we allow reason to prevail, time will tell if brexit sets the countdown for a new meeting.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, we are at the moment of the balance sheet. almost five years ago, on 23 june 2016, the united kingdom made the sovereign choice, by referendum, by an absolute majority, to leave the european union. this decision was not entirely a surprise: the united kingdom had hardly experienced the federalist leap forward and had already refused both the schengen agreements and entry into the euro. for three years after that, here in brussels, everything was being considered to finally prevent brexit from happening altogether, to turn the tables, as it were, and to actually annul the result of the referendum. everyone was going about it according to his own little plan: new elections, a new referendum, a parliamentary vote - in reality, we have witnessed a total loss of calm. a small floral display of statements from the time. jean-claude juncker, ursula von der leyen's predecessor, said that 'there can be no democratic choice against the european treaties'. donald tusk, then president of the european council, said: "i wonder what the special place in hell will be like for those who promoted brexit. other and guy verhofstadt, always nuanced and subtle, said, and i quote, "the brexiteers would even manage to divide hell". these grotesque remarks, in which the extreme argues with grandiloquence, actually show the totally dogmatic, quasi-religious conception of the european federalists. then negotiations began between theresa may and michel barnier, both of whom opposed brexit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the ballot box will have to speak a second time to finally respect the will of the people. when boris johnson came to power in late 2018, in less than three months, he secured a renegotiation of the deal that was claimed to be immutable. so there were a lot of postures to cover a lot of weaknesses. this political saga is finally coming to an end. we wish our british friends well, because they are leaving the european union, but they remain profoundly european. the united kingdom is and will remain a great friend, neighbour and ally. it is interesting to see that the european institutions have finally moved from one excess to the other. after initially wanting to trample on the british people's choice and then punish the united kingdom, they finally gave in to everything once brexit became inevitable because, my dear colleagues, what did the british people want? well, they wanted to continue to have full access to the single market, without tariffs or quotas, to be free from the inflation of european standards and law, and to be free from the decisions and case law of the court of justice of the european union. they got everything. while they will no longer be able to go backwards from current european standards, they will not be required to align with future european union standards, nor to transpose them into uk law. in short, the future standards and constraints on our economic actors, who are the trademark of the european union, will increase the competitiveness of the british by the day, to the point of creating, of course, situations of unfair competition. by regaining their commercial sovereignty, the british will be able to increase economic agreements with the rest of the world and thus provide a gateway for goods to the european market. so in the end, your obsession with free trade overcame your desire to punish the british, and you finally gave in to everything. the united kingdom is now a third country, both a partner and a rival, and will of course defend its interests, and it is up to us to be able to defend our own. but these five years of hesitation, of ideological posturing, to defend our interests in the end very weakly, are not without consequences, for example on fisheries, a fundamental subject which should have been at the heart of the negotiations from the beginning and which was dealt with in two weeks, in the end, in haste, under the threat of no agreement, to finally justify the sacrifice of our interests. i met this weekend in my region of normandy with fishermen who are suffering from the decisions taken unilaterally and brutally by brussels. the nordic fisheries sector represents 24 000 direct and indirect jobs, an essential and excellent economic sector. it is threatened by the european negotiations which have made french fishing a profit and a loss. in the face of this brexit which calls into question the great tenets of the european union, you are allowing yourself one last little blow: in the resolution you are about to vote on, you are preaching to the british people for the last time, but what does it matter? we can see this in the vaccination campaign: the uk is now able to vaccinate four, five, six times as many people as france, germany or italy. today, the european parliament is unfortunately relegated to its usual role, that of being the recording chamber for decisions taken elsewhere and which have already been implemented since the beginning of january.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr bay, you have made an unambiguous plea for leaving the european union. i would simply like to ask you to listen a little more to your boss, marine le pen, who has clearly changed her trajectory to advocate today for france to remain in the european union. maybe there's a little alignment problem between you and her, but it's not something that's very surprising coming from your corner of the house. ladies and gentlemen, is the trade and cooperation agreement with the united kingdom a good agreement for the european union? i would say that no such agreement is a favourable substitute for full membership of the european union. this is something that everyone here knows, but in the circumstances the agreement is the best way of protecting the interests of the european union, in particular the integrity of its internal market. i would like to express my warmest thanks to the qualities and the man who showed them, michel barnier, to his intelligence, his vision, his stubbornness, his sense of dialogue... i know that if i continued, the tears would come quickly, so i will avoid putting too much weight on myself, but michel, thank you very much for what you have achieved in these almost five years. now, this agreement will be a good agreement for the union if one of the two conditions i am going to set out to you is met. the first is that the united kingdom is honouring its signature and there can be no doubt about that. the current british government, under prime minister johnson, has shown how little respect it has for both the british rule of law and the agreements it has signed. so, in the absence of that trust - a trust which, i repeat, has been broken by this british government, because if we have violence in northern ireland today, it is first and foremost because of the lies, i say many lies, of prime minister johnson who made the northern irish believe that nothing would separate them from the united kingdom, whereas the separation agreement and its irish protocol very precisely indicate the differences in treatment between northern ireland and the rest of the united kingdom - but therefore, in the absence of any trust that can be placed in the british government, we must be able to rely on the european commission and on the political will that it will have to use all the means at its disposal by voting for the separation agreement and the agreement that we are going to vote for today to impose on the united kingdom its own commitments. on this point, madam president, i must tell you that the european commission has not had a spotless career. i remember the reluctance it has shown in the past - this was well before your time - to tackle chinese solar panel dumping or, more recently, south korea's failure to respect its labour rights commitments. so there's really work to be done on that side. the area of greatest concern to us is data protection. it's an open secret: the uk is one of the world's champions of widespread surveillance. how can the uk's protection of personal data be considered equivalent or adequate when it is known that it is spying on its own citizens on a massive scale? in this respect, madam president, the commission's draft decision on the adequacy of the uk data protection measures seems to me to be guilty of a certain lightness. by voting today on the treaty with the united kingdom, parliament is, in a way, giving up its main lever in implementing the agreement. it is therefore an act of confidence, and a double act of confidence: firstly, it is an act of confidence in the commission, so that it can show its determination and resolve in protecting the interests of the union, but it is also, ladies and gentlemen, an act of confidence in the british people. just because the country is now run by a government that has proven itself unreliable does not mean that it will always be so. we know the difference between a people and their government. whatever the attempts of this government to separate the british people from the european union, we are bound together by geography, history and culture and so, inevitably, we are in the same boat. we have embarked on a joint approach to the many challenges of the 21st century.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not the debate today is indeed a historic turning point in european history. but the fact that, just five years ago, a member of the european family decided to leave the family circle says a great deal about the problems and the wrong policies within the eu itself. we haven't been able to convince people to stay. and michel barnier, whom i would like to thank for his work here, also pointed out in his speech that not only many britons, but also millions of europeans and eu citizens are suffering from the fact that in recent decades the neoliberal axe has been systematically placed on social security systems and public services have been subordinated to the interests of the market and not to the needs of the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is an intolerable scandal, and that is why the lesson of brexit for us today must be: no more of the politics of social cold, no more of an equitable distribution of wealth, no more of a publicly funded health care system, no more of a strong public welfare system with good jobs and good wages and social security that deserves its name. that would be the task of european politics, that would be the lesson we have to learn from brexit. today i can say with pride that the left group played an important role in shaping the debate on the relationship between britain and the european union. from the very beginning, we have made it clear that citizens' rights, labour and social standards, environmental standards and consumer protection need to be central, not only in this trade and cooperation agreement (tca) but in every european trade agreement. we would prefer stronger enforcement mechanisms in the tca, but we are pleased that parliament understood the importance of workers' rights and environmental standards. we should translate this understanding into improvements in the european union itself. and we are particularly proud of the role our group played in raising awareness of the good friday agreement and the peace process in ireland and in shaping the irish protocol. now we should together ensure that the people in the north of ireland, both british and irish citizens, have a special place in the political dialogue with the eu institutions. but we will need to be vigilant in the years ahead to make sure that this government in london respects its commitments. we know from experience that the british conservatives will use every opportunity to get out of legal commitments, as they have done with the withdrawal agreement. we look forward to continued friendship with the british labour movement, with the social and environmental movements and with the millions of british citizens in building and improving our common european home. ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a difficult decision. in the last few months the johnson administration has irretrievably lost all confidence. the millions of workers, but also their companies, deserve planning security for their jobs, for the maintenance of supply chains, for the continuity of trade relations. but one thing must be clear: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. the agreement itself provides for further possibilities and i am glad that, also under pressure from my group, it has succeeded in excluding the unspeakable, opaque and private arbitration tribunals in order to subject the resolution of future trade disputes to democratic control.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i am glad that the european parliament finally made the sensible and responsible decision to put this vote on the agenda today. further institutional coercion, mud-throwing would be pointless. our citizens, our businesses need stability, and it is essential that the agreement comes into force on 1 may. without it, the negative effects would be much stronger. of course, that doesn't make me less convinced that both sides are losing out to the british withdrawal, as the declining trade and traffic figures since january have shown. everyone must understand that an era has ended. the british not only left the eu, they left the single market and the customs union, and so the free movement of people and the free flow of trade ended. all of this will have a significant impact on the daily lives of people and companies. the deal won't work miracles, it won't bring the uk back into the union. the british have left, and that is their decision to be taken into account. we must learn to adapt to the changed situation. our primary responsibility is to protect the interests of our citizens and companies. we must therefore ensure that the rights of eu citizens who have settled in the uk before the brexit decision are not affected in the future and that the conditions of competition for companies are the same on both sides of the channel. time-consuming and costly inspections come with the movement of goods. i ask the commission to do this in a way that causes the least possible disruption. then we can expect the british to do the same. let's get past the injuries, minimize our losses.
madam president, the consent of the european parliament to the trade and cooperation agreement marks the end of an unprecedented process, but, above all, it marks the beginning of a new chapter in our relationship with the united kingdom, an important neighbour, an important partner and a loyal nato ally. as previous speakers have mentioned, indeed since the provisional application of this agreement on 1 january, we are witnessing practical difficulties. indeed, this agreement is not completely exhaustive. provisions on foreign policy and security cooperation are lacking and all of us deeply regret that the united kingdom will no longer participate in the successful erasmus+ programme. indeed, it is clear that more work will be needed to broaden and deepen our new partnership with the united kingdom in the upcoming years. however, it has always been clear from the beginning, that even an agreement as comprehensive as the one we are voting on today simply cannot replace eu membership. a third country cannot have the same rights and benefits as a member state. yet this trade and cooperation agreement is a solid legal basis for our future relations with the united kingdom, it gives people and businesses on both sides of the channel legal certainty and prevents the cliff—edge brexit with trade on wto terms that we were all determined to avoid. during the negotiations, it was not self-evident that a deal could be reached by the end of the transition period. the talks were very challenging and certainly complex. allow me also to thank our chief negotiator, michel barnier, and his team for their outstanding work and for the very good cooperation with parliament’s united kingdom coordination group (ukcg). now the agreement must be implemented. the practical difficulties that we have witnessed in the first weeks of the provisional application result from the type of brexit that the uk government has chosen for itself. with regard to the worrying situation in northern ireland, it is clear to us that the implementation of the withdrawal agreement, including the protocol on ireland and northern ireland, is the only way to protect the good friday agreement. it is the only way to preserve peace and stability, while avoiding a hard border on the island of ireland and also maintaining the integrity of our single market. the european union has always been, and the european union will remain, fully committed to work on practical solutions, but let me be absolutely clear. the protocol is not the problem. the protocol is the solution to the problem. the name of the problem is brexit. as we, the european parliament, continue to follow the situation closely, we also need to play a key role in the implementation and scrutiny of the withdrawal agreement and also the trade and cooperation agreement. in this regard, let me commend our commission president, ursula von der leyen, and our vice-president, maroš šefčovič, for the commission’s clear commitment to the future role parliament must play while monitoring and implementing the agreement. finally, allow me to thank everyone involved in this in so many ways unprecedented and challenging negotiation process, the members of the uk coordination group, in which we worked very well and constructively together across party lines. i would like to thank president sassoli and the group leaders in the conference of presidents, as well as the parliamentary committees, for their trust and the good cooperation with the members of the ukcg. i would also like to welcome the staff involved, who worked so tirelessly in recent weeks. while brexit is, and will always be, a lose-lose situation, the negotiations have once again shown that our strength as the european union lies in our unity. we should all keep this in mind when further developing our community of states. (applause)
madam president, parliament is here today to write history, giving final consent to the trade and cooperation agreement that, from now on, will govern the relationship between the european union and its former member, the united kingdom. in doing so, we cannot avoid a certain degree of mixed feelings. on the one hand, while fully respecting the will of the british people, we do regret brexit because it is a sad page in the political history of europe and also because it is damaging and damaging for everybody; for the eu, even more for the uk, for our citizens, our economic interests, our common interests in this challenging world. but mixed feelings, because on the other hand we are completely sure that, now that brexit is a fact of life, to approve this trade and cooperation agreement is the right thing to do for the benefit of our citizens and our interests. in fact, it would be a mistake to miss the future by looking backwards to the past. the time has come to look ahead and to build a new future—oriented relationship with the uk based on our common values. but we can only give consent to this agreement because it is a good agreement, and let me warmly thank michel barnier and his team for his remarkable work, for always informing this parliament and also for keeping us united, which is in itself also a remarkable achievement. this agreement is an important damage control exercise. it avoids the no—deal scenario and it provides for a new framework for open and fair competition in unprecedented terms and also with unprecedented enforcement mechanisms. looking ahead to this new implementation phase, we very much welcome the recent declaration of the commission and the work done by maroš šefčovič on the role of the european parliament in the implementation of this agreement. and finally, as the european parliament rapporteur for the implementation of the withdrawal agreement, let me make clear that we will continue to fight for citizens’ rights, and we expect from the uk nothing less than full compliance with the commitments under international law. so, we support the infringement procedure initiated by the commission and we very much hope that the talks going on on this implementation, on finding a roadmap for full implementation, can be successful. so let’s build a new partnership with the uk and let’s begin by ensuring full implementation of the agreements we’ve just signed.
madam president, mr barnier, mr seefcovic, brexit has come into effect on 1 january. since then, the negative consequences of what can only be called a historical error have been observed day by day. uk trade with the eu fell, while eu exports to london remained stable. more and more skilled workers are returning to the continent where there are opportunities. european students are deserting british universities... all of this is a consequence of brexit and must be borne by those who supported it. more worryingly, tensions are re-emerging in northern ireland where peace remains fragile, where the eu's role in the good friday agreement has arguably been underestimated and where the difficulties inherent in brexit have been totally ignored. our responsibility as meps is to limit the damage of brexit as much as possible. that is what we must do today by ratifying the cooperation and trade agreement. this agreement allows us to continue our close relations with our british partners, while protecting the interests of europeans. but our responsibility does not stop there: we must ensure that the commitments made by the british government are fully respected. on northern ireland, boris johnson is turning the tables and pretending to ignore what he signed. this does not solve anything, quite the contrary, and the commission was right to initiate an infringement procedure. the british authorities are increasingly bothering european fishermen with administrative problems. here again, the commission must calmly but firmly demand compliance with the agreement and protect our fishermen. finally, ladies and gentlemen, because europe has signed an unprecedented agreement with london, our parliamentary control must also be unprecedented. our ratification is not a blank cheque, either to london or to the commission. what we have defended throughout the negotiations we will ensure is respected in all respects. the time for naivety is over in this parliament too.
madam president, now that brexit has happened, the eu needs to have the strongest possible relationship with the uk. even if we regret their choice to leave, as we do, and despite the fact that the way to today’s vote has been a long and winding one, we have still a lot of things that keep us close. therefore, we needed a good post-brexit deal, and the tca, despite some shortcomings and concerns – for instance on data protection – overall establishes a positive framework for this new partnership. but let’s be clear: an ambitious zero tariff and zero-quota trade agreement like this can only happen on condition that at the same time there is zero social, environmental, fiscal and regulatory dumping. therefore we will be extremely attentive to the implementation of the provisions that ensure there is no regression and no divergences over time in social and environmental protection standards. a trustful partnership between the eu and the uk also requires the withdrawal agreement and the northern ireland protocol to be implemented in all its dimensions. we are fully committed to protecting the good friday agreement, shielding the peace process and avoiding a hard border on the island of ireland. finally, let me underline something that hasn’t been brought to today’s debate yet. let’s not forget that brexit went ahead despite some constituent parts of the uk voting against it. and on top of that, the welsh and scottish governments have not been sufficiently consulted by london during the tca negotiations. for our scottish friends, the tca might be the lesser evil to keep ties with the eu, but it is also a painful consequence of a decision imposed on them – a decision they did not take. for them, as well as for an increasing number of people in wales, the best possible relations with the eu is not the tca. it certainly keeps being full membership in our union. i hope they soon can rejoin us once they take a democratic choice in favour of independence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that the vote on this agreement has been scheduled for this plenary session. it was not a foregone conclusion and our group has repeatedly stressed at the conference of presidents the importance of the vote in the april part-session, putting an end to any uncertainty and ensuring predictability and clarity about the future of the uk-eu relationship. we also believe that parliament should be involved in the implementation of the agreement. we therefore hope that parliament will be informed on an equal footing with the council as co-legislator. our group has from the outset respected the legitimate and democratic choice of the british people and the subsequent decisions of the british government to trigger the withdrawal procedure provided for in article 50 of our treaty. we have always maintained the importance of finding a fair agreement free of the hatred - which, unfortunately, we still breathe in some speeches today - and the punitive spirit, considering the scale of the issues and the significant impact that the agreement will have on european and british citizens and businesses. we therefore welcome the agreement reached and on this occasion we congratulate the chief negotiator, mr barnier, and his entire negotiating team on the excellent work they have done. positive is a trade agreement based on the principle of zero tariffs, which is going in the direction we wanted from the beginning, as well as measures on public procurement, telecommunications, customs, aviation, maritime trade and digital, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises. the roadmap that the united kingdom presented to the european union on 31 march and the recent progress between the united kingdom and the european union on the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and on border checks on goods arriving in northern ireland from great britain. at the same time we want the good friday agreement to be fully respected in order to guarantee peace and stability in northern ireland. but this, as far as we are concerned, is only the beginning of laying the foundations for building positive relations with the uk and working constructively to resolve further practical issues and make progress in other areas, such as trade issues on both sides of the channel affecting european businesses, the recognition of professional qualifications and investment protection. in this connection, let me also make a reference to the brexit adjustment reserve which we are dealing with, as it is very important in order to provide support to the member states. it is essential to start consultations for ad hoc coordination with a joint parliamentary assembly with representatives of the european parliament and the british parliament. i would like to conclude by reiterating that while it is true that the united kingdom is leaving the european union, it is also essential to establish a strong and privileged partnership, also in the light of the present and future challenges that we must overcome together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the united kingdom is the european union's third trading partner and the first in importance among the countries with which we have concluded a trade agreement. the approval of this agreement is essential because it finally brings the clarity that our businesses and our citizens deserve after years of uncertainty. thanks to this agreement, almost all european exports will enter england duty-free and our citizens will be able to visit without visas. yet this is an agreement which we approve not without some reservations: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, the issue of professional qualifications, which is essential to ensure the mobility of thousands of european professionals who work and want to work in the united kingdom, but also services, which are largely absent from this agreement, the movement and protection of personal data, the automatic updating of the list of protected geographical indications and mutual recognition issues. in all these areas we must reach a broad and comprehensive agreement as soon as possible and avoid many mini-brexits, many mini-agreements that can prolong uncertainty for years. brexit has cost our citizens and our businesses a lot: let's make this deal a chance to move on.
madam president, brexit was never going to be easy, but with 40 years of close cooperation between us, it did not need to be this hard. but today should only be a day of decisiveness. so i will vote to ratify the tca and i urge every single member to do the same. my regret is that brexit has actually occurred and has created a lot of unnecessary tension and conflict on the way. many political issues are still contentious, both within the uk and the eu. and although businesses have been faced with severe difficulties many are coping and discovering new potential avenues and solutions. the flexibility and resilience of the private sector and civil society should be commended for this. securing the tca took years of effort across the eu institutions. it’s never been a secret that ireland would be the member state most affected by brexit. michel barnier, my friend and esteemed negotiator, has effectively become an honorary irish man for the understanding he has shown for our unique situation. yet i must also commend the diligent, tireless and attentive role that vice-president šefčovič has played, especially in recent weeks. thank you vice-president. the tca protects us from the damaging consequences of a no-deal outcome and provides a new, more stable basis on which to rebuild eu-uk relations. ratification will also provide certainty to our citizens and businesses. the vote today follows many weeks of scrutiny of all aspects of the tca agreement, especially as no such scrutiny took place in westminster. on the protocol, what is still needed is courageous and responsible leadership to actually use the existing structures to ensure the protocol functions in a way that works for everyone, north and south on the island of ireland, as well as protecting the single market. other easier alternatives were offered, but this is the path that was chosen. it does every citizen a disservice if some political leaders hide from this fact. on a broader level, in march 2019 my then colleague, richard ashworth mep, spoke passionately in this house, saying no british prime minister explained what the eu did, what are the benefits and why it matters. they never defended untruths that were spoken and they never took ownership of the decisions they took in council. he was right. brexit should be a cautionary tale for the people of europe. but even more so it should stand as a cautionary tale to the leaders of europe because brexit is applicable to every member state. i hope that the lessons of holding such a pivotal vote like brexit, without sufficient preparation, are not lost on us. this is not a process that should be emulated by any democratic nation, especially on the island of ireland. please vote for the tca.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thanks a lot for your patience and for your commitment and for your tough negotiations. i think that's really important with respect to the british government, which is not the most trustworthy government we've ever known. so once again, thanks a lot for that. a famous football coach once said, "after the game is before the game". and that's exactly what it's about: we must now see to it that we use the trade and partnership agreement to shape the future relationship and implement it. there is, of course, the question of financial services: we want to cooperate with the united kingdom in this area too, of course, but it is not possible for financial services to enter the european market which are not based on sound practices and sound revenue, and we must also put financial services under european supervision. or: we will be watching very closely whether the level playing field is being respected. in the uk there are discussions about export zones, export aid, which should then act under dumping provisions. that's not acceptable, of course. we are also very much aware of the debate on changing the working time legislation in the united kingdom, which might also bring unfair advantages and harm to people, to workers. we will also be very careful here to sharpen our instruments to ensure compliance. we will of course also be looking very closely at northern ireland. it is totally unacceptable that there are unilateral measures and i would also ask boris johnson to stop being the theatrical thunderbolt and really stick to the agreements and not add more fuel to the fire and stoke the conflict. we have found a solution that will secure peace in northern ireland - let us guarantee that too! we have also ensured in the agreement that we can impose sanctions if there are irregularities - by the way, this is also a model that i would like to see in other trade agreements. i also think it is good that we have agreed to cooperate very closely with the commission and parliament, so that we as a parliament can also take the initiative. i think that is also important for future agreements - that parliament can really exercise democratic control here. so here's the thing, after the game is before the game. and let me say to the british people, whatever the johnson government is doing, really you are staying european, our doors are still open, they are open, and you will never walk alone.
madam chairman! first of all, i would like to thank michel barnier and his team for their tireless work on this matter. brexit has no winners, only losers. this is clear from the past year of tightening the noose and uncertainty about the future involvement of the british in the european community. i myself have had the pleasure of visiting farmers and fishermen, industry, talking to traders, to students who are in trouble. yes, virtually everyone who says that it is in every way an accident that a country so large and so close to us should choose to come out. it's a disaster for them. it is a disaster for us, and it is first and foremost a disaster for ordinary people who are caught up in this relationship and who will unfortunately have to live with the consequences of boris johnson's lying behaviour. never before have two parties negotiated to make the cake smaller. since world war ii, well, all trade negotiations have been about doing more trade with each other, not less. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but that is what we are doing now, and we have now been bogged down with the agreement we are adopting today, so that we can hopefully move forward. it has been very difficult, not least because we have seen how the british themselves have cast doubt on whether they would even abide by the agreements they themselves signed. we hope that they will do so, but we must also make it very clear from the european side that we cannot and will not gamble with the eu's internal market. we must also ensure a level playing field in the future, and we will therefore be following developments very closely. and if it turns out that the british are not living up to their commitments, then we will be fully prepared to act on the part of the european union, and we are ready to act on the part of the european parliament.
madam president, a british citizens’ organisation once told me that there is more interest in commodities, fish and trucks, than people. citizens were never the core issue of this story. there were talks on taking sovereignty back, but we all know it was in fact about getting power back again on the business rules, and it then became, for the european union, about protecting and strengthening its own market. article 50 did not allow the eu to come in front of those living in the uk, to fight for what was at stake and defend its concept of european citizenship. once brexit started, there was no consultation ever again on the outcomes and the challenges, and in the future it is not planned that citizens will be part of the monitoring. all this time, the eu considered that it was not its place to address the citizens directly, and the uk chose not to. but now citizens are paying a high price. in the uk, eu citizens will be selected to see who is worth staying. administrative failures are preventing some people from registering and others have registered months ago but get no news and, in the end, there will be no paper document to prove their status. in northern ireland, the eu was not given the authorisation to implement a permanent representation so, there again, in a context of tensions boiling over and uncertainty, the eu renounces fulfilling its responsibility to the inhabitants of northern ireland. in the eu, uk citizens will face different situations. member states have not got the same rules and will not give the same rights. students will not get scholarships. some people are at risk of losing jobs and houses because of problems with their residence permit. and what about all of those the member states are not managing to reach? the vulnerable and the precarious ones. will they be near-to-stateless people in the european union tomorrow? and where is the european one—stop—shop with enough resources to help all of these people to go through the next years?
madam president, on 18 december, right here, as a warning and a few days before the conclusion of the agreement between the european and british negotiating teams, i said that we must avoid a permanent negotiating situation at all costs. we will of course vote for this agreement, aware that we cannot call into question the important achievements it represents, but also aware that the first four months of implementation have not been the easiest for the fisheries sector in particular. i want to take over this sector, with which i have had a lot of contact over the last four months. i know, commissioner, that you and commissioner sinkevičius are committed to reaching an agreement on the 2021 quotas, particularly as regards the issuing of licences by the uk authorities, but we need to restore visibility to the fishing sector, which was already too low. for some of the fishermen i saw in boulogne, it was simply part of the activity that had disappeared since 1 january. for those, we will be on the same page with the brexit adjustment reserve, we will not let them down, it is important to say that again. but i also want to say, on the fisheries front, that what has opened up with this brexit agreement is a global destabilisation of what is happening in the north atlantic. this has had consequences and a snowball effect, as it were, with greenland and norway. so, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that in the years and months to come we can remove the fog that has engulfed fisheries since 23 june 2016.
mr president, the sovereign choice of the british people is clear and i think that choice must be respected. i do not think it is very appropriate to call it a historical error, as we do in the resolution, because history will judge. she's indifferent to our protests, she's indifferent to our predictions. but it is our duty here and now to respect and protect the interests of europeans, and that is where i have a concern, particularly for workers. boris johnson has announced that he wants to create a kind of european singapore at the gates of the union, to set up free ports without customs and tax controls and there, we must defend the workers. i do not trust the commission alone to defend these interests. the european parliament should be involved, but it is not. the unions should be involved, but they are not. that is my concern today. there is a real democratic problem, and to defend the interests of the european workers we must be more vigilant, more determined. the future will tell if we can defend them properly.
mr. president, i feel tremendously proud. when i vote on this treaty tomorrow, here in this european parliament, i shall be proud, first of all, of the negotiating team led by michel barnier, and of all of us. we faced the cheapest, stale populism of the media, of political leaders in the english banquet, who tried at every turn to provoke a change in our mood. our spirit has remained european, firm, transparent and responsible. and i think that is what we are going to have to celebrate tomorrow, without forgetting that there are still many aspects of this negotiation: there are our irish friends. all of us, united as we have been for the last three years, are with them and want the best of the situation for ireland. let us see if the irresponsible british politicians who are still playing with fire on this issue will stop now and follow the european model of coexistence and solidarity in the case of ireland. we also have fishermen friends, not only in spain but in many european countries. we in this parliament will be very attentive to what happens in the coming months with this british government. not only the negotiating team, not only michel barnier, who has also reflected the spirit of the christian democrats who founded the european union, who always maintained, and that is the secret of future negotiations with the united kingdom, that we must maintain a great relationship with the united kingdom, why not, as long as they want to. and there are many people in the uk who want to do that, there are many people living in spain, in mallorca, for example, 'the region i know well'. thousands of british citizens have felt abandoned. we have to be there for them, too. that is why we are europeans and i think that is what we will undoubtedly have to celebrate tomorrow.
president, commissioner, madam minister, after the tumultuous transition period, it is now time to focus on the future. and then a future where it is about people and their reality, because the reality is that many people on both sides of the north sea have been affected by brexit. we must not leave these people in the cold and with the agreement now in place - thanks in part to the strong pressure from the european parliament - social protection, good working conditions, environmental standards and consumer protection are better embedded in our relationship with the uk. however, we must ensure that the level playing field agreements between the eu and the uk are maintained. brexit must not lead to deregulation of the uk labour market. null contracts and uncertain contracts have always been the norm in the uk, but we cannot accept unfair competition across the north sea. the uk must also respect the agreements reached on northern ireland. we are holding the key to the distribution of the so-called bar funds. a deal is a deal. the beginning of a new relationship with the uk is now in place. let us build that relationship in a forward-looking and positive way, with cooperation at its core, so that future generations can also reap the benefits of the good relations between the eu and the uk, so that for example the exchange of knowledge in science and innovation will also continue and so that we can remain strategic partners in security and foreign policy. we will vote in favour and hope for the best.
mr president, the agreement we are about to vote on is crucial for many sectors, but it is even more so for fishermen. the signing of the agreement has not solved all the problems. while the agreements were supposed to guarantee reciprocal access to british and european territorial waters, it is clear that this is not the case. the hauts-de-france example shows that of the 100 vessels that would require a licence to access british territorial waters, only 20 have actually been granted one. as regards quotas, no agreement has been reached on the level of catch totals for 2021, which leaves fishermen in a situation of high uncertainty. we must reach an agreement on the final quotas quickly. these must comply with the mdra agreement as set out in the agreement and scientific regulations and recommendations. if not, the fish stocks and, ultimately, the fishermen will pay the price. i hope that the vote on the agreement tonight will unblock both of these points. the reduction of fishing opportunities for europeans by 25% will be a blow to fishermen, but i would like to remind member states that they have in their hands article 17 of the common fisheries policy, which allows them to allocate these fishing opportunities according to social and environmental criteria. i therefore urge them to preserve small-scale coastal fishing, which is essential for the life of coastal areas and which introduces more environmentally friendly fishing techniques. we knew that an agreement with the uk would be less advantageous than the pre-brexit situation, but no agreement would be even worse. let us keep that in mind when we vote tonight.
mr president, an exit mechanism from the european union cannot lead to a good agreement. i would like to thank mr barnier for his excellent work. but since we are in this imposed exercise, i wish to draw your attention to the non-regression clause. this clause in the agreement is quite good and i am afraid we should use it and show determination on the central issue of gmos. the announcement by the british government that it will deregulate gmos without any agreement, without risk controls, without labelling, and without regard to european regulations that protect consumers and the environment, should be a wake-up call. this assumption of deregulation by the united kingdom is therefore in complete contradiction to the community regulations on this subject and to the position of british citizens on this prospect, and therefore the european union must be prepared to take action to extend the protection of our continent against these threats.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 discharge, in general, and the european parliament's discharge in particular, are merely a continuation of the 2018 discharge, without taking into account the recommendations of the various resolutions and the recommendations of the european court of auditors. first, i note with concern that parliament has received a double rebuke following the investigation by the european data protection supervisor into the use of nation builder services to process personal data in the context of activities related to the 2019 european elections. this is an opportunity to recall that the european parliament must remain politically neutral and that the exceptional mobilisation during 2018 and 2019 of around €34 million for the promotion of the european elections is not acceptable. secondly, savings can be made on several levels. i am thinking of the expensive real estate policy facilitated by the reprehensible technique of the pick-up transfer, whereby the committee on budgets authorised in 2019 a transfer of €31 million for the pre-financing of the pharaonic project in luxembourg of the adenauer building. as a french member of parliament, i urge that the treaties be respected, that strasbourg be made the seat of the european parliament and that compensatory sessions be held there, because the city is suffering a double blow in this period of the pandemic. the savings of €40 million per year that would be achieved in a single seat scenario for parliament, if the buildings in strasbourg are not sold, do not seem to me to be a determining factor in relation to the savings proposed by my id group, which are in a low estimate of €60 million with the removal of the europa experience spaces created in 2019, which are superfluous, or the removal of representation offices.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. madam president, a few weeks ago i visited the bisca biscuit factory in møn in south-west denmark. bisca is the largest employer in the municipality and the company is absolutely vital to the cohesion and prosperity of the area. not long ago, bisca was about to turn the key and move abroad. if that had happened, the many employees of the monetary and biscay fund would not have received a penny from the globalisation fund. for years, the globalisation adjustment fund has only given aid if at least 500 workers were made redundant by a single company, and bisca employed only 460. the old system meant that small countries and small communities were supposed to have access to aid. we're gonna change that today. we are now lowering the ceiling to 200 employees, widening the areas of support and thus securing a huge number of wage-earners. it is a great day for communities all over europe.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, since 2007, the european globalisation adjustment fund has been supporting and accompanying european workers made redundant by a company or in a sector of activity in their conversion, requalification and reintegration into the labour market. in laimpol and saint-martin, in brittany, 760 workers made redundant in the gad company were supported by this scheme in 2014. the fund therefore provides a european response to the most difficult situations. the objectives of the european parliament were clear in revising the fund: to make it even more accessible, inclusive, visible and decisive in responding to crises and transitions; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the objectives of the treaty are achieved. europe is showing that it stands with workers who have lost their jobs. more accessible: we fought to lower the mobilization threshold to 200 workers laid off instead of 500. it is a support to the greatest number that is now possible. more inclusive: help for those who want to start a business, compulsory digital training, possibility to finance services such as childcare - this is a characterised, concrete and indispensable support. finally, more responsive: brexit, covid-19, the empowerment of production chains, the greening of our economies will not be without impact on work and this fund can now be mobilised to respond to all these challenges. with €1.3 billion, the european globalisation adjustment fund for workers made redundant is up to the challenge and must stand by the workers most affected. mr commissioner, every day more and more, a europe of solidarity and social cohesion is emerging and exists, but it must be even more responsive and more adapted to today's challenges, and i know that we can count on your commitment.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, victor hugo said that humanity is synonymous with equality. the european union was once thought of as the cradle of peace and solidarity; today, it is in misery that we speak of equality, but not in rights. equality is not just about being treated equally in relation to others, but also about treating oneself in the way one treats others. if the people are suffering, the european union must be suffering, and it must draw on its capacities to protect them equitably. today, the only equality we have is that we'll all be in the next room someday. so do we want to leave a legacy of moribund policies that increase inequality or do we want to turn the tables so that our fellow citizens are no longer subject to the trampling on of their fundamental rights? it is high time to reignite the stars that the market has burned. let's give the citizens a voice again, unblock the anti-discrimination directive and base our policies on the human. because, ladies and gentlemen, is not the only equality, the first, simply fairness?
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, mr didier, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work. today we are endorsing the justice programme for 2021-2027. it is a key programme to strengthen our judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, to increase our capacity for joint judicial training, to promote and guarantee the rights of victims and of the defence and to facilitate access to justice, also with the help of ngos. through this programme we are not only seeking to consolidate the acquis, but also to create a common judicial culture, and this is why it is important. it is also a tool that must guarantee us respect for the rule of law, by providing additional financial means for our values, for our democracies. this programme is also the implementation of all the speeches on the rule of law that can be heard in this house, because justice is also the application of common and uniform rules, the independence and impartiality of the judicial system, which must be guaranteed by the money that the european union gives to develop our judicial institutions. this is what this programme is financing, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why i am calling on you to support it.
madam president, before covid, in a not so distant time, it had become normal to see tourists staying in apartments, while the poorly housed were sheltered in hotels. a rare joy since the beginning of covid: airbnb has left our big cities. for years before, the platform had driven residents out of cities and replaced their homes with short-term tourist rentals. because of airbnb, housing became scarcer, more expensive, and our downtowns became museums. in the post-covid europe, i wish all citizens to have access to decent housing, i wish hoteliers to no longer suffer from unfair competition from platforms and i wish europeans to go on holiday in cities, real cities, with real people living in them. so for tourism and for tourists, for citizens, for locals, let's get airbnb out of our cities, let's put tourists back in hotels and renters back in apartments, and not the other way around!
i have to say, madam president, a billion. that's how many international flights we lost in 2020. the missing travellers became missing guests in the entire eu hotel and catering industry. the worst year ever for europe's tourism sector. the consequences were felt directly in the living rooms of the 13 million europeans employed in the industry. we have a huge rebuilding job ahead of us in the whole tourism sector. the first step we are taking this week is a joint coronapas. the second step is to give the industry an economic saltwater injection with the billions from the eu recovery fund. but the tourism sector also has a responsibility. a responsibility for the recovery to be done with social responsibility, so the third step will be to start fresh and ensure that tourism jobs, in the future, are in proper conditions, where health and safety and rights are priorities. europe will then once again become the world's favourite destination for tourists and waiters, travellers and restaurants, for the benefit of workers all over europe.
mr president, millions of employees and thousands of small businesses need the union's help to survive the pandemic. support to the hospitality industry should take into account the link between tourism and infrastructure. we can use this crisis to develop an integrated vision for european tourism. studies show that making transport more efficient would mean an extra almost €6 billion, increased mobility for european citizens and better connections between member states. it would also lead to a lower environmental impact and a more competitive global position of the union. i represent a country with a poor infrastructure, but with places of outstanding beauty that european tourists deserve to enjoy safely. the commission notes that the aid granted to the airlines concerned is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the airport services agreement with ryanair. the promotion of rural destinations and local initiatives, the exploitation of the ecological heritage, and investment in infrastructure are essential to the recovery of european tourism.
mr president, commissioner breton, secretary of state zacarias, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. no patchwork this time, please. we need more european coordination to give the tourism sector in europe a real perspective. the vaccination passport we are launching this week in the european parliament must become a european success story. we need a realistic opening-up perspective for tourism, for the many small and medium-sized enterprises in the hotel and catering industry. since taking office, the commission has published numerous strategies green deal with big announcements but decisions are missing on the key issues of better regulation, the necessary reduction of red tape and the sme ombudsman. that is why decisions must be taken now, and this is extremely important for the tourism sector in particular. so today, please, not just listen, but act!
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, as the pandemic crisis has been affecting us for more than a year and despite the acceleration of the vaccination campaign at european level, the summer tourist season remains under threat. i welcome the negotiations under way on the introduction of the green certificate, which will allow more travellers to travel from this summer. tourism is vital to the economy of my region, where i have the good fortune to live, as well as to that of many regions in france and europe. the accommodation and catering sector has suffered greatly in terms of employment; in france, more than 128 000 jobs were lost in 2020. support for national schemes for parttime work through the sure programme is therefore essential and has helped to preserve jobs. i welcome the commission's intention to evaluate the results of this system and to make it sustainable, perhaps in the context of a permanent instrument, but the skills shortage must also be addressed. we cannot get out of this crisis without skills, so we must continue to work on the skills and training of workers.
mr president, commissioner, representative of the council, the past year has been very difficult for our service industries, hotels, restaurants, tourism and smes, which are the ones we are talking about. it is clear that there are very high expectations for the coming summer. now there's hope in the air. vaccine production is well underway and vaccinations are proceeding across europe, but despite this, restrictions remain in place in many countries. it is important that each member state now supports its own companies, smes and the service sector in this difficult situation, but the action we must now promote at european level is to speed up the introduction of this single currency certificate. i myself have been very disappointed by the poor coordination of the member states over the past year on restrictions on movement and in particular on travel restrictions. the tourism industry, as well as businesses and citizens, have had great difficulty in assessing travel opportunities as testing practices and vaccination requirements have changed over time. it's important that we get a common ground on this.
ladies and gentlemen, tourism does not need another resolution, tourism does not need another strategy. what tourism needs is tourists, and if we think about them, we will stop every region in europe having its own measures and changing them every day: one rule, one approach, one certificate. whether we call it green or not, it doesn't matter to me. it's important that we accept it now, apply it everywhere and not discriminate against anyone: not people who haven't gotten sick yet, nor those who haven't gotten vaccinated, whether it's because they don't want to or simply because there are no vaccines. colleagues, our central task is to ensure a normal european summer. colleagues, let us accept this certificate, let us give a breath of fresh air to the restaurateurs, the hoteliers, the airlines and the tour operators, let us give a breath of fresh air to all the worthy men and women who work in tourism!
mr. chairman, tourism and gastronomy are the sectors most affected by the current pandemic. a decline in turnover of up to 70% means that almost 11 million european jobs are at risk. it is therefore appropriate that these companies be compensated, because the sales decline was caused almost exclusively by the public health measures, and i regret that in some countries, especially as i have experienced in slovakia, this state aid is late. now more than ever, we need to give these companies financial incentives to make it easier for them to access credit, and temporarily also tax relief, tax breaks and administrative relief. i think that gastronomy is not just about jobs, especially small businesses, but also about regional differences, and also about the development of employment in the regions. the european commission should prepare a special task force, allocate special funds to the food sector and i also believe that a strategy for the development of tourism will be prepared to develop this important economic sector after the pandemic.
mr president, there is no doubt that the pandemic today is sweeping everything in its path and there is really no one who believes that it can be dealt with easily. however, it is widely accepted that the pandemic has irreparably and devastatingly hit tourism. it's the only sector that's been closed for 14 months. many of the firms are unable to stand up and are in danger of being closed down. the european union's aid is slow to arrive, and aid that is slow to arrive is not aid. i believe that our tourism, which is not just a sector but a motor of the economies of the member states of the european union, could benefit from this support and rescue. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to help the poorest countries in the world, and that the european union is able to help the poorest countries in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to all your concerns and expectations. of course, the epidemiological situation is difficult, but i am confident that together, including with the european union covid vaccination strategy, we will succeed and bring the pandemic under control in the coming months. we have the right tools and conditions to safely open the tourist season, the travel season, but obviously we have to work together to do that. as for the current situation, since march 2020, the commission, as you know, has put in place a provisional framework for state aid, to give more flexibility to member states, and in record time, i think it can be said. we have approved over 350 national state aid schemes for the tourism sector alone. without waiting for the stimulus package, we have acted and we are supporting the sector. we are working with the member states to ensure that tourism is supported by national recovery plans; this is very important. i am confident that several member states, with whom we are of course in constant contact, will give this priority in their plans, which will free up additional money for this sector which, as we all know, is in great need of it. the tourism sector can also be supported, i would remind you, by the union budget through many instruments: the cohesion funds, the rural development fund, the internal market programme, horizon europe of course, invest eu, creative europe, sure, react... with this large number of plans and funding sources, we propose a guide to guide the actors, so that they can benefit from these funds as quickly as possible. on the question of eu action on tourism, i agree with those who have called for greater coordination at european level. the crisis has shown that we all face the same challenges and the response can only be a common and coordinated one. this is also why i consider the work of the european parliament's 'tourism' task force to be crucial and i would like to thank it here. we have to look beyond the present situation, and many of you have mentioned that. we know that the recovery of the tourist ecosystem will take some time, of course, but it is clear that the tourism of tomorrow will not be the tourism we have known - some have rightly said so and i agree. it will be more sustainable, more digital and will obviously reflect the new needs of our fellow citizens. we need to support the ecosystem in the transformations that will accelerate. moreover, the update of the industrial strategy that i will present shortly will address this point, and i am ready to work with you on the tourism agenda. yes, the coming season is obviously crucial, you all have mentioned it, and i am here to say it in front of you. we will do everything to support this season, including of course accelerating the vaccination campaign, as you recalled, with the target of 60% adult vaccination capacity by mid-july. you can of course count on my full commitment to support the ecosystem and prepare for its future.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reflections and the proactive support of the european parliament in this collective effort to get back to traveling this summer in safety, to make the tourism, hospitality, catering and cultural sectors work for the benefit of businesses and citizens. we are all talking about the measures needed in the short term, but also about the necessary reflection and measures in the medium and long term that can create a more sustainable tourism sector with higher quality jobs and accompanying the green and digital transitions. and despite the limited competences in the field of tourism at european union level, we agree that it is important to improve coordination between member states and stakeholders to limit harm to tourism and transport companies and at the same time to establish the necessary health safety protocols for travel and business and, in particular, the implementation of the digital green certificate. on financial support, the council conclusions which will be adopted shortly call for the launch as soon as possible of the guide mentioned by the commissioner, a guide which will give us a comprehensive overview of the current sources of funding which are included in the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and also in the next generation programme. this can facilitate access to important information for public authorities and stakeholders. there is a sense of urgency about this funding which is helping the measures already taken by the member states and this is particularly true, as has been said, for the coastal regions, the islands and the outermost regions. at the end of this debate, i see my conviction confirmed that there is no time to lose and that we must join forces to provide all possible support to the tourism sector in the short, medium and long term. and i can assure you that the portuguese presidency is particularly sensitive to this issue and will spare no effort to find solutions. i thank you again for your attention.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. tourism is a strategic industry for the european union and has been one of the sectors most affected by covid-19. the eu's response with funding mechanisms such as sure, react-eu or the relaxation of state aid has had a positive impact on the tourism sector. however, the european parliament, and in particular the s&d group, continue to call for a genuine european tourism policy that sets out a roadmap to revitalise the sector and to implement concrete measures, including targeted european investment, to tackle the green and digital transition. with the summer season just around the corner, vaccination and the covid certificate are an opportunity to regain the confidence of travelers and facilitate freedom of movement. however, we need to go a step further and join forces with the commission and the council to establish common european criteria that restore confidence and ensure the safety of citizens when travelling: unifying passenger forms, affordability of pcrs, creating up-to-date information points - both physical and online - at destinations, setting up testing centres at airports and avoiding any unilateral measures on additional restrictions such as quarantines.
in writing. in the last year, there has been a lot of talk in the european parliament about tourism in the context of the covid-19 pandemic, which is not surprising, given that the tourism and hospitality sectors have almost completely shut down not only in europe, but worldwide. the livelihoods of millions of workers, small and family businesses in the union depend on tourism. there's no question that financial support is needed to get you back on track, but i believe that the only lasting solution is vaccination. the european commission is currently using the digital green signal to distract attention from the vaccine procurement disruption, but it is not a real solution. if we want to save the summer tourist season, we have to speed up the vaccination. only vaccination provides effective and long-term protection, ensuring not only the normal functioning of tourism, but also the return of daily life to normalcy.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has been with us for over a year and has affected both our personal and professional lives. no one has escaped the consequences of the pandemic. however, there is no doubt that one of the most affected sectors of the economy is the hotel and catering sector. restrictions in europe have made it impossible or very difficult for restaurants and cafes to operate in most cases, they cannot be used in their normal capacity. restrictions on travel to and within the union - in some cases by outright bans on travel for tourism - have paralysed the tourism and hospitality industries. as a consequence of these events, the hotel and catering sector is suffering, and smes, which are particularly vulnerable to crisis situations, are the most affected. in poland alone, the catering sector lost 30 billion zlotys last year - a huge blow with long-term consequences. this shows that the rescue of this sector is very much needed and should be one of the priorities. an important element here is eu financial support, which will help directly to save companies from bankruptcy. however, close cooperation and coordination between member states is also important in order to facilitate the free movement of persons and to restore cross-border mobility. it is necessary to develop well-thought-out, responsible, safe and realistic strategies that guarantee certainty and continuity for businesses.
in writing. tourism is a strategic industry for the european union and has been one of the sectors most affected by covid-19. the eu's response with funding mechanisms such as sure, react-eu or the relaxation of state aid has had a positive impact on the tourism sector. however, the european parliament, and in particular the s&d group, continue to call for a genuine european tourism policy that sets out a roadmap to revitalise the sector and to implement concrete measures, including targeted european investment, to tackle the green and digital transition. with the summer season just around the corner, vaccination and the covid certificate are an opportunity to regain the confidence of travelers and facilitate freedom of movement. however, we need to go a step further and join forces with the commission and the council to establish common european criteria that restore confidence and ensure the safety of citizens when travelling: unifying passenger forms, affordability of pcrs, creating up-to-date information points - both physical and online - at destinations, setting up testing centres at airports and avoiding any unilateral measures on additional restrictions such as quarantines.
in writing. – one of the main economic victims of the covid-19 pandemic has been the global tourism sector. ensuring its quick revival in full respect of public health safeguards has become a paramount interest, not least for europe, which has been a leading force for both outgoing and incoming tourism, both within and without the single market. the progressive implementation of vaccination programmes implies that the window for safe travel will increasingly become open. all efforts should be made to ensure that this means that work can began in the travel and hospitality sectors to recover the lost jobs and repair the human and material infrastructure that has been greatly damaged. the introduction of an eu vaccination certificate – however we choose to call it – is the right tool to ensure that this happens over a transition period, subject to privacy safeguards. that the deployment of such a certificate undermines free movement in the single market is an unconvincing argument, since there can be no free movement in the absence of health security. the certificate enables free movement under conditions of full health security that are progressively being extended to all the people of europe. this is why i fully support it.
in writing. we are at the threshold of the summer season and we can feel optimistic this year. the satisfactory vaccination rates in most european countries and the introduction of the digital certificate, which will certify the health status of travellers within the european union, will contribute to the speedy recovery of tourist movements both within the eu and from third countries to the union. it is very important that we provide tourists and society itself with enhanced security conditions this summer. since health protection will be the main criterion for choosing a holiday destination this year too, all health protocols should be strictly observed by the companies in the sector. in parallel, the commission could consider upgrading rapid tests at european level, which would help the tourism and travel sectors. saving the summer season, finally getting out of the pandemic, and the human need for recreation, after unprecedented psychological stress and strict restrictive measures, is crucial not only for the economy but also for our mental health.
in writing. the tourism sector has been one of the hardest hit by the consequences of the pandemic. the challenge today is to ensure safe re-opening so that this sector, which has been stalled for more than a year, can finally get going again. in italy, more than in other countries, the next few days will be decisive for the survival of thousands of activities. the policy, which must guarantee a chance for tourism operators and small businesses that deserve to get back on their feet, must, for example, address the problem of unfair competition exerted by certain online platforms active in the field of hospitality, whose dominant position has, so far, penalized the more traditional hotels and b&bs. with summer just around the corner, timely decisions must be taken, including to facilitate freedom of movement within the eu, avoiding what happened just a year ago when millions of european citizens, fearing contagion and discouraged by restrictions, decided to forgo their holidays. i hope that after this long period of difficulty and closure, the path to return to normal will be ushered in by a summer of freedom and rest.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the union space programme and the european union space agency and repealing regulations (eu) no 912/2010, (eu) no 1285/2013 and (eu) no 377/2014 and decision no 541/2014/eu (14312/1/2020 c9-0140/2021 2018/0236 ((cod)) (rapporteur: massimiliano salini) (a9-0141/2021).
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working for about three years in an attempt to give europe one of the most interesting, most challenging programmes. the european space programme was not lacking before we arrived at this difficulty and a lot of investment has accompanied the path towards this desirable conclusion. we had solid programmes like galileo for navigation systems, copernicus for observation systems, many countries involved - some as protagonists, some as non-participants - in a major investment package. a unitary body was missing. a single body, therefore a shared strategy, a european strategy which would decide the role of the european space programme as a point of unity for the whole of the european union and not as a simple challenge for some countries of the union. and that was the path that we started. the creation of a compact legal body, hence the definition of common rules, and at the same time the identification of an equally compact strategy that would say what kind of investment we intend to make. i think we did it. in my view, the challenge has been won, and it has been won because it has been through many interferences that could have compromised it. brexit on the one hand, and the tragic covid pandemic that we're still experiencing. in both cases, the first could have seen the desire for compactness on which we built the start of our work shattered, and the other the risk of seeing the scale of the investments and the budget we were proposing compromised. either way, we won. we have won because the unified strategy has remained and we have the european space programme with a governance that sees the whole of the european union converging towards that attempt to eliminate the redundancies, the overlaps in the relationship between the various institutions involved, from the commission to the agencies, redundancies that have not infrequently also created accidents of a certain danger, especially in the last two years, as we have seen with galileo. and we have managed to build a working hypothesis that is within the reach of all 27 member countries and not just the two or three driving forces and we have today a governance in which the role of the european union is clear, therefore, of the institutions, the commission and that agency that used to be gsa is now euspa, a central subject in the implementation of industrial policies related to space. and the relations between these european institutions and the institutions that have always been the protagonists in this strategy, namely the international organisations, first and foremost esa. this is a big decision. to have a space program complete is to behave like a great power. it means that europe must decide not to be a handmaiden in the great global processes, not only in the industrial sphere, but also to be a protagonist in the most challenging geopolitical sphere. our competitors in this field are the united states of america, china, but our interlocutors are not only the large industrial groups that compete globally in the competition between great powers. we are also talking to the countless small and mediumsized enterprises and start-ups in the eu countries that are trying to take up this challenge and try to fit into the value chains that this challenge can bring to the top. having a european space programme means having a great partner also for another major strategy called the european defence strategy, on which commissioner breton - and i thank him very much - is working with great zeal. i thank commissioner bienkowska, who in the previous commission started this work. i thank all the institutions and industry which have made this negotiation possible. i thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs, who, both in the previous and in the present mandate, have followed parliament's work with a great spirit of cooperation. parliament which has entered into the strategy: the european parliament, which used to remain outside the decision-making structure of this programme, now has the duty to intervene by monitoring and being informed well in advance of all the steps. we have created the conditions for the maintenance of the only true european infrastructure, because, if you will remember, of the many infrastructures europe has, the only one that is exclusively owned by the european union is the satellite infrastructure. this is the point we've been working on. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, mr massimiliano salini, fictitious rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i am particularly pleased to be able to speak about space in this house today, particularly as a european is about to take command of the international space station after the successful launch last week, which was very much followed by all of us. europe is the second space power in the world, let us not forget that. we in europe have a real tradition, a real space history at the heart of international partnerships, and that is why i am very pleased that the co-legislators have reached an ambitious agreement on the new space programme of the union following the commission's proposal. the european parliament's continued commitment and support for the space programme has been absolutely essential and i really want to thank each and every one of you here tonight for it, very warmly. combined with a budget of over €13 billion, the largest ever adopted at european level, the agreement on the space regulation with the council is a significant step forward. it brings together all existing and new space activities in a single programme and proposes a new governance that is far more effective than the one we have known. ladies and gentlemen, europe has everything it needs to be a leading space power. in the face of the global race to change in the space sector, it is really time to rethink our ambitions and our means. proposing a new mission, new programmes, breakthrough technologies and innovative business models is what we all need to work on together, with the member states, the union agency for the european space programme, the new euspa and then, of course, the european space agency. we need to rethink our space policy, and that is exactly what the space programme is calling us to do. by modernising the current european flagship programmes through the launch of the second generation of galileo satellites and the upgrading of copernicus into the most competitive earth observation sector; implementing a secure satellite connectivity initiative that will ensure ultra-resilient broadband access and also ensure that all our citizens are connected; the european union's autonomous access to space is guaranteed by an alliance of all european actors, including, i repeat, start-ups - as the rapporteur has just mentioned - smes, capable of proposing innovative businesses. the space programme contains for the first time a clause enabling the union to support this ambition, which is very important and we will of course be able to use it. at the heart of this ambition, as you will have seen, is innovation. innovation is what will keep europe as a space power. so we have to invest massively in our talents, our ideas, our start-ups, our smes and then also, sometimes, perhaps take more risks than we have done so far. this is a real change of approach that we need and you can obviously count on me to implement it. as such, i want to tell you that i am working on setting up a space investment fund, called cassini, with €1 billion to stimulate young start-ups and space innovation. to achieve all these objectives, we will need to join forces with the european space agency, the commission's space partner of choice. after months of intensive negotiations, my team and esa's team have reached a technical agreement defining our future framework for cooperation, which is very important. this agreement implements the simplified governance between the commission, esa and euspa, as decided by the co-legislators. i am therefore confident that this agreement will be formalised in the coming weeks, which will allow us to move forward and plan for the implementation of the programme. let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking you once again, and in particular all those who have been involved in this important matter, in particular the rapporteur, whom i thank again, the fictitious rapporteurs, the itre committee, the presidencies who have accompanied you throughout the legislative work, and my team at the commission. all of them worked hard, hand in hand, to reach agreement on the space regulation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe's future will also be decided in space. it's good that we already have two successful programs that we want to strengthen with the space program. copernicus provides us with earth observation data that can help us measure climate change and improve disaster prevention. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the whole world is talking about elon musk and spacex. the united states and china have big plans to bring internet connectivity to every corner of the earth with networks of thousands of satellites. we can do this in europe too, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner. our space industry is innovative and competitive. european companies in my region - such as isar aerospace from munich - are providing innovative solutions for access to space and the transport of satellites into space, helping us to make europe more resilient. europe must assert itself as the third largest economy, alongside the usa and china. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank my colleagues and especially our rapporteur, mr massimiliano salini. we must now create the right structures with the european space agency and the budget for the space programme. the report builds on the successes of the past and makes important suggestions for further innovation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the european space programme and the creation of the european agency will enable the union in particular and humanity in general to be equipped with the essential tools to better understand and protect the planet on which it lives, to safeguard biodiversity, to combat climate change and to participate in global networks for the exploitation and management of space for the common good. as a shadow rapporteur and on behalf of the s&d group, i welcome the work done and the results achieved. the space programme will have a budget of eur 14.88 billion with clear priorities and conditions for prudent management. this investment will allow the continuation of the galileo and egnos programmes, focus on the innovative development of satellite navigation, reinforce the capacity for planetary observation through copernicus, space tracking through the ssa initiative and develop the public satellite network through govsatcom. clear rules have been secured for international cooperation and for meeting commitments to the climate agenda and to the promotion of biodiversity. the continuity of the programme in horizon 2030 has been ensured by aligning its duration with the implementation timetables of the 2021-2027 mff. in adopting this programme of initiatives, mr president, the european parliament is making a contribution to scientific progress ... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have today a space programme of the highest standard in the world; it is a source of pride for europe and i am happy to have been involved in it as rapporteur for our renew group. space is not a gadget for fun. space is essential if europe is to be a great world power. space is essential for our strategic autonomy, so that we are not dependent on satellites from other countries in the world. space is essential for our research and development, for our innovation for the benefit of all europeans, whether for the economy, digital transformation or security. our galileo geolocation satellite: two billion users on smartphones. a more accomplished generation is coming. our copernicus observation satellite: a new generation is coming to monitor co2 emissions to meet the objectives of the green deal. and finally, the detection of space debris, secure communications, connectivity, the development of our businesses, large and small, all of these are absolutely excellent and going in the right direction. now we have to look further. i see three things in the future. first, more ambition for europe in space, with manned flights to carry out scientific missions to the moon and mars. secondly, let us not be naive, space is becoming a place of tension and we need a real european strategy for space defence. finally, we need to strengthen our access to space, especially with launchers, because we need to be able to continue to launch our own satellites. so let's see big and beautiful, because as a european author, oscar wilde wrote: always aim for the moon because even if you fail, you land in the stars.
mr president, commissioner thierry breton, we all dreamed of the launch of a team of astronauts to the international space station last friday, but this event also and above all represents a new technological defeat for europe. in 2021, europe remains the only space power unable to send humans into space itself. what millennial europe has failed to do in 40 years because of the weakness of the political organisation that administers it, private american companies like spacex are conquering. europe is not lacking in genius in the face of the united states and china. we are held back by the weakness of european elites who no longer believe in what we are, by a bureaucracy incapable of promoting and protecting a genuine industrial policy. while spacex has benefited for over a decade from a policy based on the guarantee of a preferential public order, where is the buy european act for ariane and all the eu economic gems? as long as greta thunberg remains europe's only ambition for tomorrow in an economy of conquest and knowledge, then europe will be doomed to leave history for good.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to france, europe has a very efficient space base in french guiana. in the case of ariane 6, the european space industry, with the more than tacit agreement of the merkel government, pushed for a process that did not necessarily correspond to the best market expectations. germany has also used the us spacex launcher. these choices could be negative for the french space industry and the economic activity of french guiana and the gsc. with marine le pen, we call on the commission to implement a genuine space policy for the european states, which does not leave the field open to the united states, russia and china, which are seeking space supremacy. through its spatial competence and its base in french guiana, france can make a major contribution to the achievement of this highly strategic objective for various european nations.
madam president, commissioner, the digital green certificate - do not call it a 'vaccination passport', you would offend the commission - is in the end a hybrid tool, hastily voted on a corner of the table and corresponding to a denial of democracy. we're told it won't be compulsory. however, some member states are already beginning to divert it from its primary function, and for good reason: they remain sovereign in their public health policy. we're told it's to "harmonize". if harmonization were the credo of the european union, it would be known. i ask you, commissioner, when will there be a digital white certificate for capital transactions in european tax havens? we are told to have confidence, but the commission has created mistrust among our citizens. many concerns remain about everyone's health pass, such as the protection of personal data, discrimination, free testing, the lack of scientific studies that do not add value to your potential pass. as with the vaccine purchase agreements, you hope to make us swallow an opaque straw and force our fellow citizens to consent to mass surveillance rather than fight for the lifting of patents. i am glad to say, commissioner, that despite the doctor, it is only a play, but you are making it a sad reality.
madam president, commissioner reynders, for just over a year now, each state has adopted its own measures that restrict our freedom of movement in order to combat the pandemic. to regain these freedoms while minimising the circulation of the virus, it seems to us that harmonising the rules at european level is our best option. however, this will only be possible under certain conditions which, in our view, are imperative: the choice must be left to each individual and each individual must use it, by vaccination, tests or evidence of remission; the sole purpose of the system must be to facilitate travel between states; it must be robust from the point of view of the protection of personal data and not capable of becoming a system of pervasive surveillance; the infrastructure must be decentralised; the paper alternative must be guaranteed and compulsory; no centralisation or retention of data shall be allowed; the scheme is to expire within one year at the latest; the commission has already proposed that the tests should be free of charge, so as not to discriminate against people on the basis of their standard of living. it is under these conditions that a system of a 'covid certificate' will be justified.
madam president, if we want to regain our freedom of movement quickly, this covid-19 certificate, recognised by the 27 member states, is the european answer to put an end to this cacophony and to stop being subject to all these different rules between member states that we have been experiencing for more than a year, and to relaunch tourism as of this summer and improve the daily lives of many border crossers, provided that it remains a simple, safe, accessible and effective tool. the certificate will be free of charge in digital or paper format and will be accompanied by a qr code to ensure its security and authenticity. anyone who has been vaccinated, recovered from covid-19, or tested negative may use this certificate if they wish, and without obligation. if not, it must comply with the health rules of the country of destination. but, commissioner, madam secretary of state, this will only be a real added value if no member state can impose additional conditions - quarantine, for example - on the holders of this certificate to enter its territory, and we will be vigilant about the obligation for member states to comply with this certificate as soon as it is used. the affordability of screening tests is also a concern, as their price varies and can be very high, in some member states exceeding eur 300. for those who have not yet had access to vaccination or who do not wish to be vaccinated, this is extremely important and these tests must be free of charge and i am thinking particularly of young people. we must guarantee every european citizen the right to move freely, without any economic or financial discrimination.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, commissioner, two years ago, in front of the newly elected members of parliament, you promised to propose a tax on the digital giants if an international consensus was not reached. so yes, like you, i hope with all my heart for a global agreement, but what will happen if it fails again in july? again, they will say, 'yes, but wait, they are close.' be careful, we don't rush them. well, i say, let's push them, because the attentism has never led to victories and because we have this agreement of reimbursement which must be respected. so this proposal, commissioner, will have to arrive in june. so, colleagues, i ask you the following question: are we going to finally prove to our voters that it is the elected people, that is us, who make the law, and not facebook, amazon or alibaba? or are we proving ourselves powerless again? commissioner, you know the position of this european parliament: we are ready.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, i want to thank the rapporteurs and colleagues with whom we have worked on this resolution. this is important because with this text the european parliament is sending a strong and united message on tax justice. yes, we want gafam and all digital multinationals to pay their fair share of taxes and yes, we want a minimum corporate tax rate on a global level. it is this race to the bottom that is destroying our public services, our hospitals, our pensions, our unemployment insurance and all other public services. today, we have a historic opportunity: joe biden has just proposed a global minimum rate of 21%. that would be a huge step forward in the fight against tax havens. what does the european commission say? what does bruno le maire say in france? nothing, or they're absent subscribers; you have to pull the worms out of their noses to get a shy lip support, half a word. this is shameful! so, commissioner gentiloni, you mentioned this earlier, can you tell us today that the european union is going to get out of a dogmatic position and support this proposal for a floor rate of 21%? or are you going to do like the french government, like bruno le maire, and say that we have to fight against tax evasion, but do the opposite as soon as there are no more cameras? unable to support this american proposal, also unable to defend the tax transparency of multinational companies - worse than unable: sabotage. yes, bruno le maire is a sabotage of tax justice because, instead of defending transparency, he defends the position of medef, the french employers' union, to the point of copying and pasting his speech word for word: it's a scandal, it's dismal! i therefore ask that france and europe wake up now to live up to this historic moment for tax justice.
madam president, this is not a crisis for everyone. while the first to be taxed toiled and the poorest of the poor were galled, the richest of the rich were hoarding. billionaires saw their fortunes increase by 54%; the commission has also proposed a new approach to the problem of the just imagine if the minimum wage had risen that fast! on the multinational side, it's also the jackpot. the stock market is at record highs and the cac 40 is about to pay 51 billion in dividends. netflix and amazon have doubled their profits thanks to the lockdown. so what are we waiting for to make these crisis profiteers pay? the imf and the un are asking for it; the united states, new zealand and argentina do. so what are we waiting for to tax the profiteers of the crisis, to restore justice? the answer is three simple words: tax the rich. instead of pocketing the unemployed, the precarious, the homeless or the retired, let's tax the rich. to help the people who are suffering and to finance solidarity, let's tax the rich once and for all.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for decades we have been told that the richest among us, the strongest among us, are being persecuted by a practice from another era, called taxation, to the point that they have to take refuge in paradises, and it is difficult to be against paradises. these non-factual arguments, which spoke to emotion more than reason, helped undermine something essential in our democracies called tax consent and created a real tax injustice. so what is tax injustice? this is when in our union, large companies, especially those in the digital sector, are taxed at around 9%, while smes are taxed at around 23% and face a wave of bankruptcies. the united states has understood the political and democratic consequences of the race to the least-so-called tax. let's support them, let's go with them, let's work together. so yes to an effective minimum tax rate, yes to the figure of 21% to begin with, no to the double game of the states, no to the medef grades, but yes to the general interest and to clear positions.
your reasons are clear, mr. putin: they are that your economic difficulties, your steadily rising unpopularity, your inability to make peace in syria after winning the war there and the rejection of your too long rule by the middle classes lead you to want to terrify your opponents and distract your fellow citizens with the sound of boots that lead to nothing. so, mr putin, while there is still time, while you have not yet increased the tension beyond all reason, open up the spaces of freedom to which your people aspire, resume the march towards democracy that perestroika began, refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of your neighbours, those independent states with whom you would only have an interest in establishing relations of trust. forget the idea of trying to frighten us, the 27 nations of the european union, because you can only rally us against you and rush our defence effort. abandon the evil, try the good and you will see how beneficial it will be to the russians and their neighbors, to our continent and the world. we share the same culture, the same civilization, the same europe, and you simply have no right to refuse it a common horizon. so, mr putin, release alexei navalny and all your political prisoners, put your killers out of work, apologize to our czech friends, and finally extend the hand of concord to ukraine, georgia and belarus, all your immediate neighbours. do it, mr. putin, or you'll find us in your way.
(start of intervention off the record) use foreign affairs to appease the guilty conscience of the european left. their newspapers headlined in stalin's glory; their politicians took their cues from the communist party; their commentators claimed that the gulag was a hoax. today, the ussr has fallen, there is no longer a berlin wall, and yet many of our colleagues are paradoxically nostalgic for the cold war. for some, hostility towards russia is a convenient argument to try to erase past compromises; for the others, it's a pretext to continue to claim the guardianship of the united states. moscow is 11 hours by car from kiev; washington is more than 4,500 miles away. we therefore hear the european union multiply the most serious accusations concerning the movements of russian troops on its own borders, when american interests continue to provide ukraine with a veritable military armada. if tomorrow france were to send troops to mexico, or germany to bolivia, and if the high representative of the european union were to condemn american interference in latin america, what would be washington's reaction? this policy is a burden for western europe. too often the european union and its external action do not serve the interests of the european peoples, who have nothing to gain by challenging our russian neighbour. the promise of the european federalists, who promised to lead our nations towards peace, is losing all credibility. everyone sees the us action which has sought in recent months to stoke tensions with moscow on all fronts to try to gain its foothold on nord stream 2. it is an unconditional condemnation of the united states that we should proceed with today. it is time our american partner stopped dragging old europe around like a cumbersome servant.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i’m sorry, i’ve been talking too long and this session has been too long. i think i will have to be replaced by my colleague, ms johansson. thank you for helping me, because i have to attend other important activities. but let me open the session on china. on 22 march, the european union took the important decision to make greater use of the european union global human rights sanction regime to address serious human rights violations around the world. the package of measures adopted included the listing of four individuals and one entity from china who are directly responsible for human rights violations. this is a premier. this is something that has never happened before. not only persons, but entities. this was consistent with our long-standing concerns about the situation in xinjiang, which we have been stressing continuously in this house, and the european union has repeatedly raised in meetings with its chinese counterparts everywhere, even in the united nations. but then came china’s retaliatory measures, which are of a different character. as i mentioned immediately after the foreign affairs council on 22 march, they targeted 10 european individuals and four entities for participating in european union decision-making processes or for having expressed their opinion and promoted human rights and fundamental freedoms – legitimately, through democratic institutions and organisations. maybe it is difficult for the chinese to understand what it means for a parliamentarian to be free to express their opinions, even if they are strongly critical of anything at all – even of me. so once again, i wish to express my full solidarity with the members of this parliament, with the subcommittee on human rights, and with all other individuals and entities affected by the chinese retaliatory measures, namely the political and security committee of the council, members of national parliaments, as well as swedish and german academics, and think tanks in germany and denmark. these are wide sanctions on thinkers for thinking and freely expressing their thinking. it is not for doing; it is just for thinking and expressing thoughts. we have firmly expressed our dissent to our chinese counterparts, both in brussels and other european union capitals, and we will continue to do so for as long as these measures are in place. we will do this in the framework of the european union’s strategic approach to china. because we also have to engage with china. we have to continue engaging with china to advance on issues of common interest, while at the same time standing firm on our values. although there are growing challenges in our relations, i think this multifaceted approach remains valid. incidentally, i’m happy to see that our american friends are using exactly the same approach to deal with china. we will keep engaging with china in this way, which is our own way, because china is a key economic and political player with whom continued engagement is needed. without china global challenges cannot be addressed effectively, from tackling climate change and the pandemic to the coup in myanmar, the iran nuclear deal and the global balance of power. so yes, we have to engage with china, but keep in mind that, on the other hand, there is systemic rivalry because our systems are different and sometimes relations turn difficult, as happened last month. i think this is going to be an important debate in parliament on relations with china. the european union council will take care of this relationship. we remain vigilant, trying to maintain this engagement – which we cannot avoid – while, at the same time, being firm in the defence of our values.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr borrell, i thank you very much for your words. i would like to say that the sanctions against china once again show that the country is not prepared to enter into a dialogue with europe on respect for human rights. the european union does not accept violations of human rights and will not be silenced by unfounded sanctions by a communist regime. i say this because there will probably be some members in this chamber who are nostalgic and who will defend them later. we haven't done that in other geographies - look at our performance with russia. hong kong, spying on european institutions, the uyghur minority... anyway, a lot of issues we have to solve. china is a global actor, said the high representative, who has been taking up his role among the world's great powers. we do not doubt the need to establish solid channels of dialogue and cooperation with the chinese government, but we do not close our eyes to policies which run counter to european values. we will not allow the reprisals we are discussing today to dissuade us, nor will we accept that the dialogue continues unabated when the chinese government arbitrarily punishes not only institutions but also fellow members of parliament who sit with us for speaking freely, effectively, even critically, as is done in this parliament. to give in to this is to give in to the values that unite us in this house.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us not give up. let us not give in to this regime which is keeping millions of human beings in camps and is now trying to silence us. this debate is not a debate about china, it is a debate about ourselves, about who we are and who we want to be, together. we are, you and i, the custodians of that question of humanity which victor hugo opposed to the question of governments and from which the chinese communist party intends to escape. through its sanctions, a tyranny seeks to dictate the agenda of this parliament; it is attacking the subcommittee on human rights because it does not want to answer the question of humanity, but it intends to continue to discuss with the committee on international trade because it likes to talk a lot about money. then we can't accept it. let's refuse to debate and vote on the investment agreement with china as long as we are subject to sanctions. it is a question of our dignity and the dignity of the peoples we represent. my dear colleagues, you all know hamlet's question: to be or not to be. that is the question we must answer here and now. to be free or to be nothing, to be a sovereign assembly or to be a croupier parliament, a doormat on which sits a tyrant with blood-stained boots and his bonded servants with pockets full of bills. politics sometimes requires courage, the courage to look the executioner squarely in the eye and tell him that a crime against humanity is of interest to all humanity; the courage also to close the door to the emissaries of volkswagen, siemens, zara and all those multinationals which are so closely linked to china that they have become its ambassadors in the european debate; the courage to pay the price of dignity and not to give in to sanctions or threats. let us not fear, we will be strong if we decide to.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, when we lose the right to be different, we lose the privilege to be free. these words, said by charles evans hughes a hundred years ago, perfectly describe what is happening in china today. let’s be honest: there cannot be true democracy unless minority voices are heard; there cannot be true democracy unless all ethnic groups are given the opportunity to take responsibility for their own lives. the european union made the right decision to impose sanctions on four chinese individuals and one entity responsible for human rights abuses against the uyghurs, but beijing’s answer was completely disproportionate. sanctioning members of the european parliament, including myself, only proved that what has been said and done in this house is the right thing and that we should continue to support the uyghurs and all ethnic groups in china. being part of a minority that faced a similar destiny during the communist regime in my country, i cannot help but take this cause as a personal one. the truth is that the situation on the ground is getting worse by the day. it is time to rethink our strategic relationship with china because it risks turning into a political division. of course, we want to have an open dialogue, not unilateral criticism. therefore, we have to insist on strong and enforceable human rights clauses in the eu—china comprehensive agreement on investment and the lifting of the chinese retaliatory sanctions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the sanctions imposed by the people's republic of china on us in this parliament are not random. they are an attack on the heart of european democracy. they mark a new high point in china's aggressive quest for power. if an authoritarian regime claims to punish parliamentarians wherever they live for exercising their right to freedom of expression and for speaking out against brutal violations of human rights, what remains of the freedoms that are at the heart of our european thinking, feeling and action? the regime of xi jinping is increasingly behaving like a schoolyard bully. these gentlemen act as if there were no international law except their own arbitrariness. the communist party leader xi jinping and his vassals are tightening the noose not only against us but also against india, the usa, australia, the philippines, japan, canada, the uk, taiwan and even african countries which they have driven into debt dependency. beijing is doing this because they think they are strong enough to do it now. and they are very strong indeed. too strong for any single eu country to stand alone. even the united states needs allies in the confrontation between democracy and authoritarianism, because otherwise it cannot meet the challenges. xi jinping is putting the world on a mission for the century. and we must not be so frivolous, so complacent, so blind that we imagine it is already clear that the unfreedom, the authoritarian re-design of the world will not win. the way we exist depends, in my view, on three central questions: can we make democracies stand together in solidarity to protect and support each other? can we offer africa, southeast asia and latin america a fair partnership, instead of our greed driving them to chinese hegemony? can we rebuild our own countries politically, socially, economically and ecologically, so that our model will shine again? this european generation must do this. we're running out of time. dystopia is not a distant threat. but we are encouraged by people like ilham tohti, our sakharov prize winner, who, with their much higher commitment, are setting an example for us in this fight.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, five meps, four national parliamentarians, institutions and in particular the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights what a symbol, it is still something important for us. the chinese authorities have chosen their sanctions targets carefully. it is not just individuals or institutions that are being targeted, but, of course, principles. this was recalled: free discussion, respect for conflicting opinions, promotion of fundamental rights. and so here we are faced with the reality of imperialism uncomplicated by a power pushed by an authoritarian party-state that plays the balance of power. and we must react to this balance of power, because in such circumstances, if we add to this the abuses committed in hong kong and against the uyghurs, europe must have a clear and united position. and frankly, the first thing we should do is to consider without humiliation and without disgrace to continue an investment agreement? but this is absurd, because it gives the impression of a european continent which is only concerned with business and is indifferent to the question of human rights and respect for democracy. so we have to act. if we really want to prove that europe is not just a supermarket, but also has principles that it lives by, then the only concrete, tangible and political conclusion we must all reach together is to reject the investment agreement we discussed a few weeks ago. many colleagues were enthusiastic, but i think that enthusiasm is no longer the case; we must respond with force and vigor.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, "my job was to undress women and handcuff them so they could not move; then i had to leave and chinese men took my place", these are the words of gulzira auelkhan, a kazakh woman forced to condone torture and indecent sexual violence, the horror of the so-called re-education camps in xinjiang, aimed at destroying the uighurs, one of the ethnic minorities most distinct from the country's majority ethnicity, the han. could we have kept silent as democratically elected parliamentarians? turn around? i'm not going. i think not! unless, of course, we're willing to betray ourselves. if beijing really wants constructive relations with our europe, a real dialogue as we want it, then we must act immediately to have the sanctions they have imposed on us removed, to have the ilo conventions against forced labour ratified and to have international inspectors in those fields. by sanctioning us, they are not attacking us, they are not attacking our people, but they are attacking the very nature of our institution. and we won't accept that. i hope we will not vote for that agreement until all these conditions have been met.
madam president, the european union is a symbol and a firm promoter of international human rights and the right of freedom of religion and belief. respect for democracy, freedom of expression and religion, human dignity and equality must remain the basis of our internal and external policies. without these values, the european union will lose the appeal and reputation that it enjoys on the world stage and in multilateral organisations. as a famous writer said ‘i don’t agree with what you say, but i will defend to the death your right to say it’. our society is based on respect and tolerance for others. we, as representatives of our citizens in this house, are also spokespersons for these values in the world. condemning and banning our colleagues for speaking on these values represents an attack on the foundations of our society. imposing sanctions on european entities and members of parliament is a sign of refusing this respect. we have a long way ahead of us to bridge this huge gap that exists between our societies. i sympathise with our colleagues who have been sanctioned, and call for us to strongly object to the chinese measures.
madam president, during the previous plenary session i spoke about the counter-sanctions imposed by the chinese authorities on our assembly and about china's desire to silence our democratic institution, which has the duty to defend the european and universal values of human rights enshrined in our treaties. today, the debate is not about china, as my colleague rapahaël glucksmann has said, but about the ability of this parliament to defend our democracy, which is under attack by an authoritarian regime. ladies and gentlemen, i have just one question for you: are you prepared to accept that a regime, a dictatorship, can decide our political agenda, can impose on us what is right or wrong to think, can impose on us our priorities? it is not a matter of defending a right or left position, but of defending our democracy. if human rights in china, if the rights of the uighur minorities, if the rights of the pro-democracy people in hong kong or taiwan cannot be discussed in this parliament, then nothing about china can be discussed in this parliament. the high representative has done his job and taken sanctions, we have to do our job in this parliament... (the president withdraws the speaker)
madam president, democracy is not a pretext, as our chinese colleagues tell us, nor are human rights open to interpretation. china exercises tyranny, in the name of the majority, at the cost of enormous suffering of its people in terms of freedoms and human rights. china's response to the sanctions imposed by the european union is an action that deserves a firm response from this parliament. it is not only trying to silence the subcommittee on human rights of this parliament, but it is sending a threatening message to all those who approach the subcommittee on human rights to denounce the situation there. that is why we must draw important conclusions. firstly - and i am addressing both the commission and the council - we need to drastically increase support for human rights defenders in china and establish humanitarian visas for these defenders. secondly, the virulence and the speed with which china has responded shows that we are on the right track, because when we point the finger at the perpetrators of these human rights violations, they are taken for granted; they are affected; they are enraged; they are hurt; they are ashamed and they respond in this way. and thirdly, we must tell china that we are indeed going to talk to them, but they will not tell us the agenda: they will not tell us which committee they want to talk to in this parliament, or whether to talk about trade, yes, but human rights, no.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, communist china is the evil empire of the third millennium and represents the greatest danger to our freedom and our democracy. the list of crimes committed by the chinese communist dictatorship is very long. the covid emergency that has shaken our lives, the war against hong kong, the military threats against taiwan, the uyghur genocide, the persecution of christians, the daily human rights violations: it is unacceptable that communist china is threatening to silence meps who denounce the misdeeds of the beijing regime. and it is unacceptable that europe is silently complicit in the abuses of the chinese dictatorship, as demonstrated by a 5g game and the crazy investment agreement with beijing. no more double-dealing, no more ambiguity, no more blood-soaked business with communist china, which is waging an economic and a civil war against the western world. ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to tell the truth to our citizens, because we are at a crossroads in history. on the one hand, the free world of western democracies; on the other side, the world of dictatorship, of repression, of violence. together with our american allies, we must all fight this battle of civilization and democracy against communist china, so that good will triumph over evil and freedom will triumph over dictatorship.
madam president, the unacceptable chinese sanctions against members of this parliament and several national parliaments are a continuation of its policy against human rights – a policy which it has been pursuing against people such as the uyghurs and the tibetans, against linguistic and cultural minorities like the inner mongolians, and against artists and political dissidents like ai weiwei, one of the most influential creators of our time. in the face of any crisis or challenge, the world asks for answers to the questions posed. if the questions are about quantum technology and 5g, then the answers are mostly expected from china, because this is the country that invests the most in these fields. but when the world wonders about democracy, the answers are not expected from china. they are expected from those who invest in it the most. and, in this area, the european union, with all its imperfections and mistakes, is a world power. now it’s our turn to give one of these long-awaited answers.
madam president, commissioner, firmness, solidarity, consistency and determination are the four principles which must guide us. firmness: member states have finally imposed sanctions on chinese officials responsible for the repression of the uighurs and, let us not forget, the hong kong democrats. we cannot and could not remain silent. solidarity with our colleagues targeted by retaliatory measures: we stand up for human rights, universal rights to which china should subscribe. and china is attacking democracy; it's simply unacceptable. coherence: it is unthinkable that we could ratify the agreement on investment facilitation between the european union and china. the lifting of sanctions is a necessary but not sufficient condition; we have many expectations that china will have to meet. determination: let us not let our guard down, let us build our strategic autonomy, let us equip ourselves with a powerful legislative arsenal to respond to all attacks, whether in the field of human rights, whether commercial or economic. let us, ladies and gentlemen, rise to the occasion.
madam president, in this draft investment agreement, mr xi, you say that you want to ratify the ilo conventions. then do it, mr president, since there is nothing to stop you. do not wait a month, do not wait a day, because we, the representatives of the european union, will not take any vote until you have fulfilled this commitment. and then there is the second point, mr president. you have imposed sanctions on several of our colleagues and on an entire subcommittee of our parliament. you did not punish human rights violations, but the denunciation of human rights violations. we do not accept it, mr president, because it is unacceptable. so let me be clear: know this, we will not be talking about this deal either until these sanctions are lifted. so you know our terms; they're two-fold, and if you want our relationship to resume a normal course, the ball is in your court.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the government and people of india who are facing a sharp spike in covid infections today. india is a great country and the future of european nations depends on improving our relations with its government. we were all delighted that prime minister modi was meeting the leaders of european states in porto to strengthen our relations. unfortunately, we understand that his role is to stand by the indian nation in its present plight. i note, however, that my colleagues on the committee on foreign affairs have greatly damaged the text and the atmosphere of this meeting, by turning this text we are studying into an ngo pamphlet rather than a political strategy. what they believe to be a demonstration of their virtues is just further proof to the world that arrogance and blindness have become the watchwords of european foreign policy. many will tell you that the european union is a vital trading partner for india. it's giving us power we don't have. germany is the only country among the 10 major trading partners of india. france, for example, must increase its trade with delhi, among others. in view of the economic openness and the progress of indian power, it is therefore essential that we free ourselves from the prejudices of many ideologues in the commission to negotiate with india around our well-understood mutual interests. in short, we need to get out of a situation where the european union grants gsp+ status to pakistan, which supports islamism, especially in kashmir, but refuses to get along with india, because of ideological prejudices against prime minister modi. the porto summit, even if it is held in line, must be an opportunity to finally change the line.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by remembering david and roberto, the two spanish journalists killed in burkina faso, and also the french police who were beheaded in paris. terrorists kill to make propaganda, to show off, to scare, to capture and turn some into murderers, whether suicidal or not. in a world like today, in a world of our relationships conditioned by the digital framework and the internet, terrorists take advantage of that. in the last five years, we have legislated and gotten lethality down, but not fanaticism. jihadist-inspired or otherwise fanatics adapt to continue to exercise their macabre narcissism. this regulation will allow for the rapid removal of terrorist content online, making it more difficult for the internet to be used to facilitate or commit online crimes as defined in the counter-terrorism directive adopted by the european parliament four years ago. the debate has been intense. we have reached a broad consensus thanks to the proportionality of the measures and the respect for fundamental rights. the matter certainly deserves debate because, in addition to the most obvious crimes, the line between freedom of expression and criminal conspiracy to destroy it must be treated with clarity. i must say that i am very grateful to all my colleagues and, of course, to our rapporteur, the responsibility, because we look ahead and not down the challenge. because we've been responsible. because think about it, if the terrorists who kill manage to hide behind the mask of freedom of speech, if they get us to believe that stopping them is a form of censorship, we are digging our own grave. solving the problems of citizens today is about winning in security, not letting down our guard in the face of violent fanatics, not giving in to fear. i am pleased to say that the groups which were more belligerent in committee have not asked for this agreement to be rejected in the house. the citizens would not forgive us if we acted irresponsibly. the citizens of europe need us to minimise the barbarity of terrorism without losing their freedom. we have not failed them. we must not let them down in the future.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the online presence of terrorists is increasing, so it is crucial to remove terrorist propaganda from the internet and to prevent it from appearing in the first place by any means possible. this regulation is a milestone in this struggle and i would like to thank my polish colleague patryk jaki, the rapporteur, for his tireless work in this long and difficult process. the compromise reached on the one hand increases the responsibility of internet service providers to identify and remove terrorist content. it also offers authorities a fast, cross-border solution, with appropriate safeguards, to remove terrorist content online within one hour of contacting a provider in another country. providers must also ensure that content that has been removed cannot be uploaded elsewhere. and to those few mps who even thought of viktor orbán on this subject, i say: fight not the hungarian prime minister, but the terrorists! believe me, they would be better served by the people of europe.
madam president, ‘get terrorist propaganda off the internet’: that is our simple but important message today. because the internet, as we all know, is an extremely powerful communication and networking tool that is used as a force for good in so many ways, but we can never be naive about those who use it as a force for evil, using it to spread hatred, violence and terrorism. we know the digital environment offers easy ways to radicalise and we know it plays an important role in recruitment in terrorist training and in dissemination of terrorist ideas. the influence of illegal content is so great that it is posing a security risk to the whole of the eu, and we’ve seen its destructive power in terrorist attacks in europe and beyond. the attack against french teacher samuel paty was a direct result of an online hate campaign. madam commissioner, you already mentioned christchurch. the videos of that attack: 1.5 million times it was deleted from facebook in 24 hours. as you rightly said, some of those videos are still online because these videos and these hate campaigns spread across online platforms like a virus, and they’re equally deadly, and as we are all very aware these days, the only way to stop a virus is with a rapid and a determined response. this is why this regulation is so important. i congratulate my colleagues for the good result. any propaganda that prepares, incites or glorifies acts of terrorism will be removed within one hour. and that is good news because we need to get terrorist propaganda off our internet.
madam president, commissioner johansson, as this parliament debates the prevention of the dissemination of terrorist content on the internet, i too pay tribute to the memory of roberto fraile and david beriain, two spanish journalists killed by jihadist terrorism in burkina faso. there was a time when when terrorism struck european citizens, the member states of which they were nationals felt alone. but that time has passed, because now there is an area of freedom, justice and security which makes the fight against terrorism a european matter. it makes this european parliament the criminal law-giver, the procedural law-giver, the law-giver on guarantees and the law-giver on police and judicial cooperation against the transnational crime that offends us most. terrorism is a case and therefore we are doing the right thing and i am glad that the negotiator and his team have succeeded, after hard work, in culminating it with this final parliamentary act of adoption of the regulation. because it started in 2019, and, with midterm elections, it has been very difficult to reach a meeting point that would clarify all the issues raised: withdrawal orders, which were the competent authorities, not only judicial, who can order the withdrawal within an hour of content that threatens to radicalize, spread, incite hatred, violence, or finance terrorist actions. and this, therefore, protects the security of europeans and is an example of how this parliament is also guaranteeing that right to security of europeans, which is a fundamental right, along with the right to liberty and enshrined in article 6 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, the attack on the young policewoman in rambouillet, france, and the murder of professor samuel paty in conflans-sainte-honorine have recently shown that social networks have a considerable relaying and amplifying effect for calls for violence and terrorist propaganda. let's face it: the perpetrators of these crimes are becoming more radical, are gathering together, are organising themselves through the internet and social networks. it is time to equip ourselves with effective tools to combat these modern threats. the text will allow member states to demand the removal of terrorist content from the internet in less than one hour by addressing online platforms directly, and this across europe. the european parliament has obtained strong guarantees in terms of the protection of personal data and the right of recourse for any person who would be harmed by an unfortunate withdrawal. the platforms will also be supervised in their activities. i would like to commend the determination of our group renew europe and particularly my colleague maite pagazaurtundúa, who was one of the main architects of this agreement. i welcome this important step forward for the security of our citizens, in europe and worldwide.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, islamist terrorism is one of the greatest scourges of our time. france has recently paid the price, notably with the attack and beheading of a teacher, samuel paty, on october 16, 2020, on his way out of his school, and then with the murder of a police officer on april 23. in both cases, the attack was carried out via the internet. in the paty case, the victim was identified and located by her killer because of a call for murder broadcast by a third party, and in the april 23 case, the killer had become radicalized because of islamist propaganda websites. these tragedies therefore demonstrate, if need be, the need to strengthen the prevention of the online dissemination of terrorist content. i therefore approve the proposal for a regulation which has been tabled to this end today. the european union is well placed to contribute to this public safety work, given the cross-border nature of the internet. the text is strong in that it requires digital platforms to remove their terrorist content within a maximum of one hour after receiving a removal order. any platform that fails to comply could be fined up to 4% of its global turnover. furthermore, it respects national sovereignty, since it entrusts to each state the task of designating the public authority competent to issue the withdrawal order. finally, it preserves the right to a fair trial by giving the addressees or victims of the injunction the right to bring the matter before the national courts concerned. for all these reasons, i support this text.
madam president, in some states of this european union, one can be officially targeted as a traitor to the nation or an enemy of the state for merely questioning a government decision. in some of the states of this european union, the constitution can be interpreted as judging the fact of organizing a referendum as a terrorist act. in some eu countries, government officials and senior officials have described minor damage to property by environmental activists as an act of terrorism. we were not allowed to vote on the second reading in this parliament on the regulation on the prevention of the dissemination of terrorist content online. yet this regulation will have a significant impact on our collective freedoms. tomorrow, the ministry of the interior of one country will be able to have content that it has declared terrorist in the neighboring country removed within an hour by addressing directly to the platform that hosts it, without any judicial authority from either country ever having had a say. of course, it will then be possible to challenge the decision in court and perhaps to get justice if this is legitimate, but only afterwards. in the meantime, the european union will have created the opportunity for a form of prior censorship, which goes against the fundamental elements of freedom of expression.
madam president, while i welcome the agreement reached on this recast of the regulation, i think it could have been more ambitious. people with disabilities face long-term barriers, including in rail transport, where they have to report their need for assistance tens of hours before travelling. the agreement reduced this period by half, but again with the possibility of derogation. and it is these exceptions, whether in the form of possible extension of deadlines, the complete exclusion of some links or long implementation periods, that make this change, which should have led to greater inclusiveness, leave a sense of half-hearted success. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the deadlines are met. colleagues, we are committed to full accessibility and inclusion for people with disabilities, with the stated goal of integrating people with disabilities into society and enabling them to reach their full potential, by preventing them through our own decisions. and so this agreement remains, to some extent, a wasted opportunity.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions to this interesting debate, and the commission looks forward to finalising the legislative process on this file with this fair, balanced and workable text. let me also clarify some points that have been raised in the debate today. it’s not correct that the agreement provides for rerouting to be after 100 minutes in the future. the general rule on rerouting remains 60 minutes. the 100 minutes concerns the right to self—rerouting, which is in the interests of the passenger. force majeure does not apply for a bit of snow, but only in severe weather conditions. as many of you have stressed, attracting more people to choose rail for their transport is central to achieve european green deal goals. the modernised rules of rail passengers’ rights will be an important step towards improved european passengers’ rights legislation and particularly important, as many of you have stressed, in this european year of rail 2021. therefore, i once again would like to thank you for all the good work on this important file.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear commissioner, honourable members, what the chair of the committee on employment committee and social affairs, ms lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, said is absolutely impressive, so my answers will be a bit technical compared with the heartfelt story that she gave us. i hope that whatever i say will help andrej. child poverty is a critical issue that we must commit to addressing with energy and urgency. i would like to thank the european parliament for the resolution adopted in november 2015, which cleared the way for the current proposal for a council recommendation establishing a european child guarantee. i’ve also read with a lot of interest the resolution from 22 april that will be voted upon tomorrow in this house. in 2019, more than 91 million were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, which is about 3.4 million people fewer than the previous year, and yet the risk of social exclusion and poverty for children aged below 18 remains extremely high, and the covid—19 pandemic and its dramatic social and economic consequences has put national health, education and social protection systems under unprecedented pressure, leaving millions of children and their families in precarious socio—economic situations. in particular, households with children from disadvantaged groups have been disproportionately hit by the consequences of the ongoing crisis. it is in this very difficult context that the commission presented the action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, and on 24 march the commission adopted its long—awaited proposal for a council recommendation establishing a european child guarantee. the council welcomed this proposal, and within three weeks the council started its examination. i have to say this is a real priority for the portuguese presidency of the council. we have put this forward and immediately all delegations, without exception, are constructively contributing to this debate with a view to its use and quick adoption. the proposal aims at supporting member states’ strategies for preventing and combating child poverty and social exclusion by allowing children in need to have access to high—quality key services. we are all aware that child poverty and social exclusion are the result of different interconnected factors. national plans are essential to address the root causes of this phenomenon, and these plans should be coordinated at different policy areas involving all relevant actors – so, as was said here, a horizontal approach with the involvement also of local communities. poverty and social exclusion dramatically affect present and future opportunities for children, too often triggering their generational transfer. ensuring quality education, including childhood education and care, is the only way to break this cycle. to find the right solutions, national circumstances such as the design of social protection systems, social services and the organisation of education systems must be taken into account. in particular it should be for the member states to identify the categories of children in need and the specific challenges to be addressed, taking into account their country—specific situation and regional differences. while further coordinated efforts are needed to combat the risk of poverty, a number of valuable measures have already been implemented by member states to ensure that children, including those with special needs, can access high—quality essential services. responding to the covid—19 crisis, member states have put together a wide range of measures – short—time work schemes, special income support mechanisms for households with children, and extension of social protection coverage. in order to help member states in their efforts, the council and european parliament swiftly endorsed extraordinary financial support, as proposed by the commission. the efficient use of the available national and european funds is key to successfully tackling child poverty and social exclusion. the financial resources allocated in the 2021—2027 budget will support implementation of the european child guarantee, in particular the european social fund, the recovery and resilience facility, through the national recovery funds or the national recovery plans, the erdf, the react—eu. a coordinated approach to reform and investment at union and national level is fundamental to reach the ambitious target of reducing the number of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least five million by 2030, as set out in the european pillar of social rights. this is a target that we hope could be supported at the porto social summit, a key moment for the portuguese presidency. we sincerely hope that by then we can bring in member states, the european union institutions, as well as the social partners and civil society, to adhere to this target. finally, we concur with the european parliament on the fact that the european semester represents the main instrument to ensure the coordination and the monitoring of employment, social and macroeconomic policies at national and union level. in the last years, the social dimension of the semester has become more prominent, thanks also to the integration of the european pillar of social rights and other relevant international instruments in the semester process. the council supports the cooperation between member states and the social protection committee aiming to facilitate mutual learning, exchange of best practices and monitoring of the measures promoted in the framework of the recommendation on the child guarantee. we will continue to work hard in order to adopt this recommendation during the portuguese presidency.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i want to thank the honourable members for putting the newly adopted commission proposal for a council recommendation establishing a european child guarantee on the agenda of the european parliament. i would also express my gratitude to the european parliament, and particularly to those who have asked these questions on the implementation of the european child guarantee. you have played a pioneering role in encouraging this ambitious commission proposal and you have played an active role in our common efforts to reduce child poverty and social exclusion. and we just now heard that this has to be a priority. this is not a question of choice. this is a question of moral obligation, and i was very glad to hear from the council president that the council sees that the same way. i do not need to remind you of the shocking reality that in today’s europe, more than one out of five children face poverty and social exclusion risk. ms nicholsonová you have given a name to this shocking reality. you have given a name to these children, with their needs, with their dreams and their hopes, which will stay unfulfilled forever, and their future which will not be, in many cases, a bright future. i think there is a problem beyond child poverty as such. there is also the issue of communities suffering most from exclusion and especially children from these communities suffering from exclusion. we also all know that the current crisis is particularly affecting children and families from disadvantaged backgrounds, but also from families that have lost their income and single-parent families. because we want to build a better and fairer europe, we need to tackle inequalities, poverty and social exclusion at their roots. we need to break the intergenerational cycle of disadvantage, and invest in children now, in their well-being and in their equal opportunities to safeguard their economic and social and, i would say, personal future, but also our future, our collective future. the european child guarantee is only part of the overall response. reducing child poverty requires contribution from other initiatives as well. improving the income situation of families in poverty is linked to improving the performance of our economies, labour market participation, working conditions and strengthening social protection systems, investment in affordable housing and also financial support for families. that is why further implementing the european pillar of social rights, in line with our recent action plan, is key. we all need to work towards the target set to reduce the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 5 million by 2030, and this is an important contribution for our general objective to reduce poverty by at least 15 million. social investment requires not only decisive policy actions but also well—devised financial support. the major part of funding supporting the implementation of the child guarantee needs to come from the member states themselves, obviously. they should realise that if they invest and put in place the right policies now, they avoid much higher costs for individuals and society at a later stage. the eu budget will have different eu funds available to fight child poverty and social exclusion. those member states with a level of children at risk of poverty above the eu average for the years 2017 to 2019, meaning above 23.4%, will have to use at least 5% of their european social fund plus (esf+) resources to targeted actions and structural reforms to tackle child poverty. eleven member states are concerned by this requirement. the remaining member states should allocate an appropriate amount of their esf+ resources to targeted actions to combat child poverty. the commission will assess whether an amount is appropriate depending on each member state’s particular national situation. in addition to the esf, the commission will call upon the member states to maximise synergies and make optimal use of the european regional development fund, reacteu, investeu, the recovery and resilience facility, and the technical support instrument. in line with the objectives set by one of the pillars of the recovery and resilience facility, focusing on children and youth, it is important that adequate investments and reforms are covered in the national recovery and resilience plans with a view to boosting inclusive and quality early—childhood education and care and health care, if we want to create the conditions for more resilient economies and societies. the pandemic has interrupted the education of an entire generation. children living in poverty pay the heaviest price as inequalities in learning widen. many children and young people do not have access to remote learning. for those who rely on school-based nutrition programmes, closures of their schools means being cut off from the food they need to learn and thrive. we must do more to reach out to those children and families to understand their needs better and offer them tailor-made support. the child guarantee encourages member states to develop effective outreach strategies, particularly at local level. it also highlights the role of schools, civil society organisations, the social economy, social and family services, and other actors in raising awareness and encouraging the take-up of the services covered by the child guarantee. honourable members, i appreciate your question on the integrated and multi-dimensional approach to tackling child poverty and social exclusion. this is what the commission has been strongly encouraging for many years. now is the time to act more decisively. child poverty and social exclusion can only be effectively addressed if we put in place a comprehensive strategy encompassing all relevant policy areas, social employment, economic and also transfer policies. the child guarantee offers guidance to member states on how to build a strong, enabling framework and a multi-dimensional approach to support children in need, and encourages them to develop effective prevention measures based on encompassing national plans and the leading role of national coordinators. at the european level, we will support member states in this endeavour through the range of initiatives in the framework of the european pillar of social rights. finally, the monitoring of the impact of the child guarantee is key. indeed, the adoption of the recommendation, which we hope to have happen soon – and i appreciate very much the ambition of the portuguese presidency – is only a first step in our work. we will need to concentrate on its successful implementation. supporting the quantitative and qualitative monitoring and evaluation of the child guarantee is crucial and remains a priority for the commission. the proposal envisages strengthened arrangements in this regard. we will monitor the child guarantee in the framework of the european semester, supported by the revised social scoreboard and its new headline indicator on children at risk of poverty or social exclusion. we will work closely with member states and national child—guarantee coordinators. the social protection committee will be our partner in the joint effort to develop a common monitoring framework. in this spirit, the commission will also review the implementation of the child guarantee if necessary five years after its adoption.
i would like to thank commissioner schmit and mr zacarias for their speeches and their commitment to the child guarantee. this is a top priority for this parliament. it has been several years since we, as socialists and democrats, launched the campaign to create this new instrument, years of commitment carried out together with organisations dealing with child rights policy. i would like to thank in particular the organisations of the alliance for investing in children. the commission has put forward a very good proposal to tackle the multidimensional nature of child poverty in a concrete way, to offer effective free access to quality services for all children, especially those in vulnerable situations: measures for early childhood care, education, health care, decent housing, healthy and nutritious meals, all things that should be the norm for all children. unfortunately, that is not the case today. one in five children in europe is living below the poverty line: 18 million, almost 3 million in my country, italy. i would therefore appeal to the council: adopt this recommendation with the european parliament's indications to reinforce it as a matter of urgency; adopt the national action plans rapidly; integrate the guarantee with the national recovery plans with the european social fund, with the disability rights strategy; and i want you to use every penny you have, because it's not enough to reduce child poverty, we have to eradicate it completely. there is no acceptable level of this child poverty. this requires structural measures, adequate resources, investment in housing policies, education, training, childcare, social and health services, but above all the political will to fight for a new social agenda for europe. at the social europe summit in porto on 7 may, the european union will send a strong signal that it is not enough to be an adult to be great: to be truly great, europe must help future generations, starting with children.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam secretary of state, mr commissioner, dear nicolas, dear colleagues, it is very late tonight to talk about our future, our children, the 18 million children who, in 2019, were living below the poverty line or at risk of poverty in europe. this shows how much we welcome the european guarantee for children, which we have long called for. it is now essential that it is adopted swiftly by the member states and that it becomes a permanent instrument. we stress that the member states will have to devote all possible national resources, supplemented by the various european funding instruments, to combating child poverty. in this sense, the guarantee offers objectives that go in the right direction, but it is not sufficient in itself. we need a comprehensive framework, addressing the structural roots of poverty, and a holistic approach to early childhood development. the fight against child poverty must focus on new and sustainable solutions, solutions that bring together public and private partners. these expenditures can generate a return on investment at the societal level of at least four times the initial costs. moreover, beyond funds and political measures, we must ensure real coordination at union level to implement them. a european childhood authority could provide the ideal framework to bring together stakeholders, exchange best practices and ensure effective implementation of the european child guarantee. this does not imply any amendment of the treaty, any loss of national sovereignty, or even the creation of new competences.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on a subject as sensitive and universal as that of children, we should be in agreement and we would be unanimous if the european union did not have the skill to turn everything it touches into an ideological weapon. why are lgbtqi+ and gender equality mentioned in this text? why mention the european minimum wage directive or the sustainable development goals? however, the text does not directly address another issue, that of migrant minors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, the concept of the best interests of the child could be put forward by not allowing isolated minors from third countries to come or by returning them to their families, and this could be done by mobilising european funds, such as the asylum and migration fund. then, not surprisingly, the drafters of the resolution ask the commission to set up a european authority for children. behind this manoeuvre, the union is trying to interfere in the competence of the member states, in this case social policy. the best way to protect european children who are victims of poverty, exclusion and violence - and this text is legitimate on these points - is to complement state action and not to replace it with global policies.
madam president, today france has submitted its recovery plan to the european commission and clearly no lessons have been learned from the crisis we are going through. it is a return to the great gallop of the old world and its austerity measures. in exchange for european funding, france is committed to reforming unemployment insurance and to launching a thorough pension reform. so, commissioner schmit, mrs zacarias, you have come here to talk to us about the european union's strategy on the rights of the child. but how can the european union protect children if their parents are faced with the austerity and precariousness that you are maintaining? the crisis has shown us that your budget cuts have led us right into the wall. and if we are starting to get out of it, it is thanks to public service, public investment and it is thanks to solidarity. so instead ask the member states to invest in education, housing, culture, employment, social protection so that the child guarantee really guarantees a future for european children.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to share with you the joy of this moment: the creation of the european defence fund. it is the culmination of very important work and i would like to start by congratulating all those who have contributed to it, especially our colleague zdzisław krasnodębski for the important work he has done on this subject. it seems to me that the european defence fund is the expression of what we like about the european union, namely that we are able to set ourselves a common ambition, in this case in the field of defence industry, so that we can support the armies of our countries in the first place. as you said, mr rapporteur, the point is not to create a european army but to make the means of their missions available to the armed forces of our states by investing together in our strategic autonomy. europe has friends in the world, but it has no overlord, and we are not vassals. we must be able to decide, when we engage our armed forces in a military operation, what means we put at their disposal, without having to ask for the agreement of other world powers, even if they are close to our values or interests. it seems to me that this fund is unfortunately threatened by three threats, three risks which i would like to mention briefly. the first risk is that of lack of ambition. we can see that in the budget negotiations, unfortunately, on the altar of this large european loan, the scale of this fund has been sacrificed. a documentary showed that when the council met to discuss the loan, it was around a corner table in a corridor that it was decided to increase the fund, which had already been reduced, by another €1 billion. seven billion is obviously a start, and it has to be a start. the second risk is the waste of funds. we must avoid at all costs the dispersion of this funding, and invest in structural projects, in strategic projects. and finally, for there to be strategic projects, this is the third major risk, europe still needs to have a strategy; the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is also important that our countries are able to come together in a genuine vision of their role in the world that is emerging. and it seems to me that on many of the major issues of international concern today, europe cannot speak with one voice; it cannot speak clearly for its principles and for what unites it. this is the challenge we face today.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the countless european schemes that form an illegible and ineffective draft, there are some that serve the supporters of a federal europe as a tool for promoting their anti-national agenda. this is the case with the european defence fund, which we are discussing today and whose objective is, i quote, 'to europeanise military equipment'. mr breton, you speak of growing interdependence and you welcome it. in the face of the recent vaccine procurement policy disaster, i am concerned. after the establishment of the european defence agency and the european defence fund, both under the commission's auspices, the growing activism of the european external action service will continue to try to gradually undermine the autonomy of the member states. the whole european defense mess that is accumulating year after year is still tainted by the same flaws: systematic nato supervision, which prevents the eu and its member countries from developing truly sovereign equipment; despite the official discourse, the eligibility for european credit of non-european companies - american, israeli or otherwise - which scatters our financial research effort in all directions - where is the protectionism that is essential to strengthen our industries? the commission's proposal is based on the following principles: bureaucracy that sets in as soon as the commission interferes with a matter requiring, for example, that at least three countries participate in the same initiative, with the result that the participating countries either regain their freedom and develop at national level the capacity that is supposed to be developed jointly, or they buy, as is the case today, from abroad, in the absence of the european project. the development you propose is so anarchic that it forgets the essential: a real organization of the conduct of the programmes. i have repeatedly denounced the federalist approach to defence. in france, the defence industry is a jewel of our country; it is a pledge of its independence, one of the keys to restoring our country to the splendor of its power. if a 'europe of defence' were to be established, it would only be through cooperation between member states, responding to operational needs, projects freely agreed. as regards the industrial dimension, direct cooperation between the state and industry has proved to be very effective. the eu is increasingly locked into its brussels-centrism dogmatism; france must defend its strategic interests and will do so. what a nation does not do for itself, no one will do for it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the implications for the military sector of the new european defence fund, and the need for it to be strategically autonomous has been stressed on several occasions. however, the edf will not only contribute to the interoperability of our armed forces and make the union a credible player on the global chessboard, preventing other players, who do not play by our rules, from gaining the upper hand in our immediate neighbourhood, but it is also a game changer for the european industrial base and its citizens. the inclusion clauses, which our parliament has been at the forefront of defining, will make it possible to share economic returns across all european states, involving large industries, smes, start-ups and other economic entities. this means creating jobs, strengthening european know-how, expanding research and development capacities and, above all, using taxpayers' resources more efficiently, creating true european technological sovereignty. we have therefore set out criteria and rules to ensure that genuine european added value is created in full respect of the union's core principles. it is time for the member states to demonstrate the political will to do so, clearly and with the common interest at the forefront.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr krasnodębski, for concluding the negotiations, and to give a special word of appreciation to commissioner thierry breton, the director-general’s personnel and the whole team from the european commission for the very good initiative. defence and security have become one of the union’s priorities in recent years after a decade of systematic decline. defence spending and investment remain the sole responsibility of the member states and have suffered major reductions. over the same period, for example, defence spending in the united states, our main strategic partner and friend, has increased significantly, while many global competitors, especially russia and china, have upgraded their defence sectors on an unprecedented scale. the european defence industry is among the most technologically advanced in the world, but we are still lagging behind in the global share of equipment exports, and our defence industry is largely represented by small manufacturers and suppliers of equipment. the european defence fund (edf) is the commission’s key initiative from the eu budget to support research, collaboration and development of defence capabilities. it will make a key contribution to europe’s sovereignty, protecting and defending its citizens, promoting defence cooperation between companies, research actors and member states to encourage innovation and develop state—of—the—art defence technologies. it will also promote innovative solutions to a budget line dedicated to disruptive defence technologies, and it is expected that defence funding will be in synergy with the space funding in horizon europe. before the end of 2021, we’re expecting that the commission will also enhance the framework conditions for synergies between the space, defence and security industries.the success of the edf and synergies will only arise and be sustained if there is political support. here, commissioner, you will have the full support of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
mr president, commissioner, today we are signing the birth certificate of the european defence fund. it's about time. we can see that the world has not become safer. the authoritarian regimes are seeking to maintain their power through military adventures, and our continent is surrounded by crisis zones. europe itself is the target of repeated threats: terrorism, cyberattacks, foreign interference, attacks on freedom of navigation, violation of our airspace; even our satellites are being targeted by hostile approaches. in the face of these increased threats, our defence capability is still too dependent on the outside and too fragmented. what the european defence fund brings is the possibility to finance defence industries that cooperate, innovate and contribute to our strategic autonomy. the defence industries in europe are hundreds of thousands of jobs, groups that aspire to become or remain industrial champions, but also a network of more than 15 000 smes. european sovereignty is built in deeds, not just words. because europe is a peace project, we must not hesitate to equip ourselves with the means to defend it and enforce it.
mr president, our countries could save billions in military budgets by integrating their defence industries. we will not do this with this european defence fund. let us regulate this industry to achieve integration; let us not subsidize it. this fund is a false promise. more serious: it is of a disturbing opacity; it will be sorely lacking in parliamentary control, in transparency in its operation and we have not been given any guarantee that the resulting weapons will be strictly subject to european export rules. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. but no, the fund may be extended tomorrow to finance french atomic bombs, which is a complete disaster for a europe that dreamed of a peace project. this is unacceptable. france must show the way to disarmament, and not try to impose the economic and ethical burden of its arsenal on the whole of europe.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, big pharma or health? profit at any cost or the vaccine for everyone? the european union is not lacking in statements of solidarity with the countries of latin america affected by the pandemic, and yet the same european union is refusing to lift patents on vaccines. why would you do that? simply to allow the pharmaceutical industry to amass considerable profits at the expense of the people. this dogmatic obstinacy kept on going, especially since the state should not intervene in the economy! considerably limits production capacity. this is true in europe, and it is even more so in latin america. however, the removal of patents would allow mass production of vaccines at an affordable price. the health situation in latin america is dramatic. the criminal policy of the bolsonaro government in brazil is not to blame, far from it, but rather than perpetuating the tragedy, the european union should activate the only effective lever: lifting the patents on vaccines.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, for too long in pakistan, hatred has had a face: that of religious extremists who brandish the charge of blasphemy against all those who do not share their sad worldview. in recent months, this hatred has been directed at one target: france. because my country has the courage to defend freedom, freedom to believe or not believe, as well as freedom of speech. this hatred is blind, blind to the repeated tragedies of the terrorist attacks my country has suffered. this hatred has gone so far that french people living in pakistan have been advised to leave the country. we expect the pakistani authorities to stand firm, to stand up against hatred, instead of lying or lying, to protect european citizens whose only crime is to come from a country, the country of enlightenment, which will stand firm and continue to fight against obscurantism and in defence of our european values. we are waiting for the pakistani authorities to respond, but how much longer will we have to wait?
mr president, commissioner, the personal cases of shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel which move us today should shed light on the daily ordeal of many eastern christians. after them, after asia bibi, how many more christians will be victims of the application of sharia in islamabad? long sos chrétiens dorient lists more than 220 christians who have been victims of the blasphemy law in force since 1986 in pakistan. since 1990, more than 20 christians have been lynched by angry mobs. our old christian europe is proud to defend our brothers in the east against these attacks; in doing so, it defends itself against the obscurantism that is also gaining ground in our nations. yes, the european nations, and france in particular, have a voice to speak in the east and in the world in defense of christians. it is because it is perceived as a nation that ensures freedom of worship and tolerance that last week, serious violence broke out in islamabad, targeting the french embassy, and our ambassador had to call on french nationals to leave pakistan. as in the case of erdoğan's turkey, the eu is unfortunately reacting very weakly to these provocations. simple and effective measures must be taken. it is time for the member states and the commission to end pakistan's eligibility for the gsp, which grants it trade preferences, and to withdraw all aid from europe. since 2014, pakistan has received more than eur 650 million from the development cooperation financial instrument. not a single euro has to be paid out as long as this barbaric blasphemy law is in force. the common values we defend in our countries and here in the european parliament cannot be merely words, they must be followed by action.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 29 april 2021.
ladies and gentlemen, 17 may is the international day against homophobia, transphobia and biphobia. today it should be clear to everyone that those who want to love have the right to do so as they have the right to be loved. however, the news offers us daily intolerable acts of violence against lgbti people who still face many obstacles in their daily lives and experience the consequences of discrimination heavily: our rights are not dependent on gender identity or sexual orientation. today we celebrate diversity, but above all we defend together the union's values, we fight against discrimination and we promote the rights of all and of lgbti people.
the final draft agenda, approved by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on wednesday 12 may 2021, was distributed. following consultations with the political groups, the following amendments were tabled: tuesday morning: the debate on the council and commission statements on recent deaths in the mediterranean and search and rescue missions at sea takes the place of the debate on the commission statement on a revised industrial strategy for europe and therefore moves to the last item on tuesday morning. afternoon: the debate on mr strik's report on the protection of human rights and the union's external policy on immigration will replace the debate on mr sánchez amor's report on the 2019 and 2020 reports on turkey and will therefore move to the first item on tuesday afternoon. the commission is also proposing to extend the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions on the right of parliament to be informed about the ongoing evaluation of the national recovery and resilience plans, and votes have been postponed from wednesday to thursday. the vote on the amendments will therefore take place in the first round of voting on thursday, while the final vote will take place in the second round on thursday. friday in view of the number of amendments tabled and the requests for votes on separate and distinct parts, a new round of voting was added on friday from 9.45 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. the results will be announced at 1 p.m. consequently, the may part-session is extended until friday, 21 may 2021. i would also like to inform you that, as regards mr daly's recommendation for the second reading on the programme on trade, assistance and training for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting for the period 2021-2027 (the 'pericles iv' programme), no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled, nor have amendments been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the regulation. the council's position is therefore deemed to be approved and the proposed act is therefore deemed to be adopted. finally, i would like to inform the house that the votes have been divided into several rounds of voting, taking into account the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes on separate and distinct parts. however, this breakdown may be subject to change; the information on the distribution of votes is available as usual on the european parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. (the order of business is as follows.) i would like to inform the house that i have received a procedural motion and i will give the floor to mrs juknevičienė for her speech on the commemoration of the day of the heroes of the fight against totalitarianism.
the agenda includes the report by mr christophe grudler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a european strategy for the integration of energy systems (a9-0062/2021) and the report by mr jens geier, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a european strategy for hydrogen (a9-00116/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to present this own-initiative report by the committee on industry, research and energy on the integration of energy systems. this report does not paint an imagined or imaginary picture of our energy system of the future; it presents trends that are already under way throughout europe and the world. nor does it imagine the challenges of the distant future; it highlights the challenges of today, very real challenges. so what has happened since the commission's communication in july 2020? first, the european union narrowly missed the target of 20% renewable energy in its energy mix and failed to achieve its energy efficiency target. second, eight member states have not reached their 10% interconnection target by 2020. in addition, critical raw material shortages due to the covid-19 crisis have caused a slowdown in key sectors such as superconductors, batteries, solar panels and wind turbines. finally, the threat of cyberattacks on energy infrastructure has become very real: they recently hit, for example, one of the main oil pipelines in the united states and paralysed the supply of the east of the country. at the same time, remarkable and structural changes have been initiated in our energy production and consumption. the 2020 renewables trend has continued to follow the 2019 trend, with renewables once again overtaking fossil fuels in electricity generation in europe. solar energy has become the cheapest in the world and its production increased by 20% in europe in 2020. the price of carbon has started to rise exponentially since the end of 2020, and today it is €56 per tonne of co2. investment projects in hydrogen have increased in a few months and europe has become the continent that invests the most in this sector. 2020 also saw an explosion in sales of electric and hybrid vehicles, with gasoline cars falling below the symbolic 50% market share mark. all these figures show that the energy transition is under way in europe. we now know what our energy mix will be in the next few years and we have to ask ourselves new questions. how can we adapt our infrastructure to the new renewable energy, which is highly variable and which increases the pressure on our grids? how can we guarantee security of supply and ensure a fair price for european citizens? how far can we adapt our energy demands by making them more flexible? what are the benefits of making our energy consumption more circular? finally, can we effectively and quickly tackle energy waste and emissions from our buildings and transport, without excluding the most vulnerable citizens from the green and digital transition? this report complements the commission's strategy, since it provides more concrete answers to these questions. it also shows a real awareness within the european parliament that, while we still have differences of opinion, we all have the will to make the transition to climate neutrality a reality, and we are aware of the challenges it poses. we know that these challenges will not be the same from one country to another. but what unites us is a genuine willingness to work together to build them up. our report recognises the fundamental role of the internal energy market and interconnections at all levels in balancing our networks, especially the electricity networks. it highlights the extraordinary opportunities our continent offers for producing more renewable energy, and the solutions that have not yet been fully exploited, which must allow, as of today, a better integration of these renewable energies. finally, it recognises that to ensure our energy supply and energy independence, we need to work together more closely to innovate faster and to bring european technologies to the forefront of markets, whether for energy storage, conversion, transport or reuse. this strategy is more than a strategy: it is a real change in vision. it is for me the missing piece in the establishment of a true energy union, a manifesto, in short, of what we have done since the early hours of the common energy market and of where we are now heading. so in this european year of rail, let us make sure that the union does not take the train, but is able to decide fully on the route, speed and rails to be built. a famous french politician, georges clemenceau, said: you have to know what you want, then you have to have the courage to say it and write it, and finally you have to have the energy to do it. so, colleagues, together we will have all the energy we need to achieve this.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to participate in this session today on the hydrogen and energy system integration own—initiative reports. these two reports and these two strategies were the first documents adopted by the commission in the energy field and they establish the framework and the direction for transforming our energy system and ensuring a balanced and cost-effective path towards climate neutrality. parliament’s work is very timely. the commission is currently preparing the ‘fit for 55’ package – a revision of the energy efficiency and renewable energy directives that will translate into concrete measures. the policy guidelines presented in these two strategies, and your reports and their concrete recommendations are really important for this work. i want to congratulate christophe grudler and jens geier on these two high—quality reports and their ability to strike successful compromises that enjoy broad support across the political spectrum. i agree with many of the points outlined in the reports. let me start with energy system integration. the strategy is about going beyond the established vision of the energy sector as isolated systems and imagining the new energy system of tomorrow. first, it is about having a system that is more efficient, circular and consumes fewer resources. second, it is about integrating a large and growing share of renewable energy and promoting electrification. third, it is about promoting the use of renewable gases and fuels, where electrification is not possible or is too costly. an integrated energy system needs to be based on well-functioning markets, modern infrastructure and on a higher level of digitisation. it is the precondition for the deployment of renewable gases, of which both our strategy and our report stress the importance. in this context, we welcome the support for developing a comprehensive classification and certification framework for renewable gases, based on the full lifecycle of greenhouse gas emissions savings and sustainability criteria. at the same time, we take note of parliament’s request that the additionality requirement for renewable hydrogen be extended beyond its use in transport to cover all renewable hydrogen. we also acknowledge your request to provide additional incentives for the development of smart-charging and vehicle-to-grid functionalities. this will be assessed as part of the revision of both the alternative fuels infrastructure directive and the renewable energy directive in july. finally, we have also taken into due consideration the report’s proposals on the energy efficiency first principle. turning to the hydrogen report, i welcome the strong convergence with our strategy, notably on the role hydrogen can play in decarbonising hard-to-decarbonise sectors like industry, aviation, shipping and heavy-duty transport, and on the need to have ambitious targets for both 2024 and 2030. our priorities are hydrogen produced from renewables, and i am glad to see that we are in line with parliament. however, we recognise the role that low—carbon hydrogen can play in a transition period. the parliament’s report encourages us to go ahead in designing the rules for a truly european hydrogen market, which we will do through a revision of the renewable energy directive and the hydrogen and gas markets decarbonisation initiative. i would like to stress two other important points made in the report: the role of investment and the role of the transport network as enablers. your report has some concrete proposals, which will be helpful in our ongoing work and our evaluation of national recovery plans. the infrastructure network is another key enabler. we need to design a european backbone, building on the gas network that already exists. last year, in our ten-year proposal, we included a dedicated hydrogen infrastructure category and the possibility of supporting large-scale electrolysers. we also included the repurposing of existing pipelines, especially at transmission level for exclusive hydrogen use. we count on the support of the european parliament to preserve this important part of our proposal and to help conclude negotiations this year. finally, let me say that while the focus is on building a hydrogen ecosystem in europe, we need to consider the international dimension as well. last, but not least, i agree with the strong need to continue this research and innovation with our proposal for the clean hydrogen partnership. we want to ensure that europe remains the world leader in hydrogen technologies. i could stress many other points, but i’ll stop here. i look forward to engaging with you today ahead of this important discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we need to talk a lot more about hydrogen! hydrogen has huge potential: in industry - especially in energy-intensive industries - as a source of energy, in transport - especially heavy commercial vehicles - in aviation and shipping, and also for heating buildings. let us all work together to harness this enormous potential. of course, a hydrogen economy must first be built. we can't go from zero to 100 right away, but we have to put the right incentives in place now to invest in hydrogen technology and to build the infrastructure to transport that hydrogen. i am thinking in particular of the development of gas networks for transport. if i am talking about hydrogen, then of course the medium to long term objective must be renewable hydrogen. but for a transition period, we also urgently need low-carbon hydrogen. i therefore welcome the fact that the report by mr jens geier, whom i thank for his draft, clearly states that we cannot do without low-carbon hydrogen during the transition period. we as the epp have worked to ensure that the principle of technological neutrality is enshrined in the report. the technological solution should not be dictated by politics, but we must leave it to the companies which are already globally competitive. our electrolysis technology opens up export opportunities, we decarbonize sectors like steelmaking and the chemical industry, and international hydrogen cooperation creates opportunities for our energy supply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. here's our chance to turn the green deal into a real economic engine.
the european commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environment and to improve the quality of life. i may not have a glass globe, but i can say that we are investing in a so-called no-deal scenario: we won't regret it, because investing in hydrogen is good for our economy anyway. there is no alternative to our heavy industries and our heavy transport. at the same time, the hydrogen strategy creates new jobs, strengthens our competitiveness and is good for our currency. this house is calling for hydrogen to be traded in euros on the world market. in this strategy, which i was able to negotiate, we therefore call for europe to play a pioneering role on the world stage. we are not alone. the united kingdom is getting the gas grid ready for transporting hydrogen, japan, australia, saudi arabia and brunei are working together, chile and morocco are emerging as producers, and the united states is waking up. however, no one is better positioned globally than europe. we have an integrated energy market and an existing pipeline network, we can remove and store co2, and our transport is fast and cheap. together we can rapidly increase demand in europe, reduce costs and, as the commissioner has said, establish a hydrogen main chain. this is also good for the north of the netherlands, for our ports and for our industry. we are therefore talking about full support, but we also want to send the signal that there is no need to wait any longer to invest. that is also true of our government in the hague.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, €58.6 million is the amount spent by the gas lobbies to influence european hydrogen policy, according to corporate europe. their intense lobbying is very visible. another telling figure: the hydrogen industry met with european commissioners timmermans, simson, breton, their cabinets and their ceos 163 times between december 2019 and september 2020, compared to 37 meetings with ngos over the same period. it is very unbalanced and this is unfortunately reflected in the strategy proposed by the commission. this is also reflected here in this european parliament. while the hydrogen strategy should rather encourage the massive and coordinated development of hydrogen produced entirely from renewable energy sources, and thus massively and very rapidly develop renewable energy sources in the first place, this parliament is about to adopt a resolution which gives the green light to hydrogen produced from fossil gas and nuclear energy. this is a historic vote. there are climate issues and strong choices we should be making today. experts tell us that we will reach 1.5°c of increase as early as 2034. who do we wish to listen to? the lobbyists, who defend private interests, or the young people, who mobilize for the climate? the fossil fuel industry or the scientists, who are telling us that we are heading for a wall? how can we believe or make people believe that continuing to support and finance fossil fuels, major emitters of greenhouse gases, or nuclear energy, over which we have no control, neither over safety nor over waste, will enable us to meet our climate and environmental commitments? how can we expect this to protect biodiversity, which is essential if we are to avoid new pandemics and combat climate change? the only sustainable solution for decarbonising our industry and for the implementation of a 100% green energy package is green hydrogen, produced from 100% renewable energy. who are we to mortgage the future of future generations if we refuse to do so? we cannot look our children in the eye and tell them that we have done all that we should have done by bending over backwards to the influence and money of the gas and nuclear lobbies. our responsibility to the youth of the planet is immense, let us live up to it.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, hydrogen can play a key strategic role in decarbonising our industrial processes. this energy vector can be used, for example, in the steel industry or to ensure the stability of an electricity grid based on 100% renewable energy. but hydrogen is not a panacea: if left in the wrong hands, its widespread use can be a major green-lighting project for the gas industry. we must be aware that a strategy compatible with our climate objectives can only be based on the development of green hydrogen, i.e. produced by electrolysis of water from renewable electricity. any financial support for another type of hydrogen would lock us into a deadly addiction. renewable energy and water are not endless resources. green hydrogen will therefore remain a limited resource, and its uses must be strictly prioritised through public and democratic planning. its production must not increase the pressure on ecosystems, especially water resources; it must not lead to crazy projects like the inga iii dam in the democratic republic of congo. if developed properly, green hydrogen production can offer a future to abandoned industrial sites. let us seize this opportunity, but beware of the sorcerer's apprentices who want to make hydrogen the new eldorado of green capitalism.
after the greenhouse effect, europe's energy security and security of supply must be maintained, which is why europe needs a comprehensive energy strategy covering all energy technologies. it is welcome and important that the european union has a hydrogen strategy that helps coordinate cooperation between member states. it is also important that the european union carries out and co-finances high-potential hydrogen projects. the development of new technologies, such as hydrogen, is a major challenge for small and medium-sized enterprises, which need european support. after all, it is a question of europe's global competitiveness in developing new technologies. hydrogen can be used to store variable renewable energy with high recovery capacity and to transport it in large volumes, as the capacity of pipelines is 10 times higher than that of cable connections. however, it is important to avoid the use of grass-fed or grey hydrogen, which reduces the competitiveness of green hydrogen and is not in line with longer-term objectives. hydrogen technologies will not solve all energy problems, but if developed wisely, they will provide a significant part of the content of the clean energy portfolio of the future. thank you.
we are faced with a huge sustainability challenge, which my beloved transport sector is also facing. to achieve the ambitions in this area, we, like the transport sector, need a number of ingredients. first of all, we need the right energy mix, with green and blue hydrogen playing a very important role. we also need to ensure that safety standards and infrastructure are in place to encourage the use of hydrogen. only then will companies and entrepreneurs really embrace this. look at the inland vessel harm lenten with its dry bulk hydrogen vessel, or at car manufacturers like volvo and daimler, who are joining forces to develop hydrogen-powered trucks. with these kinds of lots and these ingredients, i think we have the recipe for making hydrogen a success story.
madam president, hydrogen is a central element of our green deal in order to achieve our zero-carbon economy by 2050. it is also important in order to decarbonise our industry. it is not a silver bullet for the decarbonisation of our energy mix, but it is the energy carrier that we have to invest more heavily in. emphasis should be given to hydrogen from renewable sources and that additional renewable energy demand from hydrogen will have to be taken into account in the future deployment of clean power generation capacity. however, the role that low-carbon hydrogen will have in the initial phase to scale-up production is important in order finally to increase the percentage of the production of greek hydrogen until we are able to cover our needs with 100% green hydrogen. in this regard, we have to take on board all the appropriate technologies, including carbon capture and storage (ccs) and carbon capture and utilisation (ccu), and at the same time we have to provide security to our citizens by addressing their concerns with responsibility. finally, as a member of the european parliament coming from greece, i would like to ask all colleagues to support amendment 26 underlining that we have to ramp up hydrogen production in less connected regions like isolated islands or regions in transition, such as western macedonia, while ensuring the development of related infrastructure, including repurposing and retrofitting the existing infrastructure.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you so much to the honourable members for a great discussion. your report is balanced and a timely contribution that allows us to finalise our proposals. it will allow us to integrate your input as we proceed in the finalisation of the fit for 55 package. let me insist on one important point: these two strategies are important milestones on our path towards a climate-neutral society because they point to different ways in which we can achieve this objective in a cost-effective way. we must design a clean energy transition that is balanced, affordable and compatible with our competitiveness objectives. these two strategies show that this is feasible. on the one hand, an integrated energy system will reap the benefits of circularity, greater efficiency, more electrification and more renewable fuels as a part of the net zero vision. on the other hand, the hydrogen strategy shows a clear path towards decarbonising sectors difficult to electrify and at the same time strengthening those sectors, create jobs and ensure growth in the post-covid recovery. this is what we mean by saying that the green deal is a growth strategy for europe and a strategy that works for all – the north, south, east and west of europe. i’m happy that your report agrees with our emphasis on hydrogen as an opportunity to collaborate with countries in our neighbourhood, promoting their economic and energy diversification and developing alternative export opportunities to those that come from the fossil fuel sector. the two strategies set out challenging but achievable targets and objectives and i truly believe that together we can take up these challenges and make europe a cleaner place and a global leader in clean energy technologies.
in writing. hydrogen produced from renewable sources is of great importance for achieving climate neutrality. it has a high potential to facilitate the decarbonisation of difficult to decarbonise and energy-intensive industrial sectors such as the steel sector. the european hydrogen strategy envisages various uses of hydrogen (e.g. as a green fuel for heavy-duty transport, for which current battery technologies are impractical). unfortunately, the text of the report deviates significantly from the path chosen by the commission in its communication and proposes solutions that do not correspond to the actual pace of technological development or market realities. that is why i have tabled amendments in the plenary, which first of all reinforce the principle of technological neutrality. secondly, they request that low-carbon hydrogen production technologies (such as ccs-based blue hydrogen) be developed and publicly supported. in addition, the amendments emphasise the importance of developing various zero-emission hydrogen production technologies, even those based on natural gas, such as pyrolysis. fourthly, the amendments propose that plants that currently produce high-emission hydrogen (the so-called grey = that is, practically all of polish hydrogen production, and we are the 3rd in europe) should not be closed, but receive the support needed for modernization towards low- and zero-emission technologies. it is important that imported low-emission hydrogen is covered by the certification process so that imported hydrogen meets similar high environmental standards as that produced in the eu.
rapporteur. – madam president, the just transition fund (jtf) is the first legislative proposal implementing the european green deal. the european green deal is a project of eur one trillion. it is europe’s ambition to become the first climate neutral continent by 2050. this is a top priority for our continent. i am, therefore, deeply honoured and proud to be appointed as the rapporteur for the just transition fund for the european parliament. jtf is a key tool to ensure that the transition towards a climate neutral economy happens in a fair way, leaving no one behind. if we add together the funds from the just transition fund, investeu and the european investment bank, we will mobilise through the just transition mechanism more than eur 100 billion. the just transition fund is for the european union to lead the way for the implementation of the paris agreement adopting a fair and just green transition. without just transition fund intervention, regions could not make it on their own. they require investment for structural changes in energy support, supply and demand. countries can spend their own jtf money in areas such as clean energy, training workers and assistance for job seekers, but they cannot spend jtf money to support any investment linked to fossil fuel, including natural gas. in december 2020 a political agreement was reached. the european commission announced the main elements of the compromise: the budgetary commitment for 2021—23, the voluntary transfers from the european regional and development fund and european social fund plus in a voluntary base, the broadening of the scope to address the social aspect of the transition, the exclusion of fossil fuel financing, the reward mechanism linked to the reduction of greenhouse gas emission, and not to forget the islands and the outermost regions which should be taken into account by the member states. the green deal and its social aspect, the just transition fund, are the best examples that can inspire the whole world for the paris agreement and climate change. i have to address special thanks to the shadow rapporteurs of all parties, to the committee on regional development (regi) chair, the regi coordinators and the regi secretariat, to all colleagues and committees involved in the subject, to my apas and my team. special thanks to commissioner ferreira and the german presidency for their goodwill and cooperation. and, of course, to the founder of the jtf, our colleague jerzy buzek. their contribution, support, advice assistance and cooperation was invaluable. thank you once more for your attention and for your cooperation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, this week is a very important week for the european parliament and for the people of europe because we are going to give the final vote on the creation of the just transition fund. the message is clear: the people, the enterprises and the regions that will have to adapt most in the transition to the green economy will receive the most support from the european union. as rapporteur of the opinion for the committee on budgets, i can proudly say that we have initiated, and succeeded in, coupling the structural funds with the just transition fund financing only on a voluntary basis. we rejected the initial proposal of the european commission, which said that, if you want to access one euro from the just transition fund, you have to bring eur 1.50 from your own structural funds. we rejected that because we have new objectives – ambitious objectives – in the transition towards the green economy and, if we have new objectives, we also need to provide adequate new funding, and this is what is happening now. we have new ambitious objectives in the transition to the green economy and we are providing new help for the people of europe.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what a pleasure to see this fund come back even fairer, more inclusive and above all, without gas. the fund will not be limited to supporting workers in their change of job; it will accompany all the people from these territories in conversion. it will support training activities and social infrastructure, and will have a comprehensive approach to contribute to a genuine transformation of society, through regional transition action plans that can be developed in partnership with all actors and in global consultation. i have no doubt that this just transition fund will make a positive contribution to the transformation of our regions and territories in transition. i hope it will inspire other devices. if we are to succeed in tackling climate change, we will have to increase the number of tools that can reconcile climate change, employment and social issues. i am happy to see this matter returned to parliament today.
madam president, as part of the green deal for europe, the just transition fund aims to support climate neutrality by avoiding the social disasters linked to the energy transition in the regions that emit the most co2, especially those that exploit coal. as france is one of the most decarbonised economies in the european union thanks to nuclear energy, the number of projects eligible for the just transition fund will probably be very limited in france. this will worsen our net contributor status and further contribute to the incoherence and potential injustice of european energy policy. how will you explain to the workers of upper silesia or picardy that you are encouraging deindustrialization by closing their polluting factories, in place of which you will plant wind turbine masts? you risk losing the economic and social battle by depriving them of their jobs, and you will be ruining their environment, without providing a real sustainable solution, wind power being certainly one of the biggest energy and ecological scams. european regulations prohibit the financing of nuclear power, which could have been one of the assets on the path to climate neutrality. states are largely left behind in the face of the colossal goal of a decarbonised economy, which the just transition fund will have difficulty in supporting. moreover, what guarantee do we have that the use of this fund will not interfere with the allocation of other funds such as the erdf or the esf? the complementarity between the cohesion policy funds and the just transition fund is questionable. after the departure of the uk, a net contributor, and after the covid crisis that is plunging all european budgets, forcing the orientation of european economies towards climate neutrality, imagining meager palliatives to unemployment rather than real ecological and economic solutions, does not seem sustainable.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, if this report had only one message, it would be that the mobility of workers must be part of our social agenda. today, the situation is clear: we are in a single market, but freedom of movement for workers still does not go hand in hand with the portability of rights, the recognition of diplomas and qualifications, or the fight against social dumping. today, the pandemic crisis with restrictions on our travels shows that the mobility of workers is essential to us. we must be the defenders and promoters of mobility and free movement in the european union, but not just any mobility: a mobility that is regulated and based on fair competition. the report also proposes practical ways of doing this. the new european labour authority must have a clear mandate to ensure the implementation of european legislation on freedom of movement. let us give it the power to carry out inspections on its own initiative, particularly in cross-border cases. after the reform of the posting of workers, we need a second act. let us create a european framework to combat unfair competition. in the same place, equal work and equal pay must go hand in hand with equal labour costs. finally, we need a single european and digital social security number to facilitate mobility and thus ensure the portability of all workers' rights.
madam president, today is the opening of the trial of terra fecundis. this company, based in spain, sent thousands of workers to pick fruits and vegetables in the south of france. she's on trial today for undercover work. this is the largest case of social security fraud ever tried in france. this fraud is a loss of €110 million for the french social security system. this was possible because the european directive on the posting of workers allows temporary agency companies to send workers based in spain to france, while paying spanish employers' social contributions, which are 40% lower than french employers' social contributions. this system empties the public coffers of the states and creates social dumping. that is why we propose to repeal the directive on posted workers to ensure that posted workers are fully treated in the same way as the country in which they work, including contributions. equal work, equal pay and equal social contributions.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the impact of climate change on vulnerable populations is much more complex than it seems. and yet, it is a major and complex issue because the impact of climate change can take the form of a natural disaster - a cyclone, mudslide or fire - an event that is then experienced and for which a humanitarian response is provided. but it can also take on the insidious habit of a territory that is gradually becoming desert or of the sea level rising gradually. the subject is also complex because when we talk about vulnerable populations, we immediately think of africa, asia, the small island states of the pacific, but not necessarily latin america, the arctic populations or the vulnerable populations of our own european territory. more complex, because the link between climate change and cascading consequences such as famine, economic crises and conflict is the more difficult to make over time. yet experts agree that climate change is linked to most of the major conflicts affecting the world today. it is always complex, because from our european perspective, the slightest hint of situations that could lead to displacement of population, even if they are local, generates fear of the migrant at the gates of europe, who will of course arrive without the label "attention, i am a climate displaced person". in this context, there is urgency at all stages of this process, which is expected to affect 200 million people by 2050: urgency to reduce our emissions, urgency to anticipate the consequences of climate change, to adapt territories in particular, and also urgency to recognize the status of climate displaced persons and to move towards a common terminology at international level. the european union has a responsibility and must act within the framework of the green deal for europe and all its variations. i shall of course vote in favour of this report, madam rapporteur.
for the greens/efa group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this report, which is moving in the right direction. climate change is hitting developing countries hard, who are at the forefront of the climate crisis. the news provides us with an example: the great southern region of madagascar is currently experiencing its worst drought in 40 years. according to the united nations, more than one million people in the south of the country are on the brink of famine. in some districts of the region, more than one in four children suffer from acute malnutrition. the frequency and duration of these extreme weather events are likely to increase and to pose a greater threat to developing countries, such as yemen, madagascar and sri lanka, which are least responsible for the climate crisis. so how do you deal with this injustice? priority must be given to adaptation measures, which are still largely underfunded in these countries: europe has not fulfilled its commitments made ten years ago at cop 15. this is why new and additional climate finance in the form of grants is needed. the european commission's new adaptation strategy is an opportunity to make more ambitious commitments. action is therefore needed on the debt of developing countries, for example by taking debt relief and deletion measures. half measures are not enough. beyond funding, strong measures are needed to protect the rights and lands of indigenous peoples, the leading advocates for climate and biodiversity. protect climate displaced people, including through the recognition of climate migration as a legal basis for asylum and humanitarian visas. this is particularly important for our group: without a legal basis and clear criteria, we will not be able to fully protect displaced persons. we need to support smallholder agriculture, pastoralism and the transition to agroecology, support the resilience of coastal and ocean communities by stopping overfishing in developing countries' waters, and fundamentally reform our free trade agreements, in particular the eu-mercosur agreement and its devastating consequences in terms of deforestation, social impacts and human rights.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam vice-president, madam commissioner, i am pleased to have you here with us for this plenary session, which we hope will be the last before we return to strasbourg, where we will also have the pleasure of welcoming you. i am also pleased to be a member of the european parliament at a pivotal moment in the union's history. with this new industrial strategy, the european union is showing that it is no longer afraid to speak out about the need to improve our resilience, post-crisis recovery and competitiveness. it shows that it has grasped the gigantic challenges that the world is about to face. however, it is one thing to put words to common challenges, but quite another to decide to act together. i therefore regret that this communication is not more offensive and does not propose ambitious reforms of structural policies, such as the competition rules, which date back to 1997. the world has changed since 1997. our companies are fighting in a global, global marketplace. they're on the front lines. we must give them the shield and the sword that will enable them to advance again. we've wasted enough time. let us act quickly on these competition rules, and not just on foreign subsidies, although this is of course in the right direction, but it is only a small part. we should not be afraid to talk about strategic autonomy. strategic autonomy is a joint project of global pre-eminence and technological vanguard in areas that are ultimately at the very foundation of the european project: the security, health and prosperity of all european citizens.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner vestager for being with us today. the work which the commission has begun to set in motion is certainly a start on a subject on which, unfortunately, we are lagging behind: it's a drop in the bucket. it took a devastating pandemic to make us realize that there was something wrong with the european industrial system, that the model of economic and industrial development that we have chosen and carried out over the last 25 to 30 years has made this continent a giant with feet of clay. the pandemic has taught us that our supply chain is almost totally dependent on china, a country that presents many criticisms when we talk about bilateral relations between the eu and china. we realized, faced with a very difficult start to a vaccine campaign, that europe, over the years, had not been able to create an integrated and autonomous industry for vaccine production. so, the analysis is good, but we must understand how to make europe independent, how to make our continent strategically autonomous and how to protect our companies against unfair competition and against attacks which we cannot sustain and which weaken us. from this point of view, the rebalancing of our relations and our dependence on certain countries is a fundamental point. there is much to be done and much to strive for, but above all, when it comes to protecting and safeguarding european interests and industry against unfair competition from outside, the term 'protectionism' must not be a taboo, it must not be something that is seen negatively, but it must be seen as a tool that can be used to benefit our independence and to make european industry stronger. we must be free and proud to protect and defend our businesses. otherwise, with a lax attitude, our continent will drift further and further away like its industrial system.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, industry accounts for 40% of our greenhouse gas emissions: to start its transition is therefore more than urgent, it is very urgent. this requires an ambitious and precise sector-by-sector strategy, one that is in line with the emission reduction targets set by the european union. this is not the case at all in the strategy presented by the commission, which sounds hollow, listing measures already planned and proposing to add new evaluation reports to evaluation reports: it does not live up to the challenges. the most worrying thing is that strategy seems to be left to the companies themselves. the commission has chosen to increase what it calls industrial alliances, forums of sorts organised by the industry itself to advise the commission in various fields such as hydrogen or batteries. in fact, it's very simple and it's terrible: it's another abdication of politics. of course, we have to make the transition with the companies and industries; but the strategy must not be developed by the industry and for the industry. it is up to policy makers to set the trajectory in the public interest and in the light of the climate emergency, especially since the commission has a clear mandate: to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 and to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. so she should act accordingly. let us now set binding emission reduction trajectories that are consistent with these objectives. let's focus on the massive deployment of renewables and innovative solutions. we must stop sticking to the energy of the past, such as gas and nuclear power: even the international energy agency, which cannot be described as being green-leftist, is now calling for this. seventy years ago, the european coal and steel community, the ecsc, was created. it was a great idea to pool the key resources of the time to build a collective and peaceful future. today, this project should inspire us: let us invest together and massively in what guarantees our sustainable future: renewable energy and energy efficiency. let us create a post-carbon european community, a cepca, with a systemic approach, rather than multiplying industrial alliances developed in silos and without overall coherence. this would be an ambitious policy framework for the european union, the only sustainable strategy that creates jobs for our industries.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ecological emergency is biting at our necks. we must urgently move away from unsustainable production, consumption and trade; but this bifurcation will not be possible without a strong industrial base. for example, a steel industry, turbines and advanced equipment are needed to reach 100% renewable energy quickly. we need workers with high technical skills, in stable and dignified jobs, not a precarious cohort subject to the vagaries of the market and social dumping. how can we accept that the tyre manufacturer bridgestone is closing its site in béthune, france, cutting 863 jobs after receiving more than €24 million in european funds? that is one of the tragic consequences of your fetish for free and unbiased competition. you want some more? not enough masks at the beginning of the health crisis, not enough medication for intensive care, not enough respirators, not enough vaccines. that's enough! when are you going to learn from what we're going through? when will you break with the dogmas that make us addicted, so that we can finally face the next crisis that is coming?
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the franco-german project for a european cloud launched in june 2020, called gaïa-x, has been hijacked by foreign digital giants, stripping the project's objective of independence of all substance. this example should alert us to the weaknesses of the union in areas which have now become strategic. this failure to act actually reveals a lack of clear political will to establish european industrial sovereignty in several key areas, such as semiconductors and batteries. the opposite views on the subject between commissioners vestager and breton contribute to this situation. the text now refers to open strategic autonomy. these antinomian terms do not bode well, whereas alliances between europeans should be favoured, rather than taking the risk of diversifying our imports. promoting our strategic industrial capacities and protecting our commercial interests against unfair competition must be the european executive's sole compass. we warn the european union against any delay which we would no longer be able to make up and which would accentuate our dependence and decline. let us not forget that the recovery in europe will also depend on the attention paid to the industrial sectors to be protected.
madam president, commissioner, minister santos, lethality, mortality in the central mediterranean is increasing. we are talking about more than 700 dead, when there are not so many people who are moving now, and on april 22nd last - and that is why we are here - some 130 people in two barges drowned, and it could have been avoided because it was known that they were drifting. this tragedy hasn't even been over for a month. there is no rescue capacity in the central mediterranean sea by the authorities. the emergency coordination centre on the ground is doing its job, but it's not working properly. and we've seen commercial ships and ngos doing what institutions should be doing, and no one seems to be embarrassed, because the media spotlight is no longer there. you can't even hear the pope anymore. it takes a lot of imagination and a lot of will to believe that the libyan coast guard is seriously preventing deaths. so let's talk about the serious stuff. the council continues to avoid its common responsibility, and especially with regard to the southern european border. without a model of asylum and refuge, without a model of legal migration, the seams of the european union are being ripped apart. and it's not just a humanitarian issue anymore, it's also a strategic issue. one fact: morocco is playing with spain and the whole of the european union by allowing yesterday, in a single day, more than six thousand people to swim to ceuta, in an organized manner. this means a new humanitarian crisis and a social bomb in a small town of 85,000 people. it is a sum and it continues, because that is a weakness of the union that third countries already know about. a common asylum model, a common european action, is urgently needed. we must avoid blackmail and we must send an urgent mission to ceuta. we need the help of the european union now!
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, four: that is the number of debates in plenary since the beginning of this parliamentary term on the situation in the mediterranean. four debates, that's more than seven hours of speech. during that time, more than 3,400 women, children and men died in the mediterranean. the finding is always the same. at sea, the dead pile up and the political leaders don't even hear their agony anymore; they look elsewhere. how long are we going to debate this instead of making the decisions that are necessary to save lives? how long are we going to let frontex abandon vessels in great distress or worse, hand over the libyan coastguard? how long are we going to believe that the migration pact presented by the european commission will bring the necessary solutions, when it is a bargain pact that is largely unworkable and heavily inspired by the positions of orbán and his associates? europe is acting as an ostrich, europe is complicit and, worse, it is criminalising those who help the exiles. europe has become cynical. madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let us take up our responsibilities now, right now. let's create a european rescue mission and get our humanity back.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu has the right to be a promoter of human rights. unfortunately, we are seeing the opposite in refugee policy. illegal pushbacks at the eu's external borders, a shoddy eu-turkey refugee deal with an autocrat, and so-called return agreements with countries that are anything but safe, such as afghanistan. in terms of refugee policy, the eu is increasingly proving to be a law-free area at its external borders. it is no longer a question of the rule of law, but of the denial of rights to refugees. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the director, mr leggeri, has to resign. the commission is invited to establish an independent and transparent monitoring mechanism for frontex. we also need an independent mechanism to monitor human rights violations at the eu's external borders, otherwise the eu will lose its credibility as a human rights defender!
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, if there is one area where progress is extremely slow, it is migration; however, not everything needs to be reinvented in this area. the principles of human rights, applicable both within and outside our union, are well known. they are also enshrined in the founding texts of the european union and in the international conventions dealing with the subject. principles are one thing, respect is another. it is even more difficult to control the way in which these principles are applied. the rapporteur has referred to this, mentioning in particular informal agreements, which are a headache for the european parliament, which is therefore limited in its monitoring role. the same applies to the judiciary, which is called upon to decide when it receives complaints in this respect. thus, there is a number of indications that cast doubt on frontex's compliance with these principles. international maritime law does not provide for any mitigating circumstances to be used to discharge the rescue duty whenever it is possible to rescue persons in danger of drowning. i hope that this report will be supported by a majority and will help to put an end to the selfish and irresponsible actions of certain member states, which are doing everything to prevent us from exercising our monitoring function.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur, tineke strik, on her excellent work. the outsourcing of migration policy by the european union and its member states is a disgrace. we are entrusting the tunisian or libyan coastguards with the task of stopping migrants leaving their coasts, while they are fleeing because of poverty and inhuman treatment. we have largely redirected funds and policies dedicated to the development of third countries towards this migration management by our partners. we are even now using military means to support its work - i am talking about operation irini, the frontex agency and the southern neighbours in the mediterranean. this guilty subcontracting must stop. this report is a good start: it puts human dignity back at the centre and reminds the union of its responsibilities. some conservatives, to weaken this relationship, sought to make an alliance with the right-wing identity at the last minute. i want to denounce here this highly dangerous and irresponsible political shift. this parliament must not give in to this reactionary populism; this parliament must reaffirm the right of migrants, wherever they come from.
mr president, as we look at the present situation in turkey, i should like to turn for a moment to its past. let me quote the great turkish writer orhan pamuk, who was prosecuted in his country for saying this simple sentence: 30,000 kurds and a million armenians were murdered in turkey. other we know that the genocide of the armenians in 1915 is one of the most appalling tragedies of the 20th century. lawyer serge klarsfeld, who has devoted his life to tracking down the executioners of nazism, has said that without the armenian genocide, the holocaust would not have happened. the past is the past, but we must know how to name the woes of the world. recently, the president of the united states followed the lead of our parliament in recognizing the genocide of the armenians. our parliament has already asked the turkish authorities to come out of denial. we must repeat that request. as the french philosopher paul ricœur said: 'i join my voice to those who insist that justice be done to the armenian people and that the genocide committed against them be publicly acknowledged. other
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this european union will therefore never learn the lessons of past history or those of the past. the report on turkey which is likely to be voted on this week is at best an admission of impotence, at worst a complete cowardice. the rapporteur says that mr erdoğan has to stand by his word: all the abuses of his autocratic regime are mentioned in the text submitted for our vote, but the report stubbornly refuses to name the causes and, more importantly, to draw the consequences. the first of these is islamism and the legacy of ottoman occupation, which ankara has used as a flag to silence any opposition and which is used by the turkish diaspora in europe as a lever on diplomacy in the old continent. the second is the inherent weakness of this european union, which, as a self-proclaimed soft power, is paid for with words but never dares to act. the consequences of turkey's attitude are simple: the accession negotiations are stopped and the accompanying appropriations are withdrawn. the report does not, of course, envisage this solution and proposes that the money paid should be to civil society. what guilty naivete! the european union is only sympathetic to turkey's display of strength and is thus demonstrating to the world the impotence of its model.
madam president, once again, this conflict which seems insoluble in the middle east is burning before our helpless eyes. better days seemed possible, thanks in part to donald trump's efforts to bring some form of stability to that part of the world. let us remember that there is no solution without a universal recognition of israel's right to live in peace and security. there is no solution without the acceptance of the existence of two sovereign states, neighbouring but each sovereign. we must also act in the face of a more direct and serious threat. the demonstrations in recent days in several european capitals, supposedly in support of palestine, are a signal that a conflict that is not ours and has no place on european territory is being imported. all too often presented as pro-palestinian, these movements are in fact anti-zionist demonstrations which openly express anti-semitic positions. this is unacceptable and the left-wing islamist parties that support them bear a heavy responsibility for the worrying rise in anti-semitic acts. because of our tragic history, we must fight this new anti-semitism with the utmost firmness and without any hesitation, ever.
madam president, during the debate, we will hear demands to stop the bombardment of civil areas, cease forced evictions, and for an end to the apartheid regime that israel operates. but, frankly, the time for strong words is gone. what’s required is determined action by the eu to recognise that this isn’t two powerful opponents in conflict, but actually one military power crushing a nation making a stand for their right, as a sovereign people, to control their own destiny. the european council must stand up for international law and ban the entry of goods produced in the occupied territories by illegal settlers. i call on them to refer israel to the international criminal court. if the eu once again stands by, it buries the viability of a two—state solution and with it any prospect of a fair, peaceful and negotiated settlement. as nelson mandela said, our freedom is incomplete without the freedom of the palestinians. (applause)
madam president, what we heard from the speaker just before me in this european parliament is a bad example, i would say, for this kind of misunderstanding. i would say it’s a misunderstanding that’s happening on purpose. it’s part of doubting the right of israel to exist. it’s part of doubting the right of israel to defend itself. first of all we have to take care of what’s happening in the streets of europe and we are facing anti-semitism these days in the streets of europe and we have to tackle it strongly and we have to encourage member states to tackle it strongly. let me remind you that when my own country, austria, was attacked by terrorists in november last year, israel was the very first state showing solidarity with austria. and i am sure that israel would have done the same with each and every other state which would be based on democracy and rule of law, as israel itself is, and would be attacked from terrorists. so now we stand with solidarity with israel, and we should never forget about the question, who is the aggressor here and who defends itself? and that’s all we have to know in order to put things into the right place.
madam president, if hamas is cowardly for hiding behind civilians, behind children, israel is murderous for killing them. bombing an occupied city is an act of self-defense? killing sixty children is an act of democracy? in our association agreement with israel, in article 2, there is the democratic clause, which we have turned into the hypocritical clause. the solution is in the hands of the united states...: it is not true, much more important than military force are strategic, economic and cultural agreements. so i, frankly, tell you: i'm tired of condemnations, i'm tired of us being scandalized by massacres, i'm tired of all of it. the solution is not a ceasefire until the next time; it is peace, the end of the occupation of more than half a century, the fact that the palestinians, strange as it may seem to some, are also human beings.
madam president, london, new york, madrid... i have to go to the police. everywhere, demonstrations in support of the palestinian people. everywhere except paris, where the french government has banned them. and we've been fighting for over 50 years. in gaza, a grandfather and his granddaughter: "tell me, grandfather, what is freedom and equality?" i don't know, man. i was born, lived and grew up in colonization. your old cousin must know them? he died in the raid last night. but, papy, will i ever know freedom and equality? my mother dreamed it for me, i dreamed it for your parents and today for you; but nothing ever changed. my child, promise me never to let resentment enter and to fight in the hope that soon the world will regain its humanity, reason will prevail, politicians think about the people, the daily violence and humiliation will stop, the apartheid we are experiencing will be recognized, those responsible will be judged, to finally live in peace with the israeli people in two countries, and know that on both sides, there are grandfathers who have the same dream for their granddaughters. other
madam president, the end of the arab-israeli conflict would necessarily impose the end of the palestinian-israeli conflict. it was a common idea yesterday, but the palestinians have not disappeared from gaza, israel and the occupied territories and the first lesson to be learned from this war is that there will never be lasting peace without the creation of a palestine alongside israel. the second lesson is that if israel fails to make peace with the secular fatah, it will have to negotiate with the islamists of hamas. the third is that the palestinians in the west bank, gaza and israel have come very close together and that this is a major political defeat for israel, at a time when its internal divisions are deepening. the fourth lesson of this war is that israel cannot forever rely on its military advantage while tel aviv is within missile range and the iranians have stockpiled weapons on its borders. peace is urgent, and it is urgent for all, and for israel first and foremost.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, well, back on planet earth, i think it's important that we recognize that climate change doesn't affect everyone in the same way, that environmentalists are among those who have been most affected and increasingly victims of murder, kidnapping, torture, gender-based violence, threats, intimidation, harassment. global recognition of the right to a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment is a key step towards protecting these defenders, as is recognition of their role in protecting the fundamental rights and dignity of those most affected by climate change. it is therefore incomprehensible that no action is taken to accept that environmental inequalities are social inequalities, that environmental justice is social justice. and it is much less understandable that the european commission should say that it accepts this report, that it supports it, while at the same time continuing to negotiate with mercosur, where, yes, the multinationals and bolsonaro's agribusiness continue to kill environmental activists and destroy indigenous communities. not only the commission, but also the portuguese presidency. we can't have two weights, two measures. either you support this report or you're siding with bolsonaro.
mr president, environmentalists are being attacked repeatedly in too many countries of the world, and even killed. bernardo caal is the leader of the struggle of the quekchi people against the construction of the renace hydroelectric complex that the spanish company acs, of mr. florentino pérez, is promoting in ancestral lands, without any kind of dialogue with that community. he was arrested in 2018 and sentenced to more than seven years in prison for a crime he did not commit. it has been proven that he was not at the scene of the events of which he is accused. and for this, amnesty international considers him a prisoner of conscience. the european commission assures us that it has provided legal, psychological and transport assistance, but his family is completely unaware of this alleged support. in our amendments we ask the council and the european external action service to explain to this house every year what the union is doing to protect environmentalists and we ask them to stop the double standards. whatever the state in which they are attacked, these environmental defenders deserve the same language and the same measures from the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, disrupting the climate kills, protecting it kills too. julián carrillo in mexico, berta cáceres in honduras, raducu gorcioaia in romania, or rémi fraisse in france: every week, more than three people are killed because they defend the natural commons, their land or simply their rights against the industries that warm the planet, such as total in uganda with mega-pipeline projects, or the exploitations that destroy the world's forests. millions of people are also already displaced or made sick by global warming. let's not look the other way, as if we weren't responsible. to say nothing, to do nothing, is to be an accomplice to these crimes against human rights and the environment. the union can and must protect climate defenders by re-engineering its trade policy, by putting in place an ambitious duty of vigilance but also a rapid reaction mechanism to protect them and effectively combat environmental crime and ecocide, and by fighting hard for the universal right to a healthy environment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, €44 billion: this is the turnover of amazon in 2020 in europe. and how much is the corporate tax? i'm not going anywhere. in other words, in our country, european small traders have paid more taxes on their income than amazon. who to consider that is acceptable, who? this is all the more so, and it should be remembered, that the big multinationals will also benefit from the benefits of the recovery plan that is to transform our continent. and would we continue to exempt these giants, even though they are, in addition, the big winners of the crisis? ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: we will not get the money to pay off the debt by multiplying the letterbox companies, but by creating new own resources. so let's look for money where it is: at google, at amazon, at facebook and at all the multinationals that practice tax optimization. in this way we will restore tax justice. i would like to congratulate the commission, commissioner, on having the courage to come back to the table on this matter.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mr massimiliano smeriglio, but also all the fictitious rapporteurs, as well as all the members of the committee on culture and education for their hard work. today marks an important milestone in a process that, as we will recall, began in 2018 and has accompanied us through a period characterized by a pandemic unprecedented in our recent history. it has particularly affected the cultural and creative sectors. the adoption of the creative europe programme 2021-2027 is therefore an important symbol. similarly, in a growing number of our member states, the cultural and creative sectors will be able to gradually return to physically welcoming their audiences. of course, there is still a long way to go before things return to full normality and these sectors are coming out of this long ordeal very fragile. both cinemas and theatres, museums and heritage sites have suffered a collapse in their revenues, even though their presence, mostly digital, has brought us so much at the height of the health crisis. in this context, i am of course pleased, thanks in particular to you and your efforts, that the budget for the creative europe programme has been increased. at a total of €2.4 billion, this represents a 63% increase on the previous financial framework. is that enough? no, but we must make the best of what we have. the new programme is thus strengthened in its power to support cultural and linguistic diversity and heritage, and in its action to strengthen the competitiveness of the cultural and creative sectors. this is good news for those involved in culture and the audiovisual sector. this programme, which is also the only eu instrument specifically dedicated to culture, will help to rebuild an ecosystem that has been badly affected by the health crisis. of course, the strengthening of the programme goes well beyond the budget. as you know, the programme is a continuation of the previous programme with its three strands: culture, media and the cross-sectoral strand. the sectoral approach will be strengthened by music, books, heritage and architecture. competitiveness and innovation in the sector will also be at the heart of our concerns with the creative innovation labs. 'creative europe' will be involved insofar as it has european added value, the aim being, of course, to promote, through the strength of cooperation and networking, the development and dissemination of good practice, innovation, including artistic and cultural innovation, and solidarity. the principles that will guide our action over the coming years and that reflect your concerns are inclusion, equality, including gender equality, diversity and participation, but also concern for the environment and sustainability in line with the broader objectives of the green deal for europe. i would also like to highlight one of the major new features of the programme: support for the information media. we will support the sector's adaptation to structural and technological changes in order to safeguard media pluralism, quality journalism and media education for citizens. as soon as parliament has adopted the programme, we will act as quickly as possible, in accordance with the interinstitutional rules and in particular the comitology. we want to publish as many calls as possible as soon as possible in the coming weeks, so that we can release the first funds before the end of the year. this first year of implementation of the programme will be difficult and we know that we must do our utmost; but we are working to reduce the effects of this delay and are already working in parallel with the 2022 programme. this is also the meaning of our decision to allocate a maximum of the creative europe budget for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 in order to cope with the emergency. a final word to say that 'creative europe' should be read in the panoply of eu programmes, several of which, notably the 'horizon europe' programme, will benefit the cultural and creative sectors. because one thing is certain: culture has a place and a role to play in the recovery of our economies and societies. this is also the whole point of our action.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the creative europe programme is the instrument that supports the cultural and creative sectors at european level. the 37% increase in the financial allocation for this programme is a good thing. the 2.5 billion euros will help those affected by the pandemic, but the amount - we have to say it - is still insufficient to meet real needs. let's not forget that we asked for the doubling of the amount and we asked for the allocation of a minimum of 2% of the recovery plans for the cultural and creative sector. the s&d group has succeeded in integrating a social dimension into this programme so that people with disabilities, inclusion projects and disadvantaged people can access funding. funding has been increased for media, small cultural operators and event organisers or music content creators. i hereby assure all creators of cultural and creative content in europe, and in particular in romania and alba county, of my support and i propose that we join our efforts to ensure that the european union remains a benchmark in this field.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, after these dark months for culture, the vote on the creative europe programme is a source of hope. it will finally make it possible to launch calls for projects. i really want to thank all my colleagues who have worked on this programme for almost three years. for literary translation, film festivals, subtitling - so important for the dissemination of works -, theatre networks, european capitals of culture, heritage, video game design, for all this and more, creative europe funding will offer artists, creators and authors new perspectives and goals: more inclusion, fairer representation of women, and progress towards greener and more sustainable productions. the creative europe programme is worth €2.2 billion for culture over seven years. this is much better, an increase of 60% compared to the previous period, but still far short of a genuine european cultural policy. we need to go further. as we have been advocating since last september, we must get our member states to devote at least 2% of their recovery plan to culture. we must move towards a european social framework to better protect artists and cultural professions. finally, we must initiate a citizens' dialogue in the conference on the future of europe, for more european competence in cultural policy.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on culture and education on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing 'erasmus+': the union programme for education, training, youth and sport, and repealing regulation (eu) no 1288/2013 (14148/1/2020 - c9-0135/2021 - 2018/0191 (cod)) (rapporteur: milan zver (a915-09/2021)).
the reporter. mr president, dear commissioner gabriel, distinguished colleagues, today is undoubtedly a great day for the friends of the erasmus+ programme. we adopt a legislative resolution giving the green light to the operation of the erasmus+ programme in a new financial perspective. we have achieved an exceptionally high degree of unity or consensus among the political groups, so let me give special thanks to the shadow rapporteurs: petri kammerevert, laurence farreng, simoni baldassarre, selimi yenbou, elżbieti kruk and niyazi kizilyürek. erasmus+ is considered by many to be a success story, or at least one of the flagship programmes in the european union. it also enjoys strong support among the european public, especially judging by opinion polls. i am particularly proud to have been part of this story in recent years as the european parliament's permanent representative for this programme. i should point out that i took over this role from the legendary doris pack, who has done the most in the past in the areas covered by the erasmus+ umbrella programme today. the negotiations with the council were tough. they were concluded in december 2020, after five rounds of negotiations, negotiated for two and a half years, and concluded under the german presidency. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the council and the european commission. and what have we accomplished? we have increased the budget for erasmus+ to €28 billion, twice as much as in the previous financial period. in agreement with the council, we have included all three major new initiatives: european universities, centres of excellence in vocational education and training and discovereu. we've made sure that we're more inclusive, including for older participants and others. we have also increased funding for vocational training, simplified the way the eu programme works and made it more user-friendly. and we have also ensured a greater role for the european parliament, a greater and stronger supervisory role in the implementation of this programme. in short, erasmus+ has taken a major step forward. we have ensured that in the coming period young europeans will be able to socialize even more, exchange experiences, get to know other countries, other languages, other cultures and thus strengthen their european identity. erasmus+ does not only benefit those who participate in it in different ways. it also benefits universities, schools, local communities, society in general. it means some general added value. this was also recognised by the leaders of the member states, who, despite the coronavirus crisis, which severely limited the operation of erasmus+, gave generous support to the programme. let me highlight in particular the difficult conditions in which erasmus has operated in the last months, a year and a half, during the coronavirus crisis. the corona has affected as many as 75% of erasmus students, according to the poll. a total of 36 respondents in the survey said that they had to cancel their study exchange due to the epidemic. however, it should be noted that the member states, as well as the european commission, have responded very well to the situation. they were saving what they could. in recent years, i have come to realise that erasmus+ is one of the few programmes that not only connects young or less young europeans, but also the european public and even policy-makers, and that is good, good for erasmus and good for the future of europe.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is a particularly important and symbolic day for the erasmus family as a whole. i say 'family' because it is a real family in its unwavering collective commitment to the future of generations of europeans. today marks a new impetus for the erasmus+ programme. in almost 35 years, this programme has never been more complete, covering an even wider range of activities and learners, or more ambitious. the budget for the programme has almost doubled compared with its predecessor. it can help us build a more inclusive, greener, and digital future. the new programme not only offers opportunities for learning and exchange, but also puts its full weight on training self-reliant citizens, who are looking for the practical meaning of european integration and who are genuinely curious. i believe that erasmus+ offers a life experience that provokes reflection and critical thinking, that deconstructs prejudices and helps to distinguish what is essential in a digital society. erasmus+ remains a unique programme in its scale, scope and global recognition, covering the 27 eu member states and six associated countries, and accessible to the rest of the world through its international activities. through various partnerships and exchanges, erasmus+ continues to focus on key priorities such as skills and competences development, including digital education and training, and sustainable development. the inclusive dimension, strongly supported by the european parliament, is at the heart of the new programme. the programme will provide better access for the most disadvantaged through specific inclusion measures ranging from financial mechanisms to more targeted communication. the programme remains firmly anchored in our ambition and political agenda, including the european education area, the digital education action plan, the european skills agenda and the youth and sport strategies. it is the cornerstone of the implementation of their flagship actions and initiatives, such as the european universities, the erasmus+ academies for teachers, the centres of excellence for vocational training and learning, and the digital education action plan. if we are able to maintain our ambitions today, it is largely thanks to your commitment. i would therefore like to thank you very warmly, as well as the rapporteur, mr zver, the chairman of the committee on culture and education, mrs verheyen, and all the non-attached rapporteurs and members of the committee on culture and education. i would also like to tell you that thousands of organisations have already submitted their applications following the first call for proposals under the new erasmus+ programme, published on 25 march. many more will follow in this and future calls, and thousands of projects will be funded so that millions of people can benefit from the opportunities offered by the programme and become part of the wider erasmus+ family. this is an exceptional year and we all know the exceptional circumstances; but together, we have designed an agenda that is even stronger than before, more inclusive and greener, and that will be able to meet the challenges and seize the opportunities that digital presents. just to give an example: since 1987, when the erasmus+ programme was set up, 10 million europeans have benefited from it. today, our goal is to give even more opportunities to 10 million more europeans by 2027. i'm counting on you to show that speed and quality are one and the same.
mr president, erasmus is certainly one of the best-known programmes of the european union. at this point, i would like to stress that erasmus is not just for university students. it offers many opportunities for primary, secondary and tertiary school pupils and their teachers. in the long run, this program has one drawback: it cannot satisfy all the applicants. that is why we, as the european parliament, have called for a tripling of its budget. the resulting budgetary compromise , i.e. double , is satisfactory. especially if you actually get up to 12 million participants involved. but i personally see the long-term goal as being that every pupil can participate, and in particular that every future teacher can participate in erasmus. i would like to acknowledge the work of my colleague milan zver, who is the permanent rapporteur for this programme and who led the successful negotiations for this final version of the programme. i particularly appreciate the emphasis on teacher mobility, cooperation between vocational schools, language teaching and an increase in the budget for sport. the erasmus programme also took into account the lesson of covid-19 that there must be more use of virtual mobility. let me touch on one of the nerve points, which is the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the erasmus programme. erasmus allows schools to cooperate with third countries. i therefore call on the commission to take this opportunity to promote cooperation between schools in the european union and the united kingdom. it's our big request. i wish all participants to benefit from this program. i hope that this programme will contribute even more to deepening european cohesion and that erasmus graduates will vote for the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it was a long overdue decision to invest almost twice as much money in erasmus+. and i think we can take some pride in the fact that, despite the fuss and fuss of the member states in the mff negotiations, we have managed to raise twice as much money as before. i think that was a great success. while we hope to soon restore student exchange to its usual quality and duration, better access to programmes for young people as a whole will be created. i think it is important to make it clear that erasmus+ has long been much more than just a programme for students: it includes trainees, and we have, for example, reintroduced individual exchanges of pupils. i think we need to communicate that more strongly and clearly. i am particularly pleased that more and new opportunities for exchange have been opened up for learners in vocational training and further training. in particular, i hope that the european centres of excellence for vocational education and training will develop and test outstanding teaching and learning concepts that can serve as models for vocational education and training across the eu, especially in view of the programme's focus on digitalisation, sustainability, inclusion and participation. smaller organisations such as schools, youth associations and sports clubs will be facilitated to access the programme through smaller partnerships and simplified application procedures. the unique experience of living abroad, which, because of its duration, encourages young people to actively engage with other cultures and ways of thinking and to cope with unfamiliar life situations, remains irreplaceable. i congratulate all of us once again on the continuation of this success story, and i hope that it will continue for a long time.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, i am thinking today of all the young people of europe who, for the last year and a half, have shown solidarity in protecting the most vulnerable and the elderly. good for them. we now owe them concrete commitments for their future and this new 'erasmus+' programme is a very important one. important because with a budget almost doubled, we will be able to open it up more widely, especially to young people in vocational training and apprentices, who will be able to go on long-term mobility. more democratization, with a chapter dedicated to the inclusion achieved by the european parliament, so that people are no longer prevented from leaving because of their social status, their distance from the major urban centres or because they have a disability. there is also a stronger place for teachers from kindergarten to high school, who play a major role in opening up young people to europe and the world, and for sport, which is a powerful factor of inclusion. this programme will be greener, with recognition of environmental issues and better support for environmentally friendly travel. finally, it is an innovative programme with alliances of european universities and centres of excellence for apprentices. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the co-rapporteurs who have done such an excellent and very important job. today, new prospects are finally opening up for you, young people of europe. you're the one who has to deal with it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am delighted to see you, commissioner, i have come to brussels with a mission: to open up and democratise the erasmus programme, making it accessible to as many people as possible and more consistent with our climate objectives. it is therefore with great emotion that i celebrate tonight the imminent adoption of the new erasmus programme for the next seven years. i am delighted to see the result of our work become a piece of legislation that will change the lives of millions of europeans. in the negotiations, i fought for an erasmus that is above all inclusive. erasmus is our greatest success, but it has so far been a success for an elite. this is not just a financial issue, but a real challenge to reach the most remote people. when i meet students from vocational schools, or young people from disadvantaged neighbourhoods or living in rural areas, there is often a lack of knowledge about the opportunities that europe can offer them. to meet the ecological challenge, i fought for a green erasmus. if the erasmus of the past was known as the erasmus of ryanair flights, the erasmus of the future may become the erasmus of the train, when it is possible, where the journey on land will already be a discovery of the countries crossed. finally, i fought for a more ambitious budget to achieve these goals. even though we have not achieved the tripling of the budget requested by parliament, we have obtained a significant increase, which will allow for more inclusion and greening. finally, in the future, i also commit to tripling my efforts for inclusion and greening, alongside the field actors and national agencies.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, sabine verheyen, chair of the committee on culture and education, and the whole of this committee for this report and for highlighting the importance of artificial intelligence in education, culture and the audiovisual sector. the european parliament and the european commission fully recognise the strategic importance of artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies for the union. artificial intelligence is already transforming our lives and will continue to have an increasing impact on the way we learn, work and enjoy our leisure time. however, this change is not without risks. ai technologies are increasingly being used to spread fake news, distort reality, misrepresent data or even marginalise groups of people. it is therefore time to seize the opportunities and meet the challenges. it is time for adaptation and this is precisely where education comes in. education can contribute and add a bridge between technological advances and the training needed to use them safely, effectively and ethically. the digital education action plan exploits the possibilities offered by technologies such as artificial intelligence, virtual reality and robotics. the aim is to extend successful practices and to better understand the implications for ethics, privacy and security. it will propose targeted funding and support measures and act as a catalyst to promote a strategic approach to digital education in the union. through this plan, we are strengthening digital skills and developing guidelines to help our member states support educators, learners, researchers and future innovators, and thus contribute to the development of a successful digital education ecosystem. for example, we will prepare ethical guidelines on artificial intelligence and the use of data in teaching and learning. i should like to tell you that the call for experts to form this group has been launched since 23 april. the idea is that they will start their work next month, i.e. in june, and have a first report by the end of this year. similar guidelines on digital culture and disinformation will also be developed to combat the spread of fake news and disinformation online. awareness-raising is equally important, which is why, after the publication of the guidelines, the commission will support awareness-raising activities for educators and students. at the same time, we are updating the digital skills framework of the action plan, adding artificial intelligence and data-related skills. this framework helps define the skills required for digitally competent citizens in the 21st century. finally, we also support research and innovation in artificial intelligence in education. we have started to explore the use of artificial intelligence and learning analysis in education to support the education system, to respond to skills needs and trends. two online ai services are being developed right now. however, as your report points out, the impact of digital technologies, such as artificial intelligence, goes far beyond the education and training sector. they also have an impact on the cultural and creative sectors and the heritage sector. a clear example is the issue of the control of online streaming services by artificial intelligence, which is mentioned in your report and which generated a lot of interest at a recent online conference on 'diversity and competitiveness of the european music sector', which my services organised with experts from member states and industry representatives. streaming is going to fundamentally change the way music reaches consumers. it can create opportunities to enhance diversity, but it can also favour certain artists, languages or genres over others. it is therefore essential to ensure greater transparency in the use of algorithms by streaming services, and fair financial compensation for creators and rightholders. at the same time, digital technologies, such as artificial intelligence, offer new opportunities to make cultural heritage more accessible to all audiences, and also to preserve cultural content. the crisis has also made it clearer than ever that the link between digitisation, heritage and education needs to be strengthened, as digital opportunities make learning about heritage more accessible. a good example is the europeana platform, which was able to reach almost 50,000 schoolchildren with online courses and new platforms during the pandemic. we are also exploring the relationship between digital technologies and cultural heritage, through the commission's expert group on cultural heritage, which meets in april, to inform member state representatives of the possibilities offered by the application of artificial intelligence to cultural heritage. on the research and innovation side, the new horizon europe project includes a new fully dedicated culture cluster, which will then support culture and the inclusive society and help the fields of culture and cultural heritage to benefit from projects on the economic and social impact of technological applications and digital services linked to the evolution of the sector. finally, technology also has the potential to promote the concept of sustainable cultural tourism. the european expert working group on sustainable cultural tourism, under the open method of coordination and in the context of previous work plans for culture, has published a report which includes the first definition of sustainable cultural tourism, as well as recommendations and guidelines for policy makers. i think we must first of all see how all these elements can really be used in the recommendations in the report, for which i thank you again from the bottom of my heart.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. mr president, commissioner gabriel, artificial intelligence and its applications are becoming more and more widespread in a wide variety of areas of our lives, such as defence. we've witnessed a complete shift of activities from our daily lives to offline, online. the same thing happened in the field of education, which showed a major problem that we need to work on. 42% of the population of the european union does not have basic digital skills. i think that teachers cannot and should not be replaced by machines and programs, at least in the foreseeable future, but we need to invest in their training, in working with artificial intelligence, in interactive teaching. artificial intelligence also plays a role in the spread of fake news. it's important to be able to counter and use it to fight disinformation. i don't think it should be unmonitored and unmanned, because more than once, the use of algorithms by the major social networks and online platforms leads to the downloading, blocking of content, which is pure censorship. and that is a serious point, for which i thank and congratulate the rapporteur. but there's also a very light side, and i admit, i'm impressed, even in this report, when it comes to ai, you managed to bring in your favorite topics like gender propaganda, lgbt and gender, equality, etc. even the poor robots of the future will have to respond to this propaganda, which makes their future pretty bleak, i think, but what we do is the option we live in.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. other mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs sabine verheyen, on her work on this report, and i hope that we can effectively apply the full potential of artificial intelligence in education, culture and audiovisual. as rapporteur for the femm opinion, i believe it is essential that the european union, when regulating artificial intelligence, considers ethical aspects, in particular from a gender perspective. it is also essential to develop strategies to increase the participation of women in digital and in particular artificial intelligence, including through the education system. the audiovisual and cultural sectors can also combat prejudices that associate new technologies with the masculine gender, for example by presenting good examples in the feminine, both in information and fiction. we need everyone, men and women, to succeed in this transformation that we have ahead of us, and we have to succeed.
for the ppe group. mr. chairman, human dignity and the good of humanity must always be at the heart of the development and use of unique ai technology. it has already affected almost every aspect of our lives. it can help us in many situations, and it opens up whole new possibilities. not only does it allow us to tailor learning, which is of huge importance for the future of education systems, it can also influence what information comes to us through social networks, and so it changes our thinking and decision-making. and this is the point where we have to pay special attention to developing critical thinking and digital and media literacy. artificial intelligence must always be based on clear transparency requirements. users should always be aware that they are coming into contact with artificial intelligence and should understand the basic features of its functioning. member states should therefore pay particular attention to the quality of education, not only in schools but in society as a whole, for all age groups. the key is the ethical dimension of artificial intelligence. we must ensure that it does not distort perceptions, disseminate disinformation or manipulate for profit, but that it is directed towards the service of man and his good.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs verheyen, for this very important report. artificial intelligence represents a huge opportunity for european education, culture and audiovisual players. whether it is more interactive learning devices, especially linguistic ones, or the enhancement of our heritage, artificial intelligence opens up many possibilities for our performance and competitiveness. it is therefore essential, as we are asking in this group for this report, to ensure that everyone has equitable and fair access to this digital technology. however, it also requires us to face several challenges: first, the strengthening of the digital skills of europeans and the adequate training of teaching staff; secondly, the structuring of a competitive and attractive cutting-edge research sector for european researchers; finally, the development of an ethical artificial intelligence from the design stage and emblematic of our european values, such as cultural diversity, gender equality or freedom of expression and information. europe has a role to play in meeting these challenges, through its 'horizon europe', 'digital europe' and 'creative europe' programmes. but artificial intelligence also has its dark side: deep fakes, which allow for the manipulation of speech recordings, or the accelerated spread of false information. against these practices, we will have to protect high-risk areas, such as education, and also fight even more strongly against misinformation. we therefore expect a great deal from the draft framework proposed by the commission a few weeks ago.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, how did we come to debate the abolition of patents on vaccines today? that should have been obvious from the start, if you hadn't been serving the interests of the pharmaceutical companies. millions of lives are at stake, and your inaction is killing. two months ago i was already addressing the president of the commission to the european union's vaccine strategy fiasco. it is clear that nothing has changed since then. moreover, neither the president of the commission nor the president of the council has deigned to be one of us, to be present before us to give an account. i understand why they're hiding, because i'd be ashamed if i were them. it's a shame that we've imposed unprecedented restrictions on the freedom of the citizenry, without imposing any rules on the laboratories. shame we let vaccines become private property when they were funded with public money. shame we let the pandemic become a profit machine, with pfizer making $3 billion in profits in the first quarter alone. shame on you for protecting the monopoly of production at all costs and causing the world shortage. shame we favored rich countries, who received 80 times more doses than the poorest. shame we wasted a year, when companies like teva are ready to produce vaccines if we give them the recipe. it is a shame to ignore the call of the un, 100 states, 175 former leaders and nobel prize winners, who, scientists, ngos and even us president joe biden. shame to consider a patent on a vaccine as valuable as an iphone. shame on us for treating health like a market and people's lives like an adjustment variable. it is a shame, in short, that he has become the last defender of the pharmaceutical industry by stubbornly refusing to support the lifting of patents at the wto. i am not saying that the commission should be ashamed of itself, but i am saying that it should be ashamed of itself. stop making fools of us by talking about vaccines as common property, when you're doing everything you can to keep them on the market. we have won the cultural battle against the lies of the lobbies through an unprecedented mobilization of citizens, even though we were the only ones in this parliament to fight that battle. now admit your mistake and finally take responsibility. the abolition of patents must be immediate, unconditional, complete and lasting. the rest of the world is watching you and will not forgive you for another betrayal.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us finally be proud to be europeans! we produce vaccines, we export half of our production, we vaccinate our population, and from the beginning of this crisis, we have devised and funded the mechanisms of act-a and its covax pillar to ensure equitable access to vaccines everywhere in the world. meanwhile, president trump was saying "america first". such an atlas, europe, in solidarity and true to its values, has been leading the global response to the pandemic for the past 15 months. the return of the united states to the multilateral arena was strongly welcomed by all. but there are words and there are deeds. do you really think that a political announcement on the lifting of patents, although a legitimate debate, will respond to the urgency of this crisis? the answer, ladies and gentlemen, is no. what we expect from the united states today is that it will finally export doses, stop blocking the export of raw materials and give doses through covax. this is the real debate! my fellow americans, as we debate patents, there are people all over the world who are waiting for vaccines now, not in two years, not in five years. i therefore call on all member states and g7 countries to share doses through covax. europe is better when it is in action than reacting to announcements. let us boast in all that we do, for we are not to be ashamed, nor ashamed, nor lied to.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just come out of a very difficult phase for the european union on vaccines, which we hope will be over. delays in permits, geopolitical preclusions, secret contracts written in the sand, confused communication that created confusion among citizens. a bad management, which generated a delay even on the certificate to return to travel. president biden's proposal on patent liberalisation and the european commission's, once again, mixed and confused reaction fit into this picture. of course, we all agree that in a pandemic, you can't just think about profits and nobody wants to do big pharma any favors. but this is a proposal that is out of date, because everyone knows that it takes years to renegotiate certain agreements, and it is also demagogic, because everyone can understand that even if we had had the free patents in these months, we would not have solved anything because we have paid above all for a problem of industrial capacity. if this had not been the case, it would have required a large-scale use of licences to enable the rapid production of hundreds of millions of doses, but this has not been the case. but it is also a hypocritical proposal, because the production of this type of new generation vaccines requires skills, technologies, organization and investments that unfortunately - unfortunately! - public institutions alone can no longer fully support. so instead of pursuing demagogic proposals, europe should invest more in research, engage in a constructive dialogue with business to increase its strategic autonomy and be ready in case of new emergencies, perhaps with a european vaccine that has been the real great absentee of these very difficult months.
madam speaker, the very fact that we have to have this debate here in may 2021 is a huge embarrassment. the lack of action on the temporary withdrawal of intellectual property rights protection for covid-19-related vaccines and treatments causes almost 10,000 deaths per day, 414 deaths every hour, and 7 deaths every minute worldwide. the eu, which has proclaimed on various occasions that it wants to save the world, is here unmaskingly lending a hand to the multinational pharmaceutical companies it fears. the old wto and trips mechanisms and instruments never worked and they don't work now. how much more time and death do we need before you understand? our inaction is killing! at the last plenary session, you rejected our proposal to support the relaxation that has been on the wto since october. the same proposal you rejected, the united states is now supporting. so how far have we fallen that we need to be trained by the united states to help the rest of the world? there's no time like the present. better late than later. you have to support the patent liberalisation proposal this time and the european commission has to act.
madam president, finally, we have brought the debate on the lifting of patents to the key question: no longer about legitimacy, but about the effectiveness of the measure and its ability to accelerate the vaccination processes in the countries of the south. i hear they don't have any factories ready to start producing vaccines, and that suspending the patents would have no effect in the short term. who says that? the countries of the south do not see it that way. what if we change the question? the question is not how many factories are already available today, but how many will be ready in a few months or in a year if we suspend patents. what vaccine production capacity will the world lose in the medium term if we don't raise them? that's the question. in this debate, not all voices have the same power to speak. i am shocked to see that the commission has had 140 meetings with the pharmaceutical lobbies and only one with ngos, and that, for example, it has not wanted to receive msf. we have to have the debate on the area of efficiency, okay, but let's listen to everybody.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when we see the pictures from india, it is clear to all of us that we must help, and we must help now! and we need to ramp up vaccine production globally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. it costs those who collect it nothing, but in german we often say: 'what costs nothing is nothing', and in my opinion that is also the case in this case. i've been following the development of biontech's vaccine very closely, and yes, there's eu money going in, german tax money too. but it was above all private venture capital, and i really believe strongly in this: if there had been no protection of intellectual property, we would not have this vaccine today, which is helping us in europe, above all, through the pandemic, helping us out of the pandemic. however, we must discuss openly whether exceptions to intellectual property protection are necessary, and cooperation, licensing - perhaps even compulsory licensing - could be a way forward, but only in cooperation. if a top french chef puts his recipe on the internet, then we're not all top chefs. we need technology transfer and cooperation. that is what needs to happen, and that is why i support vice-president dombrovskis in this path of cooperation. and the americans should cooperate and not get their feet wet with cheap demands. they should finally start exporting on a large scale.
mr president, several members of the commission and of this parliament have defended themselves by saying that we are mass-producing our vaccines and thereby taking our responsibility in the world. while that's true, we also need to look at where those vaccines went. they have been exported to japan, the united kingdom and many other g20 countries. that is the state of affairs. countries have to either produce vaccines themselves or be rich enough to buy vaccines. that must change and that is why it is so important for us to support the abolition of patents. i support covax, but we have to make sure that covax becomes a tool for donations and charity. we need to make sure that countries like africa can use mrna technology to produce vaccines themselves. to do that, we must not only end export bans on vaccines, but also ensure that these countries have the right to produce vaccines themselves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, we must show solidarity with other continents. it is a question of humanity, but it is also in our interest, because we will only be able to defeat the disease when all the people of the world are vaccinated. it is in this context that us president joe biden proposed to remove the patents that protect covid vaccines. in europe, president macron has been quick to follow suit. is that a good solution? i don't think he is. the removal of patents would be pointless because, with the exception of a few countries like india, emerging countries do not have the capacity to produce such sophisticated vaccines. it would also be detrimental to innovation, as it would set a precedent that would undermine legal certainty in relation to intellectual property and discourage investment in health research. innovation must be rewarded, because it is the engine of progress: levelling and communism have never allowed humanity to make sustainable progress. so the real solution is not to remove patents, but to increase our production of vaccines and to cede a large part of it to the states that need it, which we are already doing. it also supports and funds the international covax initiative, which was launched in april 2020 to accelerate the distribution of covid vaccines in emerging countries. concrete action is often better than revolutionary ideas.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? it is both our moral responsibility and our self-interest to vaccinate the world as soon as possible. that is why i welcome any discussion aimed at increasing vaccination. in the short term, however, patent law is not the main problem. to get production up, a huge transfer of knowledge, technology, trained personnel and chemicals is required. it is time to lift all export restrictions. the us, like the eu, must take responsibility for starting to export and contribute vaccines to poorer countries. in the longer term, the biggest challenge is getting the vaccine out and building sustainable logistics chains in the most remote and impoverished parts of the world. it is a massive challenge, where work has only begun but where the eu and covax can make a real difference.
madam president, commissioner, minister, actions count, not just statements. and through its actions, the european union is contributing to the covax system and has already exported as many doses as we have distributed within the european union. so, the waiver of the intellectual property rights agreement at the wto is a thorny issue, which is worth discussing, but which can take time to be examined and especially to reach consensus, while we must act and allow as many people as possible to be vaccinated: act to make the vaccine a global public good, act to lift export bans, act to accelerate technology transfers, act to produce and still produce. it is crucial that the dialogue continues with wto members, with the director-general, to explore all possibilities. but let us not fall into a binary debate that would not respond to the urgency and that, in the end, would not guarantee equitable access to vaccines.
mr president, digital technology is our daily companion. with or without consent, our personal data is the matrix of artificial intelligence. under the great precept of medical advancement, our personal health data is being absorbed. the great imperative of progress is that artificial intelligence should be used in personal care services. under the great precept of progress, we should have cameras with facial recognition in the subways. although this text tends to go towards common sense, by placing the human being at the heart of the decision, this existential principle must not suffer from any exception or regulatory right. let us ask ourselves these questions: does this leap forward imposed by artificial intelligence serve the human being or the managerial logics that serve him? where humans are the epitome of a craft, can artificial intelligence replace knowledge? finally, making our personal data the substantive backbone of artificial intelligence is to dematerialize us. our emotions, our desires, our private lives will no longer be our own. lessons from the pandemic: while digital technology has allowed some to maintain social relationships, what did people do when the outdoor restrictions were relaxed? they met because our uniqueness is that we are social beings first and foremost.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur for the empl committee's opinion, i would like to acknowledge that my proposals concerning ethical ai, the protection of human dignity and rights, but also the overall focus of ai on the service of man and his good, have received clear support. we're increasingly using ai technology in our day-to-day activities. we mostly see them as our everyday helpers. however, there are also areas where even wider use is met with initial mistrust, such as the use of its impact on the labour market. it is undeniable that many jobs will disappear as a result of the use of ai. well, that's always been the case with technological revolutions. our task is to create the conditions for exploiting the potential of ai for creating new jobs and to ensure retraining and lifelong learning so that people do not lose their jobs. i therefore call for clear and adequate communication from the commission and the member states to society, not only by shaping public debate but above all by means of effective measures in education systems and the labour market. only then can we unleash the full potential of this technology without making citizens feel fearful or mistrustful. many are relieved of work activities that are dangerous or strenuous.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this in enriching debate, for your numerous and thought—provoking interventions. artificial intelligence is very versatile and addresses lots of sectors. it presents big benefits, but it may also have drawbacks, and some of those you have mentioned, like fundamental rights, impact on safety and certain black-box artificial intelligence applications are complex and opaque, which can be a challenge. our proposals will have to ensure that high-risk ai systems are designed in a way that is compliant with fundamental rights and safety standards. in europe, algorithms will not be in the hands of software engineers. algorithms will be in the hands of society. compliance with the requirements that have been proposed will minimise the risk of harm and ensure that any possible breaches can be investigated and addressed. let me recall that we are not regulating the technology but its use in certain contexts, and this is a proportionate approach and one that creates a level playing field for european and non-european companies alike. the commission will also come forward with a proposal on liability towards the end of the year. let me conclude by saying once again that i don’t think that there has to be a trade-off in europe between fundamental rights and supporting innovation when we discuss artificial intelligence. the two are compatible and together we can make sure that the balance is right. i will be counting on this house to bring these proposals and reinforce this balance further.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, 19 may 2021. the final vote will take place on thursday 20 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the european union's efforts to deepen the digital single market, which will enhance europe's digital sovereignty and competitiveness, remain a priority and one of the most important challenges ahead. i therefore welcome the proposals in mrs clune's report. i welcome the references to the need for proportionality, subsidiarity and respect for the principles of better law-making. in this context, we also need to provide legal clarity for consumers and businesses we need regulation for the whole internal market. i also think it is very important to promote innovation, which is one of the main themes of the report. new ideas should not be stifled by excessive regulation. i therefore hope that the proposed solutions will help to remove unjustified barriers and to increase the competitiveness of european smes and their ability to compete on a global scale. the use of artificial intelligence in e-commerce can have a great potential for consumer protection, including dual quality of products. i hope that the digital single market will benefit europeans, businesses and the environment. i 'm not .
the next item is the report by mr antonius manders, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the report on the liability of undertakings for environmental damage (2020/2027 (ini)) (a9-0112/2021).
- i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, 20 years ago i was the rapporteur for the environmental liability directive. this directive has not yet been fully transposed into national law by all member states, leading to divergent enforcement of liability legislation. we have drawn up an own-initiative report with a number of recommendations to the european commission and the council which ideally should be incorporated in a regulation to ensure that the rules are fully harmonised and can be enforced in the same way throughout the union. this will create a level playing field for businesses and protect the environment. the first objective of this legislation is to prevent accidents. after all, no one benefits from it if there is damage to be repaired that could have been prevented. we therefore urge the commission, and especially the member states, to review the existing directive, which has basically never worked or has not worked well enough. twenty years ago, no one knew about pfas and genx. the world is not standing still. on the one hand we are talking about artificial intelligence and on the other hand we want to protect the environment with legislation that is 20 years old and is still being rejected by the member states. we started this owninitiative report with 180 different amendments and, with the support of all our colleagues and the coordinators of the various groups, we have succeeded in reaching a unanimous position. i think that is a very good proposal. i would like to thank, among others, the adviser to our group, julia lindemann, and my colleague marijn verhees, who have done a great deal of work. i would like to explain some of the recommendations. the current environmental liability directive has been transposed differently by all member states and its supervision is also very different. we need to get rid of that. we need a fully harmonised legislative proposal to create an internal market which can act as a lever with other countries and lift european industry to a high level. we are therefore expressly in favour of the reciprocity of legislation that we know here, or commissioner reynders' due diligence, being imposed on third countries so that we can export european standards and values to these countries and protect european industry from cheap companies from other countries that overstep the law. furthermore, the existing definitions are unclear. the technology is not at a standstill, which means that the definitions must also be updated. i would also like to draw attention to the access of interested parties to justice. we refer explicitly to the aarhus convention in the proposal because we believe that the rules should be interwoven. it is not possible that we have the aarhus convention on the one hand and do not have access to justice on the other. the commission is also proposing to set up a european task force to help member states implement the future legislation properly, to exchange information on the situation in other countries and to assist member states in properly enforcing the legislation. we are also introducing compulsory insurance for companies in different categories to ensure that the taxpayer does not have to pay for the pollution caused by companies. we also want to introduce chain liability, so that there is no small legal entity that causes damage and then goes bankrupt or cannot be traced and the taxpayer is responsible for the damage. for example, 20 years ago a subsidiary of pfizer was marketing contaminated sugar water. the company had caused a lot of damage which could not be recovered from anyone because it was not clear whether the matter was covered by national or eu law. so did chemours, which dumped pfas and genx in a landfill in italy and then washed its hands in innocence because it had processed so-called waste. this will no longer be possible thanks to chain liability. it is important to us that the directors of large companies who deliberately damage the environment for profit should also be held personally liable. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. the proposal places particular emphasis on prevention. we hope that the commission will translate this proposal into a regulation and that the member states will not only think of the short-term national interest, but also of the interests of our children and grandchildren and of the future of the european union. finally, we believe that the definition of the term 'ecocide' should be left to international organisations and then be taken over by the eu.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mr manders, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on legal affairs (juri) for the excellent work on this important report. thanks also, of course, go to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), and the committee on development (deve) that have provided their opinions on this matter. environmental crime is growing. it causes serious harm to the environment, to human health and law—abiding companies. preventing and remedying environmental damage, but also ensuring that conduct endangering or damaging the environment are criminalised, are both necessary for a greener and more sustainable europe. the environmental crime and environmental liability directives are complementary in that respect, and this is also reflected in your report, which broadly addresses a basic challenge that has been around since human societies first enacted laws – namely what do we do when laws are disregarded and harm is caused? when it comes to europe’s environmental laws, half-hearted enforcement and poor accountability are the weakest links in the chain. in a market economy, much of our prosperity depends on companies. most will comply with our laws, but from experience we all know that some will infringe those laws and cause environmental harm. europe has a number of legal instruments in place to deal with this kind of behaviour. the report focuses on two in particular: the environmental liability directive and the environmental crime directive. it also focuses on a range of related topics. as you know, we are in the process of preparing a revision of the environmental crime directive under the lead of my colleague didier reynders, but our actions do not stop there. we also have a framework for cooperating with national inspectors, police prosecutors and judges, for instance, and under my own lead we will soon start an evaluation of the environmental liability directive. your input into our work is most useful and appreciated, and it is timely. i can assure you that we will consider the european parliament’s report very carefully, and we look forward to continuing constructive cooperation on all the topics covered by the report and to delivering the level of accountability that our citizens and our environment deserve.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, commissioner, in january, after 13 years of legal battle, shell was found liable for damage caused by severe oil spills caused by one of its subsidiaries in nigeria. the oil spill in the niger delta has damaged biodiversity, livelihoods and the health of the people in the region. the multinational was ordered to compensate nigerian farmers. it's historic. things are moving. but 13 years! thirteen years is too long! those responsible for such disasters must be held accountable and adequately punished if we are to prevent them from happening again. the report we are voting on points out the shortcomings of the environmental liability directive. the commission must propose a fundamental reform of this text, broadening its scope and guaranteeing victims effective access to justice. we must make sure that the polluter pays principle is a reality, not a fiction, in europe and elsewhere. the european union has a special responsibility: to prevent our actions and those of our companies from causing environmental damage internationally. future eu legislation on the duty of vigilance is an opportunity to introduce effective accountability mechanisms, so that parent companies are held accountable for the activities of their subsidiaries in countries outside the european union. the european union must make the fight against environmental crime one of its political priorities on the international stage. the international criminal court must be able to prosecute criminal acts which constitute ecocide. the european union has a historic opportunity to be a leader on the international stage, recognising ecocide as crucial to protecting human rights, the environment and biodiversity. (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, commissioner, one in eight deaths in europe can be linked to pollution. this is shown in a 2020 report by the european environment agency. the protection of europe's natural resources and ecosystems is widely recognised as an important factor in the functioning of a healthy economy and society. the european environment agency has placed my country, croatia, among the four member states with the most transparent industrial pollution reporting monitoring system in the european union. the environmental liability of enterprises (eld) regulation forms the basis for national laws, and the fundamental principle of the directive is to ensure that companies, operators or others whose activities have caused environmental damage are held legally and financially liable. across the european union and the world, we have witnessed inexplicable fish deaths, the darkening of lakes and rivers, and marine pollution from industrial accidents or crashes. the chain of responsibility in such cases must be transparent and those responsible must be sanctioned. the eld should be aligned with the legislation on civil liability for company board members who cause environmental damage by irresponsible decisions. the financial consequences of environmental damage for the polluter must be commensurate with the pollution. there are many areas where the directive is unclear, particularly when it comes to biodiversity conservation, and i believe that this is something that needs to be worked on in the future so that it reflects our strategic shift contained in the green plan and the biodiversity strategy.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we will indeed vote on a significant report tomorrow, which will send a strong signal to the european commission that we have no more time to waste and that we expect action now. two important pieces of legislation are on the focus of our report. first, the environmental liability directive and of course the environmental crime directive. the eld, adopted almost 20 years ago, needs to be reviewed to make it fit for purpose again whilst also contributing to the green deal objectives. its scope is at the moment too narrow and does not take into account the latest technological developments. the existing situation prevents a level playing field in the european union and limits the effective protection of the environment. the patchy and very insufficient implementation and enforcement of the existing directive reaffirms that we need to replace it with a fully-harmonised regulation aiming at prevention, risk reduction and underlining the polluter pays principle, and especially that is a high priority for my group, the s&d group. additionally, we need a secondary liability regime for damage to human health and environment. in addition, we also need to look at the environmental crime directive. we need minimum standards on the definition of sanctions, on the characters of effective sanctions, as well as on the uniformity of sanctions in the european union, along with minimum rules for national authorities on the frequency and quality of controls on operators. and finally, the reference for the introduction of the new crime of ecocide is also very important. regarding the potential introduction of a mandatory financial security system, we ask for the commission’s evaluation, with the aim of ensuring that the taxpayers do not bear the cost of environmental damage in case of company insolvency. moreover, we have also introduced the request for assessments of a reversal of burden of proof in relation to exemption from liability. i am happy that our group pushed and streamlined the need to strengthen access to justice for victims, also in view of the need for a dedicated anti-slapp (strategic lawsuit against public participation) legislation. unfortunately, we did not achieve an introduction of collective redress mechanisms for citizens who suffered from environmental damage. this is a commitment that the s&d group will continue to fight for. lastly, the possibility of aligning the eld with civil liability legislation for corporate boards is of great importance for our group, as well as references to corporate due diligence obligations. i want to thank the rapporteur and all colleagues for the good work on this important report and i’m looking forward to the commission’s response.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, unfortunately it is not entirely uncommon to see pictures of polluted dams, lakes and rivers in europe. part of this is due to our own neglect of nature. but what happens when the damage to ecosystems, water, and soil is the result of corporate negligence? who is responsible for this, who is responsible for the pollution caused? the environmental liability directive establishes the 'polluter pays' principle. however, this legislation was adopted more than 15 years ago and its implementation still faces enormous obstacles. there is no harmonised interpretation of terms, for example in relation to environmental damage and operator. difficulties arise from the different practices also with regard to financial guarantees in case of insolvency of companies, etc. the report on corporate environmental liability therefore recommends transforming existing legislation into a harmonised regulation to improve enforcement for the prevention and remediation of environmental damage. it deplores the low levels of detection and prosecution of environmental crimes. we also call for the introduction of mandatory financial and guarantee schemes for the most dangerous activities, so that taxpayers do not bear the cost of environmental damage. we call for support for the victims of environmental damage. we call for modernisation of legislation to ensure more rights and security for businesses, greater clarity and a balance between corporate considerations and environmental protection. improved applicability will not only increase citizens' trust in european rules. it will help to achieve the original objective of preventing and remedying environmental damage on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle. this is also important in view of the european union's future commitments under the green deal.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is normal for companies to be responsible for the damage they cause to the environment. this idea is not new, since it was enshrined in a directive of 21 april 2004. the problem is that some european states have not applied it properly. the manders report is therefore right to note this and to be concerned about it. for example, each state should have kept and published a specific register of incidents. however, of the 27 member states, only seven have a public register, four have a non-public register and the remaining 16 have virtually none. in the face of such a situation, we must choose between two solutions: a reasonable one and a radical one. i'm all for the reasonable solution. it is intended to amend the 2004 directive to clarify it and thus make it easier for member states to apply it. in particular, the concepts of environmental damage and operator damage need to be better defined, as they are too vague and do not allow companies to be assured of the minimum legal certainty to which they are entitled. states should also be asked to strengthen their environmental inspection services, whose resources are often limited and have been reduced in recent years. it is true that the european union bears a large share of responsibility for this decline, since it has not ceased, like a doctor in molière, to prescribe the bleeding of public services in the name of the dogma of ultra-liberal austerity. finally, the text must be reasonable and include financial guarantee mechanisms to avoid the bankruptcy of smes responsible for environmental damage. in these difficult economic times, the protection of our smes must be a priority. the manders report mentions all of this, but in the end it chooses the radical solution of replacing the directive with a regulation which will not take account of national specificities. on the other hand, he proposes to extend the mandate of the european public prosecutor's office to environmental offences, which would transform the system into a punitive ecology, which i do not want. for these two reasons, excessive centralisation and punitive ecology, i refuse to support the manders report.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for more than 50 years, the nations of the world have been committing themselves to: yet we continue to destroy the climate and ecosystems at an unprecedented rate. why would you do that? because the race for profit and the crazy dogma of infinite growth in a finite world continue to define all our policies. we must open our eyes. the relentless pursuit of short-term economic interests is destroying life and endangering humanity's ability to inhabit our planet. the power of money must no longer trump the need to protect the living. that is why the subject which brings us together today, the subject of environmental responsibility, is absolutely crucial. total, shell, bayer-monsanto, bnp paribas and blackrock, to name just a few, have no real obligation to protect the climate and the living or to respect the planetary boundaries. only 100 companies are responsible for 70 percent of greenhouse gas emissions between 1988 and 2015; none of them are held responsible. in guadeloupe and martinique, 90% of the population is contaminated with chlordecone; no responsibility has yet been acknowledged. the first to be affected are always the workers, agricultural workers in guadeloupe and martinique, workers who are still suffering from mine dust or asbestos dust, maids forced to use toxic products. the profits flow into the pockets of companies which are too seldom subject to reparation obligations. so for climate and for justice, today we call for the recognition of the intrinsic value of ecosystems and their right to be protected: a giant step for nature rights in europe. we call for companies to be forced to respect the paris agreement, but also for the crime of ecocide, these serious attacks on the planet that still go unpunished, to be recognised as such, as soon as possible and in european law. the laws of economics are not above the laws of nature. if we want to preserve the climate, the living and our rights, we must fundamentally transform the rules governing environmental responsibility. i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for the work they have done in this respect.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, in recent months, emmanuel macron has become so obsessed with insecurity that he even patrolled in person with the bac. but if he's really looking for criminals, i suggest an address: go to 10, rue adolphe beck in laval, mr. macron; you'll find the headquarters of lactalis, the company responsible for some of the worst environmental crimes. lactalis is this huge group of dairy animals that produces foods that we all know: president butter, babybels and kirys. lactalis, it's also 38 factories in france that have violated environmental law since 2010, poisoned our rivers, destroyed ecosystems and threatened our health. lactalis has a recurring offence every year, but the state gives him a clean bill of health. it has even offered no less than €40 million in public aid over 20 years, as many millions as are offered to shareholders who are sorely lacking in protecting the planet. in the face of the multinational corporations that are destroying the planet and the governments that are allowing them to do so, let's impose new rules. recognition of ecocide and implementation of an environmental duty of vigilance. we can no longer let these crimes go unpunished. let's protect the air we breathe, the water we drink and the soil that feeds us. instead of this profit-driven race that destroys us, let us pursue a different goal: the harmony of human beings with each other and with nature.
i would like to say that the commission has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. i am convinced that in the long run we cannot deviate from the clear montesquieu scheme, which provided for an orderly distribution of power and the composition of the legislative, executive and judicial branches in the construction of democracy, without serious consequences. in particular, the last few decades have seen a tendency to disrupt this pattern, usually to follow some left-wing fashion by giving private institutions, usually so-called ngos, the right to intervene in the normal democratic legal order and grant them privileges that exclude them from the normal course of democracy. i myself, for example, saw my national party being made impossible at the beginning of this century because so-called anti-racism organisations had been given the legal right a few years earlier to take on the role of public prosecutor, to act in place of the public prosecutor and thus to act actively, without further political accountability, as private organisations which hardly represent members or have to meet conditions, yet to act as the guardians of the public interest. today, too, another political trend, particularly environmental, is overturning the legal order by giving ngos a privileged role which they would not normally have. this seems to me to be a bad evolution. the unilateral selling-out of the public interest, and even by an elected parliament, should be stopped rather than encouraged.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, citizens all over europe are using the law to defend the planet, and rightly so. because in the netherlands, with urgenda, in ireland, in france, with the case of the century, and now in germany, the courts have indeed condemned the inaction of their states in the face of climate change. however, at the eu level, 10 families from europe and the world were rejected. what was denied to these plaintiffs in the people's climate case was simply the right to defend their rights to life, health, property, a future and a stable climate before the european courts. the issue is an environmental democracy that has been ignored for too long. today, the union is not even in compliance with the international convention of aarhus which defends the right to information, participation and access to justice in environmental matters. it was time for that to change. let's face it: we are rolling out the green deal for europe to better meet the environmental challenge; but from climate law to the duty of vigilance, what good will this progress do if we don't guarantee access to justice to ensure that these new laws are enforced? the revision of the aarhus regulation is necessary and urgent. we have indeed made progress in the european parliament, despite the reluctance of those who still prefer to defend private interests over the general interest and that of future generations. opposing aid to a nuclear power plant, subsidies and permits for fossil fuel infrastructure, or the approval of dangerous substances such as glyphosate will now be possible. ngos will also be able to take legal action without being discouraged by prohibitive costs, it is equally essential and i answer the commissioner that members of the public must now have access to justice; but to make this access to justice effective, we also need to strengthen transparency and access to information in the union. what i am asking for, with the amendments i have tabled, is that all the environmental studies and assessments carried out by the institutions be made available to the public and put in a common and transparent register, as promised by the commission and in particular by commissioner šefčovič. full transparency of information on gmos, on the one hand, and on pesticides such as neonicotinoids, on the other, and on epidemiological studies and the state of forests, is essential. however, let us be clear: the protection of living beings and environmental rights will require more than a new regulation. we need a new treaty and an environmental treaty that would finally put respect for human rights and planetary boundaries at the top of these standards, a treaty that would give europe a new meaning and a new horizon for our actions.
madam president, commissioner, the majority of the digital systems used in europe are in the hands of the chinese and the americans. we have become vulnerable to spying, data leaks, privacy violations and cyberattacks. the reason for this dangerous digital addiction is obvious. while the countries of the european union believed strongly in neoliberal market policies, foreign governments did everything to strengthen their positions in the digital sector. today, the only way to save our countries' digital sovereignty is to implement ambitious strategies. the european union could play a supporting role in this respect, as proposed with the cybersecurity centre, but it can never replace national action. for example, every french euro should go to french companies, possibly in cooperation with european partners. it's amazing: when we set up a health data hub, the french government offers this market to microsoft. the state must actively support companies by proposing innovation projects with substantial investments, in particular by promoting the french cybersecurity label. at the same time, restrictions on exports and acquisitions must be put in place to stop unfair practices by foreign technology companies. only a change of course could guarantee cybersecurity in europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives of combating tax avoidance and tax evasion have been pursued for several years now in a transnational context. organized fraud knows no land borders. this text is the result of the feedback from the previous fiscalis 2020 programme. improvements had become necessary with regard to notions of likely relevance and information requests for a group of taxpayers. however, the achilles' heel of the system is the unsatisfactory trade with several third countries, including switzerland, which significantly weakens its effectiveness, as fraudulent organisations are aware of the weaknesses of the system and host their front companies in third countries. the second weakness concerns the identification of the beneficial owners of companies, despite the open data of registers set up in recent years. the example of luxembourg and the openlux scandal showed the limits of the system, revealing that a significant number of companies were not complying with their reporting obligations. as a founding member of the union, luxembourg should be exemplary in its behaviour in the face of tax avoidance. the commission must tackle letterbox companies and introduce unrestricted publicity of the registers of the actual beneficiaries of companies, accompanied by a check of the declarations made. on the other hand, at a time when public deficits are growing, the protection of our public finances must be a priority. the funds collected serve a dual function: increasing tax revenues, which will be needed to finance the recovery, but also asserting the authority of the state in the efficiency of tax collection. it is a strong royal act that creates a link between debtors and the public authorities. finally, i welcome the safeguard introduced in article 25 concerning the breach of personal data, allowing, where appropriate, the suspension of exchanges of information. the text seems to strike a balance between ensuring data protection and seeking the information needed to detect fraudulent installations. despite the fact that this system can be improved, we support this text because of the adoption of a reasonable budget and the imperative objective of combating tax fraud.
madam president, i would like to welcome the commissioner and my colleagues, especially the diehards of the s&d group in that corner. tax authorities in europe live on isolated islands, each of them guarding their own rock. they don’t see that multinationals and multimillionaires escape taxes by sailing in between. fiscalis builds bridges and communication lines across tax authorities to help catch those trying to escape, and i’m glad that this programme can continue for another seven years. i’m also glad to see that the trilogues on fiscalis have resulted in some form of cooperation between council and parliament because the council often thinks on its own too. as i said, cooperation is needed to fix the eu’s tax system so it’s a good step that the council has committed to a regular exchange on lessons learned from fiscalis on what more can be done to join forces. i’m looking forward to this type of cooperation. let it be the first of many steps.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of strengthening programmes to assist member states in combating fraud is certainly a positive one, given the damage that phenomena such as tax evasion cause to countries like italy. i am afraid, however, that it will not be of any use unless it is accompanied by a genuine policy to combat the shameful legalized fraud which the eu itself continues to tolerate within its own borders, namely tax dumping: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unfair competition by certain member states, which offer companies exorbitant fees for fictitiously moving to their territory, acting as tax havens. a fraud that accounts for about 25% of tax evasion worldwide and 90% of that against italy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to take action in this area. yet on this front, which should be a priority, the commission is playing the merchant's ear. commissioner gentiloni, you, for example, responded to my question by promising concrete measures by the end of 2020 and yesterday in this house you announced major steps forward on corporate taxation. but for now, the reality looks very different. the commission has already put forward proposals to restart from scratch and thus guarantee these tax havens at least two more years of peace of mind, when the commission will be running out of time and will no longer have the political strength to act, just as the eu did not have the political strength to act to deny economic aid linked to the covid crisis to those based in european tax havens. what we are seeing, commissioner gentiloni, is a europe that wants to appear to be lion-like, but that, when it comes to fighting real injustice, magically turns into a rabbit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want tax justice! the citizens of europe deserve tax justice. if we want tax justice, we must also ensure that tax authorities have not only the financial but also the technical and, above all, the human resources they need. this is where the european 'fiscalis' programme comes in. the increase in the appropriations for this without imposing additional financial burdens on the national authorities is a success of the european parliament. in a globalised world, there can only be european answers to the pressing issues of our time, and that is why we need a common tax audit, as now enshrined as a priority measure in fiscalis - a development long overdue. we know from all these leaks, tax leaks, panama papers and so on: we need more control, more transparency and, above all, more resources in the fight against tax evasion, tax evasion and money laundering.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the fisheries sector in the community. the commission's proposals are not only a step in the right direction, but also a step in the wrong direction. there are three reasons why fiscalis is so relevant. firstly, the pandemic-related crisis has created major budgetary problems and it is clear that we will need, as soon as conditions permit, more tax revenue. increasing revenue must be done in a fair, honest and productive way. secondly, at the level of large multinational companies, there are opportunities for tax avoidance, or even tax evasion in some cases. the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this is the objective pursued by the fiscalis programme. third, the climate has changed internationally, as the economic and social ordeal associated with the pandemic and the transition to the biden presidency have boosted tax awareness. the issues of concern to us in relation to 'fiscalis' are increasingly referred to international organisations such as the imf and the oecd. with more zeal, more funds for the programme and some strengthening of the institutional controls that concern us, we will be taking steps in the right direction.
member of the commission. – madam president, well i’ve heard this evening a strong awareness on the need to act against tax fraud, evasion, avoidance and to act to have a more effective tax administration. for this we need political will, administrative cooperation and technological upgrade. so the new fiscalis programme is an important step in this direction. and by the way, it also could increase our capacity of collecting taxes, and i recognise the important role played by the parliament to strengthen this programme, also increasing its cooperation with the council. we are vigilant to the respect of the duty to cooperate among member states enshrined in the legislation on administrative cooperation. should we have substantial evidence of a serious breach we would take the necessary steps. and this was also answering to a question from the rapporteur. with this again, i thank you honourable members, rapporteurs and all the members of the committee working for this proposal.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and honourable members for this debate on data protection adequacy. the council believes that the eu must find the best solution to make the transfer of personal data possible to a european economic area third country, territory or international organisation, while at the same time respecting eu legislation and case-law. when the conditions are fulfilled, adequacy decisions should be adopted. this is in line with the european council conclusions of october 2020, in which the heads of state or government welcomed the european strategy for data. this strategy supports the european union’s global digital ambition to build a true european competitive data economy while ensuring values and a high level of data security, data protection and privacy. as you know, the council itself does not take part in the adoption of adequacy decisions, although member states are involved in the comitology procedures. this being said, let’s look at the transfer of personal data to the uk. according to the commission explanations provided in the draft decision, the uk has chosen to keep its data protection framework fully aligned with the eu rules. the uk has strong safeguards in the area of government access to data and therefore provides an equivalent to data protection. these elements are essential, both to safeguard economic activity and to maintain a high level of cooperation with the uk in different sectors, including law—enforcement cooperation. the trade and cooperation agreement (tca) provides for a maximum of six months during which the uk is not to be considered a third country for the purpose of transferring personal data, and, as you know, this period expires at the end of june. after the draft adequacy decisions have been presented by the commission and the european data protection board provides its opinion, the process of adopting the adequacy decisions should be completed in time to make sure that there is a solid legal base for the transfer of personal data with the uk. so, we will continue to support the commission to come up with solutions that at the same time respect the fundamental rights of the union and the tca timeframe. that is essential, both to safeguard economic activity, in particular for smes and startups, and to maintain a high level of cooperation with the uk in different sectors, including law enforcement, as i said, and judicial cooperation. the uk will continue to be a very important partner of the european union in these areas. besides, adequacy decisions are not the end of the story – it is always important to keep an eye on evolution in the third state concerned, and the adequacy decisions provide for such a mechanism, in addition to the well—known sunset clause. this is also an important safeguard as it is important to make sure that the uk maintains a high level of protection of personal data in the future, and, if there are problematic divergences, this will certainly have consequences. now let’s talk about the transfer of personal data to the united states. turning to this point, it is clear that the invalidation of the privacy shield by the european court of justice has important implications, even if the court upheld the validity of the standard contractual clauses. these standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data will soon be updated, and they play an important role by providing additional legal certainty. we are confident that negotiations will intensify, following the joint statement by commissioner reynders and the us secretary of commerce, gina raimondo, of 25 march. the council and the member states are following these negotiations closely on the basis of information provided by the commission and i look forward to hearing commissioner reynders speak on this topic.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss with you all this morning two important draft resolutions of this parliament: a first one on the consequences and lessons of the schrems ii judgment and a second one on the uk draft adequacy decisions. on 16 july last year, the european court of justice invalidated the eu-us privacy shield, concluding that insufficient protections were in place on the us side. the schrems ii ruling is a strong reaffirmation of the fundamental right to data protection under eu law. the court confirmed that protection must travel with data, and that the level of this protection must meet eu standards. in this ruling, the court also provided us with precise requirements that need to be fulfilled when adopting adequacy decisions, such as the ones we have proposed with respect to the uk, and the one we are discussing with the us, in view of a possible successor to the privacy shield. this being said, the two resolutions that we are discussing today concern two situations that are very different. the one concerning the draft uk adequacy decisions is about managing and remedying possible future divergence, since the uk data protection rules are currently aligned with the eu ones. in contrast, the other resolution is about building convergence with important international partners, such as the us, through the development of additional and strong data protection safeguards. complying with eu law standards, including the case-law of the eu court of justice, calls, in particular, for the delicate balance between national security and privacy to be addressed. this is not an easy balance to strike. as the commissioner responsible for both the rule of law and the protection of personal data, it is my responsibility and my personal commitment to ensure full compliance with all the elements of the judgment of our highest court. let me now briefly turn to each of the two resolutions. let me first address the draft adequacy decisions relating to the united kingdom. less than three weeks ago, an overwhelming majority in this plenary voted to approve the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement (tca) by 660 votes in favour. data protection standards were not subject to negotiation with the uk. in fact, the tca provides that transfers of data to be carried out in the context of its implementation will need to take place in compliance with the requirements of the laws of the transferring party (which means, for the eu, the general data protection regulation (gdpr) and the law enforcement directive (led)). in this context, the eu’s interest is that the many transfers that will necessarily take place in application of the tca, in a wide range of areas, from trade to law-enforcement cooperation, will be based on a comprehensive instrument, requiring a high level of protection. such an instrument should also allow us to react if this level of protection is undermined. this is what our draft adequacy decisions provide for. first, they recognise that today the uk system continues to be based on the same rules that were applicable when the uk was a member state of the eu. this is the result of a deliberate choice of the uk legislator, which has decided to fully incorporate the principles, rights and obligations of the gdpr and the law enforcement directive into the british post-brexit legal system. it is difficult to find a system that is more equivalent to ours. in addition, the uk shares with eu member states a number of international commitments in the area of data protection, be it under the european convention on human rights, as interpreted by the european court of human rights, or the specific treaty on data protection of the council of europe. this is particularly important as regards the balance between national security and privacy: it means that also in that area, the uk adheres to the same standards as the eu member states. this is why we have made very clear in our draft decisions that adherence to such international instruments is a central element of an adequacy finding. second, recognising the current alignment between the uk and the eu does not mean that we are naïve or unprepared. we fully share parliament’s concerns on the possible future evolution of the uk system. brexit means that the uk data protection system will be administrated in a fully autonomous way. even very similar rules can be interpreted, applied or enforced differently. the key question is therefore, in our view, whether we can trust the uk not to lower the current level of protection. the commission is aware of the scepticism of a number of members of this parliament towards the uk in this regard. as president von der leyen said of our new relationship with the uk, ‘trust is good, but law is better’. this is why we have significantly reinforced certain important aspects of our approach on adequacy compared to previous decisions concerning other third countries. in particular, our proposed decisions – for the first time – strictly limit the duration of the adequacy findings by including a sunset clause: the decisions will automatically expire four years after their entry into force. if we were to consider that our adequacy findings can be renewed because the uk continues to ensure an adequate level of data protection, this will need to be subject to new decisions. such decisions will have to be adopted following the entire adequacy decision-making process, with an opinion of the european data protection board and a comitology procedure. by including that time limitation, we make clear towards the uk that possible problematic divergences will have consequences. this comes on top of – and does not replace – other mechanisms that we have also reinforced, and that would allow us to react immediately at any time, without waiting for the four year-period to expire if changes are introduced in uk law, or if there are practices that would undermine the level of protection. i am thinking of the suspension and termination mechanisms provided for in our draft decisions, in addition to the sunset clause. following the receipt in april of the opinion of the european data protection board (edpb), which was largely in agreement with the commission’s approach, we have further strengthened these mechanisms by identifying even more clearly in the draft decisions the aspects requiring specific monitoring and for which, in the event of divergence, we would trigger the suspension or termination procedure that we had already provided for in the initial draft. this concerns, for instance, the way the uk will implement its rules on international transfers. more generally, following the edpb’s opinion, we have clarified our decisions on a number of aspects regarding both, firstly, why we consider that today the uk ensures an adequate level of protection, and, secondly, how we intend to react if the situation changes. this includes aspects that i know are particularly important for this parliament, and that are discussed in the draft resolution: from certain possible limitations to some data protection rights for other objectives of public interest, such as immigration control, to the conditions, limitations and safeguards that apply in the event that national security authorities seek access to data. once again, we believe that we can credibly address the uncertainties of the future while recognising that the starting point is an adequate one at this stage. in particular, the sunset clause sends the message to the uk that problematic divergence will have a cost. however, it will only have its intended dissuasive effect if we clearly distinguish, on the one hand, convergence – and its benefits from, on the other hand, divergence – and its risks and consequences. to sum up, based on our assessment, after having taken into account the opinion of the edpb, as well as concerns raised by this parliament and by the member states, the commission is of the view that, as things stand, at this stage, we should go ahead with the adequacy decisions. let me now turn to the second issue of today’s debate. in response to some of the points raised in the second draft resolution, i would like to update you on what the commission is doing following the schrems ii judgment. first, we are finalising the modernisation of standard contractual clauses for international data transfers that fully take into account the requirements of the schrems ii judgment. we are very close to final adoption, which will probably take place in the next weeks, after a successful conclusion of a comitology procedure. as standard contractual clauses are the most-used tool by european companies for their international data transfers, this is a top priority for us. we have revised the clauses on the basis of the feedback received from the european data protection board and the european data protection supervisor. we have also taken into account the input we received from stakeholders during a broad public consultation. the new clauses will provide companies with a practical toolbox to assist them in their compliance efforts. because they are a ready-made tool, they will be particularly useful for smes, which, as is also pointed out in the draft resolution, may have limited resources and expertise. in addition, we will be in consultation with stakeholders to develop a user—friendly practical guide on the basis of questions and answers to further facilitate the use of these new standard contractual clauses. i also fully agree on the importance, stressed in your resolution, of ensuring consistency between the standard contractual clauses and the guidance of the european data protection board on schrems ii, which is currently being finalised after a public consultation. that is why, in revising the draft standard contractual clauses, we have worked very closely with the board to align our approaches and to provide companies with legal certainty. finally, we are also working with the us on a possible successor arrangement to the privacy shield. what is certainly positive is that we see real engagement from the administration of president biden, and a clear willingness to work on possible solutions. this was also reflected in my recent statement with the us secretary of commerce gina raimondo, with whom i have been in contact on a regular basis since she took office. at the same time, we also have to recognise that the issues around access to data for national security purposes that have to be addressed are very complex. as like-minded partners, the eu and the us should be able to find appropriate solutions on fundamental principles, such as access to a court, enforceable individual rights, and safeguards against excessive interferences with privacy. but let me be clear: there are no shortcuts and there will be no quick fix. we will only accept a solution that is fully in line with the requirements of union law, as interpreted by the court of justice. this is a question of compliance with the decision of our highest court. it is also in the mutual interest of the eu and the us that we put in place a solid, sustainable and legally certain transatlantic transfer mechanism. i know i can count on your support and the support of the entire parliament for solutions based on strong safeguards, which can, in that way, facilitate transfers. so i will continue to work and discuss this matter with the us in such a way, and i thank you for your attention this morning on those two very important topics and i am now looking forward to our debate.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the eu, in which it calls on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's data protection legislation is fully complied with. that's why these adequacy decisions are so crucial. they ensure that businesses and law enforcement agencies can exchange data securely with each other within a clear legal framework. earlier this year, in this hemisphere, we welcomed the election of joe biden and kamala harris with applause and our message was to rebuild relations with the united states. we are doing so with a clear hand outstretched to work with the commission on a new, solid framework for the future. but i'm still surprised. three weeks ago, in this very room, in the debate on the trade and cooperation agreement, it was said from all sides that trust is the key to success in our future relations with the united kingdom. it's a waste of words, but three weeks later... in one of the first concrete cases in which we can put this trust into practice, we are not succeeding, on the contrary! the way in which this resolution on the adequacy decision in respect of the united kingdom has been produced is truly beyond imagination. the trust that the uk is able to maintain a high level of data protection - which is, by the way, entirely based on the gdpr - is no longer there. nor do i have any confidence in the expertise and independence of the european commission. the european citizen expects us to take data protection seriously. but it also expects this parliament to show responsibility. that's why i'm calling you: don't pull the emergency brake. do not undermine our cooperation with the british against organized crime, do not keep our companies in a stranglehold any longer.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, portuguese presidency, commissioner reynders, in this joint debate we are discussing two matters which are the responsibility of the committee which i have the honour to chair, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and of which i have been rapporteur. the connection point is fundamental rights: data protection enshrined in article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights. the libe committee has spent many hours since the charter came into force with the lisbon treaty, much time working on approving the world's highest standard data protection regime: the data protection regulation and the directive on data protection in criminal matters. and both have to do with the call to the commission to reconsider that decision on the adequacy of the uk data protection system. we have been discussing the uk's withdrawal agreement for years. and we've also spent a lot of time on a trade and cooperation agreement; not just trade: cooperation, which includes data transfer. but we have expressed legitimate concerns, which have also been reflected in the report of the european data protection board, which have to do with the immigration and security exceptions to the us data protection regime, which is being applied even to citizens of the european union who are trying to reside or settle in the united kingdom. and of course, with the transfer of data to the united states, which is the second issue we're dealing with. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the right to privacy is not a fundamental right of the union, but a fundamental right of the union. this means that transferring data to the united states, which is a common practice in the united kingdom, is incompatible with the standard of protection under european law. and this means that not only the uk legislation but also the practices of its application must be assessed. and this is the recommendation which expresses the legitimate concern that the libe committee has the duty to convey to the commission, because we know very well that the implementation, the implementing act, is the commission's and it will adopt it. the commission and the council are doing their job, but the european parliament is also doing its job by drawing attention to the importance of properly assessing the uk's enforcement practices now and in the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what have we learned from the schrems judgment? given that the commission is ready to hand the united kingdom an adequacy decision in a too hasty way, we could think the european union has learned nothing. but we should know better. the privacy shield was invalidated at the european court of justice because of the mass surveillance practices used by the us government, and thanks to the 2013 revelations by edward snowden we are well aware now that the uk government uses similar mass surveillance devices, and it should be obvious to everyone that mass surveillance – indiscriminate mass surveillance – is a huge threat to our fundamental rights. european citizens have the right to not be considered first as criminals by their governments. european citizens have the right to protect their very personal and sensitive information. in concrete life would it be possible to have someone knocking at your door every five minutes trying to sell you something or make you do something, complete strangers that know everything about you, not only where you went, what you did, who you met, who are your relatives, but very intimate things – your tastes, your habits, your wishes, your frustrations, your dreams, your angers, your joys. it seems that some lobbies, and maybe some people in the commission, want to bargain these fundamental rights. and this is not in the interest of citizens, but neither of business, because good business is done with good democratic rules and stability and good faith. there has been legal uncertainty for too long, there have been various attempts at prioritising hazardous data flows for too long. first, with the us, now with the uk, but soon with third countries which the uk government will go into trade with, not respecting any of our rules and accepting to share data with no rules. we are at serious risk of sharing personal european citizens’ data everywhere in the world, even with authoritarian countries.
mr president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, what is the use of data protection regulations and the judgments of the european court of justice if the gafam can continue to do whatever they want with our personal data? unsurprisingly, the most significant court cases involve facebook, which is notorious for its borderline ethical conduct. last month, in another case, it was revealed that the personal data of more than half a billion users had been leaked. as mr schrems said, gafam makes a profit by breaking the law. yet facebook and others continue to collect personal data and store it outside our countries, with all the risks that come with it. only 4% of the data is stored in europe. what is left of our nations' digital sovereignty if we cannot protect the data of our fellow citizens? as long as we remain dependent on the whims of these rapacious corporations, we will never be able to ensure the protection of our data. if we really want to stop the misuse of data and take back control, we need to invest in alternative european solutions, so that data can be stored here in europe. moreover, by investing in data processing and storage capacity in europe, we will give a boost to french and european companies. yes, we must take back control in the digital domain and end the dominance of gafam, because we have lost too much time since then.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally succeeded in bringing to the forefront this absolute humanitarian emergency: the situation of the armenian prisoners of war still held in azerbaijan, in defiance of the geneva conventions, in defiance of international law, in defiance of the ceasefire agreement itself. armenia has released all its prisoners. aliyev is holding hostages on the pretext that they are terrorists; but the only terrorists in this case are the ones mr. erdoğan funded to attack karabakh, the jihadist mercenaries he brought in from syria. how many prisoners are still being held by azerbaijan? he won't say. even today, hundreds of armenian families live in absolute fear of whether their sons are dead or prisoners, victims of numerous cases of torture that have been documented. armenia has brought before the echr the case of 19 prisoners executed in custody: micha, narek, yourik, yelena... we must be their voice. in these last days, we have all received a flood of threats and lies, but we will not be silent. aliyev talks about peace and respect, but how can we believe him when he is still violating the armenian border? no reason, no disagreement, no diplomacy can excuse the violation of the most fundamental rights. the armenian prisoners of war must be released without delay.
madam president! we are talking today about a serious problem, namely the respect of international law and the letter of the ceasefire agreements between armenia and azerbaijan, and i believe that this should be the only subject of our resolution, because there is no doubt that the issue of the exchange of prisoners should be resolved as soon as possible and this issue should be resolved as soon as possible. remember, the last war was accompanied by a huge disinformation campaign on an unprecedented scale, so without a very thorough investigation, checking the allegations made, we will never be sure that the facts we present are completely true. i also do not understand why the resolution contains so many additional elements that go beyond its subject. we should not, for example, discuss the future status of nagorno-karabakh or the possible role of the european union in this regard. the resolution also lacks information on four azerbaijani soldiers who have been indicted by the azerbaijani authorities for human rights violations. i believe that this resolution does not allow for a calm, substantive dialogue with the azerbaijani authorities and a solution to the problem, and that is why both i and my colleagues will vote against it.
mr president, our message today is very simple. azerbaijan must release all armenian prisoners of war, civilian and military, unconditionally and immediately, period! and furthermore, azerbaijan must immediately close that disgusting so-called park of military trophies in baku. on the backs of armenian prisoners of war and soldiers, a humiliating exhibition is being shown here, and it is disgusting. we have to stop this. we have to shut down the park. i am glad, mr president, that we are finally having this debate today with a resolution, because we stand with the people of armenia. the european union must not turn a blind eye to the injustice that has been and is being inflicted on the armenians.
madam president, the people of nagorno—karabakh have the fundamental right to peacefully and democratically decide their future. resolving border problems between neighbours violently doesn’t work. the ceasefire agreement of november 2020 must be respected, and it is urgent that azerbaijan abide by the geneva convention and that the armenian prisoners of war are liberated. the eu cannot continue to sit and watch. we must get involved to help construct a lasting solution for the region. the recognition of the armenian genocide of 1915 is a necessary first step, and it is equally indispensable that member states like spain – that actively opposed sanctions on turkey last autumn – stop supporting erdoğan’s strategy of conflict for his benefit. if europe wants to promote peaceful and democratic solutions rather than conflict, european support for turkey must end.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you walk through baku on 8 november, the day recently proclaimed by the azerbaijani regime as a national holiday to commemorate the outcome of the war of aggression in nagorno karabakh, you will find a very strange plaque reading 'karabakh and azerbaijan' at the entrance to the new military trophy park. if you decide to visit this surreal place, you would see the helmets of armenian soldiers, perhaps abandoned or perhaps taken from their still warm bodies; you'd find 26 wax statues of armenian fighters. if you look closely, you'll notice something strange. they all have disproportionate features and eagle-like noses. ladies and gentlemen, what seems like a nightmare, a grotesque story, is reality and the sculptors themselves said that they generally wanted to do something more beautiful and this time they were ordered to do the opposite. i condemn in the strongest terms the very concept which underlies this exposition. these attempts to dehumanize and degrade an entire people evoke some of the darkest moments in our history. in addition to the proper demand for the immediate release of prisoners of war, who must not be used as sordid blackmail, i call for the immediate and definitive closure of this grotesque place, which i cannot call a museum, and i call on the whole community and the whole parliament to do the same.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you, and i would like to thank members of the european parliament for raising the issue of prisoners of war and other detainees in the aftermath of the 2020 hostilities. we took good note of the letter of more than 120 members of this house on the same issue. the eu has taken a clear position. we have repeatedly called on both parties to fully implement the ceasefire agreement. we have also called on them to exchange prisoners of war and to release all remaining detainees regardless of the circumstances of their capture, in accordance with international humanitarian law and the ceasefire agreement. the release of all armenian detainees is essential for building confidence and trust and would be an important political gesture. we welcomed the release of five armenian detainees on 29 january and of three on 4 may. we insist that all remaining detainees be released without further delay. the eu expects both parties to cooperate, not only on the return of detainees, but also on other important humanitarian issues. the recovery and repatriation of remains of the missing should continue. urgent and decisive steps are needed on the exchange of information necessary for the conduct of humanitarian demining and including the sharing of any available maps of minefields to enable return to areas devastated by conflict. to defuse tensions and allows societies to progress towards normalisation, it is also crucially important to refrain from inflammatory public rhetoric. the eu has called for accountability for any violation of international humanitarian law. allegations of torture, ill-treatment or execution of captives and any other war crimes that might have been committed during the recent hostilities, must be thoroughly investigated. the eu stands ready to contribute to international and independent justice mechanisms and to support an independent investigation into such claims. the cessation of hostilities and addressing the range of immediate humanitarian issues is only a first step to end the long lasting nagorno—karabakh conflict. renewed efforts for a negotiated, comprehensive and sustainable settlement are needed. the eu fully supports the osce minsk group led by its co-chairs, and we stand ready to contribute in the shaping of a durable and comprehensive settlement including through support for stabilisation and confidence-building measures.
in writing. the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan has caused great destruction and huge human losses: over 5,000 soldiers have been killed and thousands more wounded and displaced. to date, azerbaijan has not complied with paragraph 8 of the tripartite declaration of ceasefire signed with armenia and russia, which stipulates that prisoners of war, hostages, other detainees and bodies of killed persons should be exchanged. according to various sources, azerbaijan is illegally holding 200 prisoners of war in inhumane conditions. the continuing provocations and the failure to respect the ceasefire agreement are unacceptable, especially when they come from the same country that started the conflict as the aggressor. the azerbaijani authorities have even justified the unlawful arrests of armenian citizens after the end of hostilities by accusing the detainees of terrorism. i express my closeness to the armenian people, historically and culturally linked to europe. to remain silent in the face of this situation is not tolerable. europe must raise its voice, condemning the serious actions of azerbaijan and demanding the immediate release of the prisoners and the protection of armenia's cultural and religious heritage.
i can smell it. the uachtaráin, is the political hierarchy, which is currently in place in haiti. the election is expected to be held in 2019, after the death of president moïse, who is still in office, in ainneoin gur tháinig deireadh lena mhandáid i mí feabhra. the haitian people are concerned about an international ban on the use of the language in haiti. in the past few years, thousands of people in haiti have expressed their support for the government. i used to go forage against the go minic. since there is no trade-related legislation in force, this is a decision taken by the european union, which is responsible for the implementation of the directive. there are other big problems in the country, too, with regard to the chronic diseases, the dronganna, the fuadach, and even the system of child slavery. i am strongly urging the haitian authorities to take the necessary steps to end the use of force in the face of serious problems.
author. madam president, $10 billion: this is what donors put on the table after the terrible earthquake that struck haiti in 2010. that's a lot of money. what impact has it had on the lives of ordinary haitians? hardly any. today, in haiti, we do not live, we survive, when we are not confronted with the insecurity caused by armed gangs. a few weeks ago, these gangs kidnapped priests who had dedicated their lives to helping the haitian people. these gangs have been linked to a part of the haitian political class, a political class that has tragically failed. today, the haitian president rules by decree, prepares a referendum which we cannot support, and announces elections without having created the conditions for them to be held peacefully. as long as the conditions are not met, the european union cannot provide support or send observers to such uncertain elections. but haiti's bankruptcy is a collective bankruptcy. no one - neither ngos, nor donors, nor the european union - can boast of the total political, economic, social and security crisis that the country is experiencing and that is spilling over into the region, especially our overseas countries. before haiti collapses for good, it is up to all of us to get our act together.
author. madam president, haiti is a country in the process of collapse from a political, humanitarian, social and health point of view. rarely has a country been run by such a gang of criminals and incompetents. the people's daily life is one of death, murder, impunity, insecurity and corruption. due to the instability in the country, many criminal gangs control several neighborhoods in the cities, kidnapping hundreds of innocent citizens every year. for too long, haitians have lost confidence in their government and in their president, jovenel moïse, who is unable to meet the basic needs of the population. what can we do to ensure that the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights are upheld in haiti? we cannot stand by and do nothing about this situation. by remaining too discreet in the face of president moïse's continued power, the international community is complicit in an authoritarian regime that generates poverty, gang violence and food insecurity. we europeans have our share of responsibility and we do not ignore the calls of the haitian people. let us explicitly distance ourselves from jovenel moïse and his government. let us work only with those organisations which call for democratic stabilisation of the country. this resolution is significant given the imminent expiry of the constitutional referendum on 27 june. we condemn the organisation of the constitutional referendum that president moïse wants, which would allow him to concentrate more powers in his own hands. elections must be free, credible and transparent. we call on the european union and the international community to support haiti in this endeavour. there's no time to waste. as complex as the situation is, it is our duty to start listening to what the haitian people are saying and to act without further delay.
the author. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: ladies and gentlemen! 59% of the population in haiti lives in extreme poverty, 70% of haitian children are out of school. remaining food is still a common practice in haiti. we passed a resolution last term to protect these children who are being subjected to modern slavery. we are now back with another resolution on haiti, and the situation there is even more dramatic: the increase in violence, kidnappings, rapes, murders, massacres perpetrated by armed gangs operating with total impunity. only a credible, transparent and accountable electoral process can overcome the political crisis in haiti. the eu has allocated funds to help the most vulnerable in haiti, but we must ensure that this aid reaches those who need it most. i therefore believe that it is appropriate for the european court of auditors to report on the use of eu funds in haiti, especially in the context of allegations of corruption.
the situation in haiti is absolutely tragic. it is a deep political crisis coupled with a deep humanitarian crisis. president moïse's insistence on remaining in power at all costs has given rise to situations of state violence, attacks on those who want to fight for democracy. in addition, there is violence in the form of kidnappings, rapes, massacres. in haiti, the poverty rate keeps rising: 59% of the population live below the poverty line. education is not enough for everyone: the working population is largely illiterate and 350,000 children are not in school. there is food insecurity: four million people are unable to secure a decent meal, and this has to do, of course, with hurricane laura, but also with the pandemic and the lack of governance by the president. there is total impunity in haiti and that is why we call for solidarity with the people of haiti and for support in the necessary resources so that these people can live with dignity. this obviously requires the european court of auditors to be able to investigate and ensure that the funds that are distributed actually reach the population and are not held back by the corrupt elites. we must also condemn the holding of the referendum, which is illegal, but we must above all not forget the tragic situation of the haitian people and continue to support them without limits.
the s&d group is calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the extension of the mandate is the result of an interpretation of the constitution strongly contested by jurists, constitutionalists and opposition forces, who consider the mandate of the president, who has ruled by decree since january last year, after the dissolution of parliament, to have ended. the holding of the referendum, in turn, violates the country's constitution, which states that any popular consultation to amend it is strictly prohibited. in addition to political instability, haiti is also on the brink of health, social and economic collapse. i therefore call on the haitian authorities to restore the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights and democracy by holding free and fair legislative and local presidential elections later this year. democracy is the basis for social peace and the lever for the economic stability of the country, which the people of haiti have been waiting for for too many years and deserve as soon as possible.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, no one should be able to point the finger and stigmatize a man, woman or child who has been forced to leave his country to flee poverty and violence. but everyone must mobilize when behind this exile is also a human trafficking. from brussels, haiti may seem far away; but in reality, in this part of the world, several french european territories are in direct proximity to the haitian drama in the caribbean, as far as french guiana. we have always and everywhere demonstrated our solidarity and we know that today's emergencies require coherence and efficiency. so yes, we must check whether the european aid to haiti is really helping to combat the suffering of the haitian people. we have our doubts and they are legitimate; but we also need to measure the impact of this violent crisis. at this very moment, on the borders of french guiana, several hundred haitians are there and are asking for asylum. we cannot leave this european territory alone in the face of the haitian tragedy. the french government intervenes; europe must also intervene.
madam president, the situation in haiti is devastating: 60% of the population is below the poverty line, four million haitians are food insecure and there is a perpetual economic crisis, now aggravated by the effects of hurricane laura and the pandemic. to this disastrous humanitarian situation is added a serious political crisis, with president moïse trying to perpetuate himself in power and a response from the citizens consisting of a great wave of protests, in addition to a serious structural situation of violence in the country. we therefore call on the government to ensure the safety of its citizens and the legitimate right to protest; to respect the constitutional order of the country and the separation of powers; to hold free and fair elections as soon as possible to stabilise the country; and to continue to use our development cooperation tools to improve the devastating humanitarian situation on the island.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, the poverty, misery, despair, the radical lack of hope and of a future for the people of haiti is the first and main cause of the political crisis in the country; that is why i support the calls in this resolution for the restoration of the electoral calendar in the country and the correction of the constitutional conflict, and the efforts to bring an end to repression and violence unleashed by organized gangs. but the first condition for democracy and the values of peace and coexistence to make their way in a country that has suffered too much is to bring about a profound economic and social transformation that requires outside support. the lever that can really transform the situation is called social justice and it needs support for development, social economy and wealth sharing; it also requires us to ensure that all european companies operating in that country apply the values of the union in their activities, and of course we must comply with international asylum laws to welcome those fleeing persecution: that is why i do not agree with the wording of paragraph 16 of this resolution.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, certainly the situation in haiti is as many of you have described in your interventions. in recent months kidnappings for ransoms, attacks by criminal gangs against their rivals in the neighbourhood and widespread insecurity have increased in haiti in the context of almost total impunity. in parallel, political tensions are resurfacing due once again to disputes over the timing and the scope of the referendum on constitutional reform and of the elections proposed by the government. this electoral process has created a lot of trouble and increased political tensions. at the european union we have been following with a lot of attention and concern the current political and social crisis and its negative effects on the security situation for the everyday lives of haitians. certainly the persistent insecurity, growing poverty and the structural inequalities in haiti, together with increasing political tensions, may lead to a pattern of public discontent that will be followed by violence, police repression and other human rights violations. it’s very worrying to observe an increasing radicalisation of political instances, a worsening of the humanitarian crisis and the increase in gang—related violence with a high number of killings in poor neighbourhoods of the capital. we have urged the authorities to conduct effective and thorough investigations into these crimes. the eu has called for an inclusive political dialogue between all the forces of haiti in order to find an agreement on the conditions necessary for the organisation of such credible and democratic elections that will meet the aspirations of the people. unhappily, we had to announce on 6 may that the european union would neither finance nor send observers for the referendum on the new constitution. on that situation it is essential that the authorities provide safety and security for their citizens while respecting the rule of law and international human rights principles, which are crucial for haiti’s stability and development. we will keep monitoring developments in haiti and we will insist on the need to respect the rule of law and human rights. the european union stands by the haitian population, but the political class and the government need to understand that they have to become serious about basic economic and social reforms if they want to count on our continued support. in this context, the time is ripe for the development of a wider scale of eu public diplomacy in the field of human rights in haiti in accordance with the principles of the cotonou agreement and the european union’s global human rights strategy for 2024. thank you very much for your contribution, through your debate and resolutions.
author. – madam president, high representative, chad is a key country for security and stability in the sahel and an important partner of the european union in the fight against the terrorism in the region. sixty—six percent of the people live in severe poverty and more than 400 000 citizens are internally displaced. the turmoil that emerged after the death of president déby describes the fragility of the political situation in the country. i call on the national council of transition to respect its own declarations and to work towards free and fair elections. the people of chad deserve a civilian government based on the principles of democracy and human rights. the european union has to support chad in these efforts towards democracy. at the same time, we need to reaffirm our support for chad’s commitment in the g5 sahel. we should remain determined to assist chad and the wider sahel on its road towards stabilisation and recovery. yet, this support cannot be fully effective unless there is a strong governance and ownership.
author. madam president, mr high representative, the chadian people have been forgotten in the quest for stability in the sahel. chad has become a country where all socio-economic indicators are in the red: corruption and impunity are institutionalized. chad is certainly a major player in the fight against insecurity in the region, and this in partnership with the g5 members. it is supported by french operations and european aid. however, the social grievance in this country is enormous. the resulting implosion would have disastrous consequences for the whole region. the massive boycott of the april 11, 2021 presidential election was already a harbinger of a backlash that was poised to shake the already fragile pillars of this country. a dynamic of protest has been launched since february 2021, resulting in weekly demonstrations, which peaked in april, both in terms of mobilization and level of repression. chadians hoped for real change, especially for the young people, the majority of whom were illiterate, poor, hungry and ready to work for the armed movements, mercenaries or jihadists. the vast majority of chadians call for an inclusive and peaceful dialogue that can lead to transparent, free and democratic elections. the inclusive national conference they are calling for must be able to take place freely. the transitional military council must ensure the widest possible participation and ensure individual and public freedoms for all, including those who do not share its views. violent repression is not the answer. this is why we condemn in the strongest terms the cmt's crackdown on peaceful demonstrations and call for independent investigations. the european union is also supporting the chadian people, but must ensure that the funds it provides are not used to finance actions that do not respect human rights.
author. madam president, mr high representative, do the citizens of chad have the right to democracy and respect for the constitution of their country? judging by the silence of some who stood alongside mahamat idriss déby, the day after his authoritarian takeover, no. yet chadian men and women have courageously demanded their political rights in the streets in the face of a deby son as brutal as his father, for democracy and not a military dynasty. mahamat idriss déby violates the chadian constitution and has no democratic legitimacy. mahamat idriss déby, through this coup d'état that is taking place in chad, has been endorsed by the french government; but it will not be done by the european parliament. we condemn the military takeover and the suspension of the chadian constitution, and reject the charter proposed by the junta without any democratic consultation. by our vote, europe asks the junta to allow elections as soon as possible. we will ensure that european diplomacy works to convince its chadian partners to respect their democratic right. this parliament is asking for this very loudly. today we can be proud to represent the europe of values, while others are committed to compromise. many members of this parliament in the green group have also called for the freezing of the assets of the coup plotters. we are continuing this battle so that the union uses all the levers at its disposal to protect democratic rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on chad which is before us explains the terrorism affecting that country by, i quote, climate change and the exploitation of natural resources or the lack of educational and economic prospects. how can we fail to see that what is driving terrorism in n'djamena, as in paris, vienna or london, is first and foremost islamist ideology? denial of reality confuses cause and effect. how can we not see that this islamist ideology, wherever it has won, in kabul as in mosul, has closed all prospects for the future, banned education, and imposed violence and war? how can we fail to see that europe is, has been and will always be the target of this ideology of death? i fully share the view of our colleague arnaud danjean, who has tabled an amendment to recall this obvious fact: europe must finally come out of denial. the french military, supported in the region by some of our countries, is well aware of this jihadist threat, and has been fighting it every day and paying the price of blood in the face of it. since 2013, 55 french soldiers have fallen in this battle that concerns us all, because the security of europe is also at stake in the sahel. it involves the use of force against determined enemies backed by actors who want to destabilise us, and that once again we let them go unpunished. is it necessary to recall the role played by turkey, for example, on the libyan front in chad? ladies and gentlemen, we must act together, both in the sahel and here in our countries, in the face of this threat, the same threat that threatens our democracies.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, if any country is hostage to its geography, it is chad. chad has been caught between the libyan crisis, the sudanese uprisings, boko haram and the sahelian jihadists, and has been at war for years. its army, the spearhead of the g5 sahel, and its military prowess are widely recognised, but the threats against this country are also military, as the fact rebellion, which killed president idriss déby, has just demonstrated. we must help this country, which is facing too many demands and too many threats. however, the weight of the army in chad is both the strength and the weakness of this country; for if you repel your enemy at the point of your gun, you do not rule in uniform, nor by force, nor by reclining on your clan. for too long, some have believed that stability in chad depends on the maintenance of an authoritarian regime. i call on europe and the african union, but above all all all chadians, to deny them and to demonstrate that it is through openness and inclusiveness that the chadian transition will succeed. in chad, as elsewhere, the role of the military is to serve the state, not to replace it.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of april, wine growers and arborists in several european regions woke up and they had lost everything. they had lost everything in an episode of arctic cold of unprecedented magnitude. several hundred thousand hectares were affected in france, germany and italy. we are talking about 5 billion euros in losses. in france alone, 80% of the vineyard is severely affected and producers expect very low yields. many farms lost 100% of their crops. we have to go back to 1991 to find such a devastating episode. these gels are the final straw for the winegrowers, who were already struggling to get their heads out of the water due to the economic consequences of covid-19 and us sanctions. it's not just wine; it's horticulture. many fruit crops have suffered a heavy toll from this year's cold, with losses of up to 80% for apricots, 70% for plums and 60% for apples, for example. in just a few nights of frost, the income of many farmers vanished, including farmers who had invested in crop protection equipment. are we surprised by what happened? no, we can't say that. every year, we get together and say, "ah, another episode and we've never seen this before". other the european union is facing an increasingly extreme, widespread and frequent hazard every year: climate change. the insurance systems we have in place are not up to the losses of farmers. farmers are facing a climate reality that is beyond the reach of the tools that the common agricultural policy puts at their disposal. it is very important that the european union should face this fact and stop looking elsewhere. i very much regret that, in the negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy, the european parliament did not have the support of the european commission to substantially improve the insurance system of the second pillar of the cap. i would also like to take this opportunity to ask the commission, in view of the final phase of the negotiations which will take place next week, to review its position on parliament's request to change the average used for calculating the losses. the current five-year average needs to be extended, because we have farmers who, over these five years, have four years of climate hazards, so the average is not adapted. in the face of climate change, prevention measures may be unnecessary at this stage. farmers do not have the means to cope with unforeseen weather conditions. we talk about irrigation and investing in irrigation equipment, but we still need water to irrigate. i welcome the objectives of the green deal for europe in improving the sustainability of european agricultural production, but there is a need to put in place instruments to strengthen the environmental and economic resilience of european production without delay. moreover, the european union must not lose the battle of science, nor that of the region: we will see research products that are not currently authorised in europe arrive on international markets, and that mean that, in the face of climate change, european farmers can leave with different basic rules. they will not be able to resist climate change if research does not produce plants that are resistant to climate change. these new techniques can be an effective and inexpensive solution to meet the requirements of the european green deal and to improve crop resistance. the report published last week on new techniques for genome editing was welcomed. i'm waiting for the impact study to come back. ladies and gentlemen, let us not miss the appointment that history has given us: that of adapting our agriculture to climate change.
mr president, in presenting the union's industrial strategy, the european commission is inviting us to think economically. it is time to ask the question of the handicaps you impose on our companies: the inflation of standards, some of which are absurd, the distorted competition, i am thinking in particular of posted workers, the impossibility of access to public contracts for our smes. you call it digital and green transition. on the digital transition, we can only say "finally!" europe has seen the digital revolution elude it because of your bureaucratic inertia. it was the americans and the chinese who made a decisive breakthrough. on the ecological transition, beware of the temptation that underlies your approach, that of punitive ecology. the great revolutions - and the ecological revolution is one of them - are only made by adherence and not by coercion, by positive collaboration and not by forced enlistment. the coercive cultural revolution, that's mao tse-tung, that comes from totalitarianism and it doesn't work. so use incentive more than repression. this ecological reflection also requires you to revise your globalist software, the one that programs, for example, the specialization of the regions of the world by type of activity. china, the world's factory? that's a good idea. we saw what this has done during covid: the shortage for our countries, the humiliation of a europe that cannot produce paper masks. today, to be close is to be ecologically virtuous and that means being penalized. it means being forced to comply with overwhelming environmental or social standards and being competed with by countries that are not bound by any rules. the ecological revolution we are calling for is the localist revolution: the one that turns its back on free trade agreements in favour of fair trade agreements that allow for controlled and virtuous trade. the localist revolution means implementing short circuits everywhere to produce, consume and recycle locally. the keyword should no longer be mobility, but proximity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is wonderful that we are having a debate today on the strategy for small and mediumsized enterprises. but where does this take place in the commission's work in everyday life? do you actually read everything you're suggesting here? if i can just mention non-financial reporting, minimum wage, supply chain law, i have to ask myself: where else can you see an sme strategy? i myself worked in a medium-sized company. it doesn't help me to be excluded, but i can get things done through supplying big companies. i would also like to ask the same question of the colleagues who have made such ardent pleas today. and then i read the amendments - i am looking particularly at the empty rows on the left - and i can no longer see anything of what was said today. if we are clear about our commitment to small and mediumsized enterprises, then we must really help them, and that means letting them do their job. they follow the rules, they follow the laws. they do not need to be told every day from brussels how to do things.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this very rich and interesting debate. it indeed reflects our shared determination. in order to get over this crisis successfully, we need smes at the heart of our recovery. the eu economy as a whole will manage future shocks only if smes are resilient, competitive and innovative. it will only be possible to secure jobs for europeans if smes thrive and grow. there is one issue which i haven’t heard so much about. this is the issue of entrepreneurship. i think we have to favour and promote entrepreneurship in europe. this is, by the way, an important objective of our skills agenda. we need more entrepreneurs in europe because without entrepreneurs, we have no companies, and without companies, we have no innovation, no new jobs. let me assure you, the commission is doing everything it can to support smes and cushion the impact of the pandemic. now is the moment to relaunch, rebuild and support development, and we will take on board your concerns and your suggestions in rolling out these sme actions. many of you are calling to reduce the administrative burden on smes. rightly so. the commission is firmly committed to further cutting red tape, to reducing and simplifying regulations, and to making them as cost-efficient as possible for smes where they cannot be abolished. we will systematically apply an sme test in our impact assessments and look at further improvements. we need transparency in these processes. we also have to focus on the broader issue of quality legislation, as mr ferber said. we have strengthened the role of the sme envoy network, which will actively contribute to the work of the ‘fit for future’ platform, and the commission will be able to present an overview of all new costs and savings in the annual burden survey. you also asked about the nomination of an eu sme envoy. smes need a strong voice now more than ever before. they continue to be highly affected by the pandemic, from liquidity to solvency problems, and the need for digital and green transitions has only accelerated them. while the commission shares parliament’s eagerness to appoint an sme envoy, we need the right experience and skill set, as well as balance in terms of the representativeness of the sme community across the eu. smes are, as has been sufficiently underlined, the backbone of our economy and deeply woven into the social and local fabric of our union. only together with you, honourable members, and all of our member states and their regions, will we be able to effectively support smes in the recovery and make their path to a green and digital transition as smooth as possible. i believe that these transitions are major opportunities for the development of smes, but we need to provide them with adequate support to promote their innovative capacity. i would like to insist on one issue which has perhaps not been mentioned so much, although when i’m talking to smes, when i’m talking to employers, i hear that one of their major problems – which is perhaps even more important than the regulatory burden – is not being able to find the right skilled people. this is a major issue. we have to make sure that the smes get the right skilled people because they will not be able to master, to manage, the digital transition, the green transition, without having the right skilled people. so we have to help them, to support them, to invest in their people. that’s precisely the purpose of the pact for skills, that’s the purpose of the skills agenda, as the big companies can afford it, while the smaller companies have more difficulty in devoting more money to upskilling and reskilling their employees, and in finding the young people they need with the right skills. here also i want to insist on another aspect which is important when we are talking about smes. they play a fundamental role in training, in educating and skilling young people. their role in vocational training is key; therefore, we have to support them when we are talking about vocational training. everyone is now in favour of vocational training, but who is doing the vocational training? the thousands and thousands of smes are doing the vocational training and therefore, precisely in this crisis, they had trouble taking on more apprentices. they were in trouble continuing apprenticeships, so we have to support them. incidentally, one of the initiatives under the commission’s young employment support (yes) programme was precisely to support smes in order to offer sufficient apprenticeships despite the crisis, despite their financial difficulties, to young people. they are playing a fundamental role precisely in giving good employment prospects to the young. we all share these endeavours and we all want to strengthen the european economy. we all know that to strengthen the european economy we need strong smes.
the joint debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european union's economy. unfortunately, they have been particularly vulnerable to the effects of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. in this context, priorities such as digitalisation, sustainability and resilience have only become more relevant. i also think it is extremely important to reduce the administrative burden. in 2019 the new european commission committed to better regulation and less red tape for smes in this context , the commission 's efforts to reduce regulatory burdens are to be welcomed . the introduction of the 'one in' and 'one out' principle seems to reduce in a comprehensive manner the information obligations and other burdens imposed by the legislation on smes. however, further action is required. .smes need rules to encourage them to develop, innovate and invest, and the european union should be more decisive in this respect in addition, we should put particular emphasis on strengthening european supply chains and addressing supply bottlenecks. i hope that the commission will approve the national recovery plans as soon as possible so that the funds for the recovery of companies after the crisis can be distributed as soon as possible and provide an impetus for further development. i 'm not .
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) account for around 100 million jobs and more than 50% of gdp in the european union. the survival of smes, family businesses and individual entrepreneurs is the key to the functioning of the european economy. it is therefore of the utmost importance that smes receive effective assistance while curbing the coronavirus pandemic. successful action depends on three factors: reducing red tape, providing additional resources and respecting the rights of others. it is good that the european commission has also recognised the importance of reducing the bureaucratic burden on smes. in the current situation, it would be irresponsible to burden smes with the ideological expectations of the european left. therefore, efforts to put the principle of 'one country, one vote' into practice are welcome. however, in parallel with the reduction of red tape, there is a need to expand subsidies and programmes for smes. neither the revised industrial policy strategy nor the commission's statements so far have adequately addressed these issues. developed programmes and targeted resources are needed to effectively support the digital and green transition of smes. finally, the european commission must give due respect to smes. it is incomprehensible that, a year and a half after taking office, the commission has been unable to define the tasks and powers of the eu sme pillar. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency'), which will be responsible for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises across the european union have been severely affected by the pandemic. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures in question. this situation shows us once again the fragility of the european economic environment and the risks faced by smes in the eu. unfortunately, the impact of the pandemic has been felt strongly at the level of small entrepreneurs, and many companies with capital difficulties have reduced their activity or even gone bankrupt. this is unfortunately the case in romania, where most smes are unbankable and have had to consume their last resources to survive. moreover, in the absence of coherent support measures from the right-wing government of romania, some of the companies have ceased their activity or have preferred to increase prices. the solution can come from the european union, both through appropriate regulation and through support mechanisms through recovery plans. unfortunately, some countries, including romania, have ignored the call of smes. let's not forget the small entrepreneurs and find together solutions to save the european local economy!
in writing. studies show that recovery from the crisis will take years, and for some sectors, a return to pre-pandemic levels is not expected until 2024. additionally, these cautious forecasts are conditioned by references to the fact that the rate of recovery also depends on the effects of the vaccination campaign, the epidemiological situation, national policies, the ability of business to adopt. delayed or unrecorded effects of the epidemic should be taken into account, which may also play a negative role. however, smes have been the most affected by the crisis, including the problem of payment bottlenecks. many of these are now referred to by experts as "phantom companies", meaning those that have effectively ceased operations and exist only with the help of national pandemic support measures that are set to end in the fall. however, smes play a very important role, inter alia in strategic sectors, where they dominate the second and third tier supplier segment. there is therefore a risk that they will be adopted by non-european actors, which will create problems for the security of individual member states as well as the security of the union. therefore, both at national and union level, strategic segments should be monitored, inter alia, for the status of their european smes in order to ensure that their role in value chains is preserved.
in writing. – beyond the steep drop in their value added, jobs provided by smes decreased by more than 1.4 million in the past year of covid-19 crisis. yet the systemic handicaps smes face on a european scale stretch farther than the pandemic. thus, on average, the costs to comply with new rules are 10 times higher relatively for small businesses than they are for large enterprises. when new legislation is being mooted, like in the digital area, we all stress the need for regulations to maintain proportionality. in practice, new rules are being designed for the larger enterprises, and then get scaled down for smes. inherently, this means that rules carry a bias against small size, which should be continually kept in mind by legislation-makers. applying the rules should not hinder smes’ capacity to grow and create jobs. more and more new rules are being needed to address a wide variety of global challenges from climate change to technological innovation. inbuilt in the design of such legislation must remain the priority of helping smes become more resilient in the face of ongoing challenges while minimising, simplifying and streamlining administrative requirements. i welcome the fact that the european union seems to be applying more thoroughly its ‘think small first’ principle.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) were the most affected by the closures. the measures taken so far deserve reflection and i believe that the time has come to think of bold initiatives to revive this sector. one of the main obstacles faced by italian smes on a daily basis is bureaucracy, and that is why simplification and streamlining of procedures is crucial in my view. as regards regulatory requirements, greater flexibility should have been provided, especially for disposals affecting the credit environment of the real economy and smes, in order to reduce the impact on banks' balance sheets. another very divisive issue to consider is climate and the environment. as i have said many times before, we are running the great risk of setting our companies such ambitious targets that they are unrealistic in practical terms. a concrete and current example is the directive on single-use plastics, which is threatening the jobs of thousands of european citizens. for these reasons, i expect a concrete and effective response from the institutions, which will be able to revive this sector, which is so important to the economy.
the next item is the debate on the report by johan van overtveldt, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on competition policy – annual report 2020 (2020/2223(ini)) (a9-0168/2021).
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would very much like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, johan van overtveldt, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their comprehensive report. i think it provides an excellent basis for today’s debate. i think this engagement deserves our warm thanks. the time and effort put into this report show the parliament’s interest in competition policy and how this is seen as an important policy area. that’s because it goes to the very heart of the choices we need to make for europe to recover from the pandemic. we need to recover in a way that is strong and sustainable, and of course to continue to offer europeans what they deserve: societies that include them and provide for them. this is also a europe that seizes the opportunity that comes with the green and digital transitions that give companies of all sizes a fair chance to compete on their merits on a level playing field, to the benefit of the businesses themselves and obviously for us as consumers. the past 15 months have put a strain on every individual, every human that lives on this planet. our societies and our economies have been under great strain and, as it happens, it has shown the importance of well—functioning markets for things to continue, for value chains to deliver, for goods to be brought to supermarkets, for hospital equipment to be available, and for protective gear to be there. competition policy is essential to reach that goal. the passing months have also shown that our rules remain relevant, that they serve us well and that they can be swiftly adapted if need be. when the crisis hit, our state aid rules enabled quick and effective support to address the economic consequences of covid—19, while at the same time maintaining the integrity of the single market. the state aid temporary framework enabled member states to make use of the full flexibility of rules to support their businesses. since march 2020 the commission has adopted more than 500 decisions and approved over eur 3 trillion in aid. the temporary framework is currently set to apply until the end of this year. we continue to monitor its ability to offer the necessary support, especially for those sectors that are hardest hit, and we know that has everything to do with humans travelling, sleeping, eating – in short, hospitality, culture, tourism. we will continue to look at it because obviously it is important that we can still give support where the crisis has hit, while progressively phasing out the crisis rule once the situation allows for it. but this year we have not only dealt with the crisis. along with keeping up the pace of our enforcement, we have worked to ensure that our competition rule book remains fit for the challenges, including those from the green and digital transition. we have launched a reflection process on how competition rules can contribute to the objective of the european green deal, and indeed we did it in the parliament. we are now in the process of reviewing key state aid rules to ensure that they are fully fit for purpose. just today, we have launched a public consultation on the new climate, energy and environmental state aid guidelines. they will play a key role in enabling the green transition, while maintaining a level playing field in the single market. we also looked at the jurisdictional and procedural aspects of our merger rules, and we have issued new guidance on the application of the referral mechanism by member states to the eu level, to work very closely with national competition authorities to enable us to review what we sometimes call killer acquisitions, including in digital markets, things that would otherwise go unnoticed. we are revising our market definition notice to take stock of developments, and also, of course, revising our vertical and horizontal block exemption regulation. so it is indeed a busy year. looking forward, not only do we look at competition rules as such, and not only do we enforce them vigorously, but we also seek regulatory solutions to address systemic behaviours arising on large digital platforms with a gatekeeping role. in december last year, we adopted the digital markets act proposal. it aims to ensure that digital markets within our union remain open and contestable so that companies, both large and small, have fair opportunities to compete online, as they do offline. the digital markets act will tell the very large gatekeepers what to do and indeed what not to do. it will enable us, in close cooperation with national competition authorities, to act and to sanction gatekeepers who do not respect the rules. the proposal has progressed very well in council, and i am very happy to see how the pace is picking up in parliament. i really appreciate that engagement and that interest because we need the regulation and we need it fast. i very much look forward to continuing the discussion with parliament’s committees and members over the coming months. last, but not least, in addition we’ve just tabled a proposal to deal with foreign subsidies because they can be very distortive. as you will know by heart, for 60 years our state aid rules have been ensuring that aid granted by member states is targeted, proportional and does not undermine fair competition in the single market. but similar rules for subsidies do not exist for subsidies granted by foreign states, so our proposal aims to make this imbalance a thing of the past. companies that receive subsidies from non—eu countries will need our approval before they implement big mergers in europe, in addition to clearance under the eu merger regulation. companies will have to tell us what subsidies they have received when they bid in large public tenders and, again, won’t be able to win and to close those tenders without our ok. we’ll have the power on our own initiative to investigate any company to see if it has received foreign subsidies that harm fair competition in europe. we have a lot on our plate. i appreciate your interest and engagement, and i think it is really well reflected in the report that is the basis for today’s discussion. thank you very much. i am committed to continuing to work closely with you and i look forward to today’s debate.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, madam executive vice-president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be able to speak on the annual report on competition policy from this chamber in strasbourg. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and cooperation throughout the negotiations. the pandemic we have been through and whose end we are beginning to see, at least in health terms, has illustrated the fundamental role of our competition policy. the rapid and effective mobilisation of the european commission, with the establishment of the temporary framework for state aid, has notably enabled member states to provide the necessary support to companies hit hard by the economic consequences of covid. this exceptional situation is not intended to be permanent. we must quickly rebuild our economy on a sound basis by preserving competition within our single market. however, a return to normalcy does not mean a return to the world of yesterday. we have learned from this crisis in terms of strategic autonomy and harmonisation of our single market. our competition policy is one of the tools for achieving this and for combating any distortion of competition which would weaken our economy, our economies and our internal market. i am pleased that the european commission, despite the crisis, has continued to make progress on crucial issues such as unfair competition at international level, with the instrument on foreign subsidies, and on online competition imbalances, with the act on digital markets. there is a pilot on this plane and we know where we're going. the european parliament must also take its full seat in the cockpit to be informed and to be associated with the ambitious roadmap on competition and recovery policy for the years ahead. recovery and competition are two issues closely linked to the objectives we have set ourselves in terms of commercial, industrial, environmental, digital, consumer protection and competitiveness policy.
madam president, my very large company is not in crisis. in 2021, the cac 40 giants will pay 51 billion euros to their shareholders. that's 22% more than last year. it's a miracle, isn't it? it's a miracle, is it not? in fact, not really, because all these companies, like total or sanofi, received state aid. the scandal does not stop there, because the cac 40 plans to eliminate 30 000 jobs at the same time in france alone. while smes are left to die, shareholders are enriched by subsidies, and the european union, so quick to block all aid to public enterprises, applauds with both hands. this policy of benefiting a privileged few has lasted too long. the state and the european union must take back control and make aid conditional. not a single euro of public money should be used to eliminate jobs, evade taxes or destroy the planet. it is a key strategic lever for the ecological bifurcation and employment. but it is also, and above all, an imperative of justice in the face of the exploding inequalities.
mr president, let’s be honest. the main cause of the loss of biodiversity is not mentioned in this report. it is the simple fact that there are simply too many people on this planet. we are the main cause of loss of biodiversity. unless we stop population growth, all this talk is useless. we are postponing decisive action. we should take responsibility and promote curbing population growth worldwide. you can urge, stress, regret, express, note and call on the commission as much as you like. as long as we do not acknowledge we have to curb population growth, all efforts are in vain. i will vote for this report although i know it won’t be enough, but it’s the least i can do.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, many citizens have become aware of the importance of stable and regional food production. unfortunately, the fact that farmers' work is one of the most important contributions to the conservation of biodiversity is often overlooked. that is why it is important for me to stress today that ensuring the nutrition of our population and the conservation of biodiversity go hand in hand. when we talk about the european union's biodiversity strategy, the question of how ecology and economics can be brought together must be at the centre. we need to discuss how biodiversity can be preserved and promoted in the context of modern and efficient agriculture. no other sector is more directly dependent on the protection of biodiversity than agriculture and forestry. in turn, our native cultural landscape provides a habitat for many animal and plant species. it is our farmers, foresters and fishermen who have been cultivating and maintaining our fields, forests, ponds and lakes for centuries. they all work every day to protect and preserve biodiversity, thus securing the basis for our food. it is important to me that cooperative solutions on the ground are given priority over regulatory law. this will increase acceptance among farmers. the result is a combination of agriculture and environmental associations. i would therefore be glad if you would support the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture tomorrow.
mr president, we must stop the natural disaster. i believe that is the view and the aim of each of us. there are already very different tones for the instruments and their overall durability. i do not think that european nature can be put together in a single form, as the committee on the environment has unfortunately done. we need to see the whole, because partial optimisation does not lead to sustainable solutions. in particular, forests and their condition vary greatly between member states. finland already has more than half of the eu's protected forests and the largest forest resources. i cannot accept that strict conservation objectives are set for old forests, for example, without agreement on what is meant by old forests. it is up to the member states to define it. the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, which the committee on the environment has not wanted to hear, bring a global view and balance to the report. in supporting these proposals, we are also consistent with the forestry strategy we have just adopted.
mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur and the commission for a very good report on biodiversity. and i think we all know biodiversity is at the heart of our economy. without bees, there’s no food. without clean oceans, there are no fish. so we need to protect our biodiversity, not only for nature, but also for ourselves. and this has to be done globally, but also at the european level, because i hear a lot of colleagues are pleaing here and saying, well we need to look at the science. well, the science is very clear. there is an ongoing loss of biodiversity globally and in europe. and how do we solve that? we solve that by addressing all the drivers that are leading to a loss of biodiversity. and we have to do that together. absolutely. but we don’t do that by denying. we need better sustainability criteria. we need forest protection. we need that our agriculture system has less pressure on our nature and our biodiversity for ourselves and for our future economy and our kids.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! i support the objective of protecting biodiversity, but please note that we need to clarify the definitions in this document. i am of course also in favour of a more rational and optimised use of fertilisers and plant protection products. however, it should be noted that an overly ambitious strategy could endanger food security and reduce the competitiveness of european agriculture. we must be aware of this and we must consider whether the european union is prepared to subsidize agriculture in order to fight more broadly for the conservation of biodiversity. the cost of these measures will be high, but of course there is no price that cannot be paid for the protection of nature, for the protection of the environment. i ask the commissioner if we are prepared to bear the costs, because these costs must not be borne by farmers, by foresters, by the people who live off agriculture and provide us with food.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate and environmental emergency is here. the sixth mass extinction of species is on the agenda. it is therefore imperative to act swiftly and consistently. the biodiversity strategy we are discussing today addresses this challenge seriously, but it would be hypocritical to celebrate a non-binding text and say nothing about the future common agricultural policy. intensive farming remains one of the main causes of biodiversity loss. the scientists say it again: we must radically transform the cap to promote a more environmentally friendly agriculture. unfortunately, that is not the plan. the new cap and its national decline threaten organic farming, for example, whereas on average 30% more species are found on organically grown areas. i therefore call for the consistency of our parliament. yes to an ambitious strategy to maintain and preserve biodiversity, but no to a common agricultural policy that locks us in a model that is unsustainable for our farmers and for the planet.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, heavy industries, transport, farmers, fishermen, consumers: we must involve all of them in this effort to build up biodiversity. these are ambitious and binding targets that will enable us to achieve, conserve and, more importantly, restore biodiversity in europe by 2030. we have to understand that everything is connected: what happens on earth and what happens in the sea. the different marine and terrestrial ecosystems are interconnected. fishermen alone will not be able to restore marine biodiversity, just as farmers alone will not be able to restore terrestrial biodiversity. more than that, they are often the first victims of biodiversity loss - along with, of course, the ecosystems themselves. so, because we need to link all sectors of activity, all actors, we might have to move - i think so, but you are convinced, commissioner - towards the ecosystem approach. i think that all of this must be integrated and that is probably why we will have to include all of this in the new common fisheries policy tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the vote on the climate emergency in 2019 and the vote on the green deal in 2020, the european parliament is once again leading the way towards an ambitious environmental transformation of european public policies. i would therefore like to congratulate mr césar luena on the excellent text which is being put to the vote in this house today. i also particularly welcome the prospect of our parliament adopting the 25% organic agricultural area target in 2030, which will however have to be confirmed again when the farm to fork strategy is voted. agriculture is both an undeniable cause and a clear victim of the collapse of biodiversity. and to those who continue to oppose ecology and economics, biodiversity and productivity, i ask them: how can we achieve food security in the face of ecosystems that are no longer sustainable, that are no longer in balance? fortunately, agriculture also offers many solutions, such as organic farming. however, i am also very worried. the final cap arbitrations are yet to be determined, but the direction taken will not achieve the objectives of the green deal. how can we ensure that member states will seek to achieve them? there's no guarantee that we will. french organic farmers who demonstrated last week against the reduction of their aid are witness to this. so to get out of the red zone, we're gonna have to go green and fast.
mr president, commissioner, our biodiversity is at risk. it's a scientific consensus. there is an urgent need to get out of the postures and the fine speeches and finally to act. first, act globally at cop 15, with a legally binding agreement with ambitious, quantified and measurable targets, so as not to repeat the failure of the aichi targets. then, act at european, national and also local level. protecting and restoring our biodiversity is not just about saving whales halfway around the world. it means doing everything possible to preserve our air, our waters, our forests, our soils. the objectives proposed in this strategy are in the right direction: 30% of protected areas in europe, of which 10% strictly speaking, is realistic and necessary. but all this will have to be done with those who suffer every day the impacts of our legislation and the loss of biodiversity: our farmers, our fishermen, our forestry workers. they must be supported, accompanied and compensated if their activity is affected. this is a prerequisite if we are to rise to the challenge.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the movements of europeans this summer have been disorderly and poorly coordinated. the european union reacted swiftly and well. finally, it is equipping itself with a tool enabling citizens to regain their mobility while respecting health requirements. that's good. it is our young people who are still in an imperfect situation. for a year, they had to put aside their social life, their education, their entry into the labour market. today, because most are not vaccinated, they will have to be tested to benefit from the covid certificate. the vaccine is free, but testing is paid for in most member states. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. i therefore want to renew this parliament's call for member states to take the lead and offer pcr tests at affordable prices. it is essential for the health and mobility of europeans.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i do not share the enthusiasm of many of my colleagues for the covid-19 certificate. i do not think it is the tool that will guarantee, after 16 months of pandemic, the return of free movement in europe. i maintain that the mandate adopted by parliament in april was weak and lacked much room for manoeuvre in relation to the interpretation of the member states. the interinstitutional political agreement reached confirms these fears. the introduction of this certificate was intended to remove the heterogeneous restrictive measures of the member states. this is not the case, which calls into question the purpose of the certificate. the certificate was to be operational from 1 july. some member states have rushed to put another tool into operation. once again, the countries are moving europe forward in a disorderly way. this certificate is not consolidated by the free testing, as we requested. it therefore opens the way to risks of discrimination. finally, the agreement does not preclude access to infrastructure from being dependent on the certificate, which amounts to restricting access to certain goods and services. for all these reasons, i am unfortunately not satisfied with the results obtained with regard to this certificate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are moving towards the launch of a tool that the entire tourism sector has been waiting for for a long time to boost travel by lifting quarantine and restrictions. of course, there is no shortage of criticisms. if there had been no macroscopic errors in the management of the vaccines, the certificate would have been operational well before july 1st, in time to better plan the tourist season. then there are the communication problems that have conveyed the idea of a vaccine obligation that does not exist, provoking emotional reactions in many citizens. finally, some criticisms still remain about differences between member states in the definition of certifications of those who have recovered from covid or on the use of serological tests. however, this agreement is a step forward, but with certain conditions: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the issue of the certificate.
mr president, commissioner, the fundamental right to free movement within the european territory has been undermined by covid-19 and by the amalgamation of unilateral and heterogeneous measures adopted by the member states, which has seriously affected sectors that depend on mobility, such as tourism. we therefore welcome the fact that there has finally been consensus among the european partners on the adoption of this certificate, which is key to the revival of mobility and hence for sectors such as tourism. we cannot afford to miss the summer season again and, to avoid it, the implementation of this digital covid certificate is fundamental. this will help us to live with the virus, facilitating mobility in a safe way and generating confidence in both businesses and citizens. the figures on tourism activity this summer will tell us whether it is really a tool that contributes to normalizing mobility. i therefore ask that it be implemented as soon as possible and that any further measures be coordinated between the member states. we're here to provide solutions, not create more problems.
i am speaking to the member states because, ladies and gentlemen, summer has arrived, the suitcases are packed, it is time to leave. but the european, he still has many questions. do i have to test negative now? do i have to be quarantined? what about my 10-year-old who hasn't been vaccinated? we owe these europeans an answer. the council, together with you, has been taking a flight to the holiday season for some time now. now we're approaching the landing site and you're holding the rudder, but we're still expecting some turbulence. think of children and young people who have not yet been vaccinated. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of young people against the risks of exposure to asbestos. i therefore call on the member states to coordinate implementation and to streamline measures as much as possible. we're ready to land, but we need a soft landing. we must show that we as europe are capable of landing our aircraft safely.
mr president, commissioner, with the european covid-19 certificate we will enable european citizens to go on holiday with peace of mind, to travel in europe without any additional constraints. from 1 july, whether you are vaccinated, tested negative for a pcr or antigen test, or recovered from covid-19, you will be able to travel without any other requirement than to present this certificate. it will be free, in print or digital form, with a qr code to ensure its safety and authenticity. it will allow us to regain our freedom of movement, to revive tourism and to improve the daily lives of many border workers. the european union has therefore been working to harmonise the entry rules in the different member states, so that this certificate can be introduced by all and accepted throughout europe. it is now up to the member states to implement it, and many of them are already ready to issue this certificate. it is the european response to end the patchwork of different quarantine rules or other special restrictions that european citizens have been subjected to for too long.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the response of the european institutions to covid was not perfect from the start, but it has been corrected over time, and today we have responded to the demand of citizens with vaccines in a timely manner and a discipline that attempts to harmonize the response of the various countries. the citizens have willingly submitted to the demand for restrictions on freedom of movement because they have asked for protection in return. we responded by protecting and rushing vaccines. i'm struck by the contrast between our reaction to freedom and this. the citizens have asked for all this. well, today, as citizens flock to vaccination centers and get vaccinated, let's not betray them. the european states do not break this agreement on the covid-19 certificate, but implement it as it is, without wasting any more time and without fragmenting the responses.
the european union digital covid-19 certificate is the common and appropriate response to the pandemic. this health crisis has undoubtedly had a negative impact on our daily lives and its scale has led to different reactions from member states. freedom of movement has often been restricted to the extent of european regulations, creating difficulties for all economic sectors. the certificate aims to facilitate the free movement of persons by creating a common framework for its issuance, verification and acceptance, and for testing or curing covid-19. the european union is a continent of freedom. therefore, persons who are not vaccinated or do not wish to be vaccinated can still exercise their fundamental right to free movement, but with some limitations such as mandatory testing and self-isolation. the certificate does not establish any obligation or right to vaccination, but at the same time i urge all citizens to get vaccinated, because only then will we be able to return to normal.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i want to thank the members of the parliament for their contributions and maybe to say some words on three specific issues. first, the issuance of certificates already now by some member states. second, the affordability of the test and, then, the amendment to the recommendation about the free movement, because we want to lift restrictions for the summer. already today, most member states are issuing different types of covid—19 certificates to vaccinated, tested and recovered persons. to ensure the smooth rollout of the eu digital covid certificate, the commission has encouraged member states to already start issuing such certificates using their existing national provisions. so, it’s important to put pressure to start already now with the issuance of certificates. the more problems we solve now and the more certificates we can already issue, the easier the process will be during the summer. otherwise, we risk a big bang on 1 july, which we cannot afford. the commission has supported this process by launching the eu gateway, storing the public keys needed for the verification of the certificate. given that no personal data is exchanged via the eu gateway, member states can already make use of its functionality. seven member states have indeed already connected to the gateway and started issuing first eu certificates. and some of your constituents might have been already in the position to receive their eu digital covid certificate. the technical work to implement the eu digital covid certificate framework has been carried out in parallel with the political negotiations on the regulation. this was necessary due to the tight timeframe and important to ensure a smooth rollout of the system. an important milestone was reached on 1 june with the ‘go live’ of the technical system at eu level. since 10 may, 26 countries have already successfully tested their connection to the eu gateway. seven member states have already connected to the gateway and started issuing first eu certificates. a further six countries have passed all the necessary checks and are now waiting to go live. so, we’ll have more and more issuance of national certificates and now eu certificates in preparation of 1 july. of course, it’s necessary to do that to have a national law before 1 july. a second remark about the affordability of the test. the commission agrees that tests should be affordable for all citizens, in particular those that have to cross borders on a regular basis. but also some of you spoke about the young generation, who may be unable to be vaccinated by the beginning of the summer following the national strategies. and to support this effort, the commission has committed to mobilise – as i said in my introductory remarks – eur 100 million under the emergency support instrument to provide for tests that qualify for the issuance of an eu digital covid test certificate. these tests should be made available as a priority to persons who cross borders on a regular basis. this support will be provided in the form of grants that member states can use for the procurement and operation of tests. the administrative procedures are under preparation and national authorities will receive on monday 7 june - i received mine yesterday in fact - through the health security committee, an invitation to identify the contact point to negotiate and sign a grant. this adds to the eur 100 million that had already been mobilised to purchase over twenty million rapid antigen tests, which have been delivered to the member states. the option to purchase an additional 400 million tests has been secured through a joint procurement mechanism, which allows us to secure better conditions, including prices for individual member states. of course, as more and more people are vaccinated, the need for additional covid—19 tests and the resulting burden will decrease. and third, about the recommendation, our work does not stop with the adoption of the eu digital covid certificate regulation. making use of the certificate will allow member states to lift their travel—related measures in a coordinated way. the commission’s proposal to amend the council recommendation on free movement within the eu ensures the practical implementation of the important principles agreed in the regulation. it also ensures that the recommendation is fully in line with the regulation. for example, the commission proposed that fully vaccinated or recovered persons should be exempted from travel—related testing or quarantine and in line with the principles of the regulation, the commission also proposed that persons with a valid test certificate should not be required to undergo quarantine. the commission has also proposed important accompanying measures in time for the summer, for example, exemption to ensure the unity of travelling families. it’s important, of course, for the different people going on holidays during the summer. and the commission also proposed a standard validity period for travel—related tests: 72 hours for pcr tests and 48 hours for rapid antigen tests. i will try to ensure better coordination, but we are also trying to ensure the lifting of different restrictions. permettez-moi une fois de plus de vous remercier pour votre soutien et vos efforts au cours du processus de mise en place de ce certificat numérique européen. je vous remercie aussi, je le disais, de vos contributions au cours de ce débat. j’ai tenté de répondre sur les trois éléments principaux qui ont fait l’objet, d’une certaine manière, de nos discussions pendant le travail sur ce règlement: à la fois la manière dont on peut accélérer le processus – et dès aujourd’hui vous verrez que de plus en plus de certificats vont être émis dans l’ensemble des états membres pour être vraiment prêts au 1er juillet, sans surprise – et à la fois faciliter la libre circulation des européens, mais également lever de plus en plus de restrictions. nous le ferons – et je tiens aussi à le rappeler parce que cela a été soulevé à plusieurs reprises pendant le débat – dans le cadre d’un certificat qui vise à ne pas discriminer les personnes selon qu’elles sont vaccinées ou non. je le répète: nous permettons bien entendu d’exercer ce droit fondamental de la libre circulation, à travers – et j’insiste – des tests pcr mais également des tests antigéniques rapides, qui sont de plus en plus de haute qualité et qui sont à un coût très bas, très abordable. donc, il est évident que nous voulons éviter de discriminer et, bien entendu, j’ai rappelé les efforts que la commission a entrepris pour diminuer le coût des tests. les états membres font également des efforts. nous le voyons jour après jour à travers l’ensemble des états membres, en particulier pour les personnes qui traversent fréquemment les frontières, mais également pour les jeunes – je le répète – qui souhaiteraient être vaccinés, mais qui ne pourront peut-être pas encore l’être pour le début de l’été en fonction des stratégies nationales. j’espère vraiment que toutes ces mesures vont nous permettre, avec les amendements que nous proposons à la recommandation sur la libre circulation, de rendre de plus en plus accessible ce droit fondamental de la libre circulation. nous sommes en train de terminer le travail avec la présidence portugaise et les états membres pour faire en sorte que la coordination nous permette vraiment d’aller vers ce que vous avez souhaité, également dans le règlement que vous allez voter. c’est dans l’article 10: la levée des restrictions, c’est-à-dire qu’il n’y ait aucune restriction additionnelle pour les personnes disposant d’un certificat, qu’il s’agisse d’un certificat parce qu’on a été rétabli de la maladie, parce qu’on a été vacciné ou parce qu’on dispose d’un test négatif. bien entendu, seule la situation sanitaire pourrait entraîner la reprise de mesures de restriction mais, comme je l’ai dit tout à l’heure, il faudra que les états membres informent la commission et informent également les citoyens de ces mesures si elles devaient être envisagées. l’harmonisation peut encore paraître parfois compliquée: j’ai cité notamment les 72 heures pour les tests pcr, les 48 heures pour les tests antigéniques rapides. mais imaginez, monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, le temps qu’il m’aurait fallu, peut être jusqu’en début de soirée, si j’avais dû vous expliquer les 27 systèmes différents de certificats, les 27 systèmes différents de restrictions à la libre circulation. alors vraiment, je suis très heureux de pouvoir constater avec vous cette véritable amélioration pour les citoyens européens et le droit fondamental à la libre circulation qu’ils vont pouvoir à nouveau exercer de manière beaucoup plus simple à travers l’outil que vous allez mettre en place. je vous remercie encore pour le travail que nous avons pu faire dans ce sens avec les trois institutions. j’espère que, dès le 1er juillet, tous les citoyens européens se rendront compte que le travail que nous avons accompli permet réellement de faciliter leur vie quotidienne.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday, june 8, 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the right of eu citizens to move and reside freely within the european union is one of the eu's most valuable achievements and an important driver of its economy. the creation of vaccination certificates is another eu initiative to kick-start the recovery. it complements a number of targeted policies such as the common vaccination strategy or the super recovery fund, from which the direct disbursement of resources to the cypriot economy is more than warranted (around eur 968 million). through this ordeal, we have learned that nothing can be taken for granted. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has severely affected citizens' travel across the european union. the main purpose of the adopted eu covid certificate is therefore to facilitate the free movement and residence within the territory of the member states during the pandemic and thus to exercise one of the fundamental rights of the eu. the eu digital covid certificate regulation provides that the issuance of the certificate, whether in electronic or paper form, is free of charge, equally accessible to all and non-discriminatory, in particular for vulnerable groups such as the disabled and the elderly. the holder will use them to prove either the vaccinated status, the coronavirus disease or a negative test for covid-19. one of the key conditions of the european parliament in the negotiations was full equality and equal access to certificates, including negative test certificates. one of the key requirements was universal, timely and affordable access to covid-19 vaccines and sars-cov-2 testing. in support of vaccination capacity, the commission, following pressure from the european parliament, has committed to mobilise €100 million to purchase half a billion rapid tests to help member states. i therefore voted in favour of the agreement reached, as i consider that all the key requirements in the negotiations have been adequately met. it is now up to european governments to provide free testing as well.
in writing. facilitating free and safe movement within europe for work, leisure or family reasons is a key prerequisite for economic recovery, provided that this is done without endangering public health and safeguarding citizens' rights to non-discrimination and data protection. it is only on this basis that work has been done to improve a common legal framework in the short term, which will make it possible to have free, interoperable, compatible and verifiable certificates in the european union on vaccination status, test results and cure status. moving across the union, ending a fragmented and often chaotic situation of restrictive measures will be one of the objectives that the eu covid-19 certificate will help to achieve. the european institutions and the member states must also make a commitment to guarantee free testing and increase the capacity for producing and distributing vaccines, so that they can be equally and quickly available to all citizens, in order to avoid discriminatory situations.
in writing. we gave final approval to the eu digital covid test in the european parliament. the free movement and the full functioning of the schengen area must be restored. digital identity facilitates travel and also contributes to economic recovery. the certificate is valid in all member states and confirms that the person has been vaccinated, has a valid negative test result or has recovered from the disease. the certificate shall be used from 1 july. the qr-coded certificates will be issued by member states, free of charge to the public and available both digitally and on paper. we also stressed with other envoys that eu countries must ensure the availability of tests. to this end, the european commission is allocating eur 100 million from the eu emergency support facility to finance the purchase of tests for the issuance of a digital covid-19 certificate.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the state of play of the implementation of the own resources roadmap (2021/2739 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by expressing my gratitude to the 27 eu governments and national parliaments, which have approved the own resources decision at record speed. this allows the commission to kick—start next generation eu and its borrowing programme in line with the roadmap that the three institutions established in december. the introduction of new own resources, the second leg of the roadmap, would ensure that the union budget has the means necessary to cover the repayment needs until 2058. last july, the european council identified three new own resources, which this chamber endorsed and which were enshrined in the interinstitutional agreement of december last year. they will be based on the emissions trading system (ets), on a carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) and on a digital levy. the commission is preparing a proposal for amending the own resources decision plan for adoption on the 14 july, together with a number of other initiatives to tackle the twin green and digital transition. let me briefly update you on our preparatory work for each of the three proposals. first, the revision of the ets directive will reflect the more ambitious commitments of the ‘fit for 55’ package, offering a good pace for a new own resource. a minority share of the tax revenue should be devoted to the union budget for the repayment of next generation eu, while leaving the larger share to member states. to accelerate the decarbonisation of our economies, it is key to increase our ambitions to reduce greenhouse gas emitting activities. the commission is considering applying emission trading to other sectors, in line with the ‘polluter pays’ principle. at the same time, the fairness and political acceptability of such a measure will be duly taken into account. we need to avoid lower—income member states and lower—income households carrying a disproportionate share of the financial and social impact. second, the carbon border adjustment mechanism is also part of the climate package to be proposed in july. it will ensure that the price of imports mirrors the pricing of emissions for domestic products under the eu ets. hence, the cbam will address the risk of carbon leakage and support an increased global ambition to fight climate change. as its revenue would be collected at the eu border, it’s a natural candidate for eu own resources. finally, regarding a levy on digital activities, we are carefully assessing the interaction of a levy on digital activities and the developments of the oecd work on pillar one, which we support in view of reaching a global agreement imminently. the successful outcome of the g7 finance ministers meetings brings us closer to an unprecedented global agreement on corporate tax reform, so we must seize the opportunity to expand this consensus to all members of the g20 and all countries involved in the oecd’s inclusive framework. the commission will continue to contribute actively to these ongoing multilateral discussions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, binding agreements are to be respected and parliament will always be vigilant and demanding in this matter. we have reached agreement on the new own resources, on their introduction and on a road map for them. this is not just a matter of formality, commissioner, but a requirement for the future of the european union and for the protection, above all, of the younger generations. the introduction of own resources has always been advocated by us. it avoids the juste retour and i want my money back and avoids the distinction between taxpayers and net beneficiaries. but with the next generation eu, there's 390 billion euros of debt to pay off by 2058. and if now it's just interest, which is about 0.01% of the budget, after 2027 it will be about 10% of the budget annually to pay the amortization and interest of the 15 billion euro debt. this cannot be a burden for future generations. we can't have cuts in programs or funding. new revenue is required for the budget on a simple principle: those who do not pay must pay, those who benefit most from the internal market must be taxed. we are in favour of fair taxation and fair competition. so it is right that the digital giants contribute, and it is right that, in addition to contributing to the environmental and global policies of the european union on a global scale, there should be a market, today called the carbon market at the borders, and that the emission allowances should also be reviewed. all this is in the interinstitutional agreement. it is important, commissioner, that we read it, re-read it, apply it and pass it on to the ministers of each country. i would also like to conclude by saying that the structured dialogue must be respected, particularly by the european commission.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, in the last six or seven months, unprecedented decisions have been taken on own resources. first, with the agreement on the financial framework, in which we set out a route for introducing new resources at european level. then, with the recovery plan, with the issuance of joint debt and with the payment of part of that debt from these new own resources. and finally, the recent fantastic news from the g7, with a historic reform of the tax system and with that proposal of at least 15% corporate tax. in the european union we have been calling for a tax system of our own, fair and sustainable, for more than ten years. and it's true that until now, everything was an excuse: that it's not viable, that nobody wants it, that companies are going to leave. and it is good that now it seems that the tide is turning, not only because of the agreement we reached in the european union, but also because of the messages that are coming from the g7. and that's very good. but as far as we are concerned, we have an agreement with the commission and the council on new taxes at european level and on a timetable. in principle, before the end of this month, they should present the mechanism for adjustment at the border, a proposal for a digital tax, which after the g7 we do not know what it can be, and a modification of the emissions system. i understand that they want to evaluate the g7 proposal, but we cannot delay. agreements are meant to be kept and we're going to demand it.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this weekend the g7 reached a political agreement on the taxation of multinationals that could bring billions to the indebted economies. finally, we will make the large multinationals contribute in a fair way. and the reaction was unanimous. all of them. this is a major step towards finally having more tax justice. this is what every taxpayer wants: equal treatment in tax matters. it is no longer acceptable that amazon does not pay taxes on its turnover in europe. so the world is moving forward and we should obviously welcome it. however, i am waiting for the commission - which has been so active in these revolutions - to embrace them now. but at a time when the g7 is reaching an agreement, when the german foreign minister is solemnly announcing that he wants to end unanimity, when there is momentum to move forward on the taxation issue, what a surprise to hear, commissioner, that for our first political meeting, which is to take place this thursday, you will not be available and neither will the portuguese ambassador. finally, you say to yourself, as regards own resources: 'we are not going to waste our time discussing this with the meps, let the veto do its work of destruction.' i say no. that is not how we will meet our commitments. so, commissioner, i expect you to make every effort to ensure that europe does not sit back and wait for these revolutions, but plays its full part at the highest political level.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the proposal to set up own resources was put forward, the 27 member states voted. that's very good. but, commissioner, what i am not happy about is that we are already a little behind. there should have been a legislative proposal from the commission as early as june, and we are told that it will be in july. and i agree with mrs hayer that we need the commission to act, commissioner, so that we can move very quickly on this matter. as for the corporate taxation issue that has been raised by mr biden, i feel a kind of humiliation from the european union: it is always after the us proposes it that we try to put the pieces together. first, mr. biden had proposed a 21% minimum tax and we are slowing down the four irons - including france, by the way - to only 15%. that's a loss of 52 billion by taxing at 15 percent instead of 21 percent. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is now considering the financial transaction tax. we need to move forward on this. i see mr larrouturou in the chamber, who is dealing with this subject. it is essential that we take back control of this fair taxation. in conclusion, we have just experienced a period of terrible crisis. it was found that the richest people avoided paying taxes. the european union needs a fair tax system to finance a just transition.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr hahn, mr biden is ahead of the committee that is lagging behind. the council is also a major obstacle to fair taxation and the implementation of the own resources agreement. you signed an agreement with the european parliament and you must respect it in terms of both content and timetable. and you informed us yesterday that you would not be attending the scheduled meeting today of the dialogue that was to begin. we're off to a bad start. (speaking inaudibly)
mr papadimoulis, i would propose that you start from the very beginning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have signed an agreement with the council and the commission on the same resources with a timetable and we must unite to push for its implementation, to finance the european recovery fund, our economy, our welfare state, the digital and green transition. we must not accept as europeans that mr biden is ahead of the european union on taxation issues on the global corporate tax and on taxing the digital giants and the commission is lagging behind and the council is putting on the brakes. it is our responsibility, mr hahn, to send a message that europe continues to lead both in the climate transition and in the digital transition and in fair taxation. it is not possible for the internet giants to not pay taxes and for the wage earners and small and mediumsized enterprises to pay. this must change and parliament is united in this demand.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner hahn for coming to the european parliament this morning to discuss the implementation of own resources. own resources are very important for the future of the european union because this is the only way to ensure stable and predictable financing for the european union in the future. it is the only way to avoid that 27 heads of state and government negotiate, for days and for nights, 27 different national agendas without thinking about the european added value for us. own resources are also the best tool to repay the commitment in the context of next generation eu. we are now, rightly, after the corona pandemic, doing the biggest package of economic support ever done by the european union – eur 750 billion. but as responsible politicians we have to think who, when and how is also going to pay this back, and own resources are the best way to make sure that in the future the budget of the european union will not suffer and we will be able to repay next generation eu, and also continue supporting small and medium—sized enterprises, farmers, students, and researchers, etc. this is why an ambitious roadmap for the introduction of own resources is so important. thanks to our two rapporteurs of the european parliament, we managed to insert this into the interinstitutional agreement, and we now look forward to receiving from you the proposals on the revised emission trading system, the carbon border adjustment mechanism and the digital levy about which you spoke before. we fought a lot to have these by the end of june. we will have them in july. but please, commissioner, stick with us in making sure that all institutions respect the commitment and that these become operational on 1 january 2023.
we now continue with the debate on the commission statement on the state of play of the implementation of the own resources roadmap (2021/2739(rsp)).
mr president, on 12 february this house approved the €800 billion recovery and resilience facility, part of the next generation eu fund. objective of the fund: show solidarity with member states most affected by corona. the money will be raised by the commission on the capital market. the taxpayers of the member states are therefore guaranteed. the coverage consists in part of a series of new own resources: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the internal market. but that's not enough. what happens to the guarantees if a particular member state cannot pay its share? does the rest of the group take over that responsibility? there is already a vote in the commission to make this fund a permanent recovery fund. is this right? the taxpayer has a right to answers to these questions. i therefore expect that clarity will be provided quickly.
mr president, the community budget has been shrinking, particularly in the economic and social cohesion component. this is because some countries, which are not by chance the ones that benefit most from integration, want to pay less than they should. the so-called own resources are sold as the magic solution to please these countries, which thus pay less by seeking alternative sources of revenue, some say, without burdening taxpayers. this fallacious argument overlooks two fundamental things. first, any european union resource is, or can be, a national resource. even the fair taxation of some large companies, if it does not happen today, should happen, guaranteeing the indispensable revenues to the states and a relief from the tax burden on those who work. secondly, if cohesion and solidarity are not to be mere verbs, those who benefit most from integration must contribute most. this is a basic principle of justice, a principle which these so-called new own resources unfortunately call even more into question.
let me take the opportunity to thank the services for their help in dealing with this surprise interruption, and for helping to resolve it so quickly. of course the blood pressure was increasing and things got hectic, but i had the clear impression that everybody knew what they were doing. thank you very much for that. (applause)
mr president, my friends, on 7 april, joe biden announced his intention to introduce a minimum tax rate on the profits of large international companies. and on june 5th, just two months later, we applauded a first step of the g7. a deal that may not be enough the rate must rise in the next few years but a historic agreement in just two months. what about europe? what is europe doing to find more money for health, for the climate, for jobs? it was in 2011 that the barroso commission proposed the creation of a tax on speculation and, ten years later, it still does not exist. however, since february, negotiations have resumed with a view to reaching an agreement on enhanced cooperation by 30 june. there is no need for unanimity. but france is blocking. unfortunately, france is still blocking. but if we don't tax speculation, we'll have money to pay back the stimulus package, we won't need the pension reform that bruno le maire wants to do. we'd have more money for health, we'd have more money for climate and jobs. joe biden will go down in history as a leader who helped build a more just world. bruno le maire and emmanuel macron have only a few days left to show that they are not the defenders of the old world. i love my country, i love what jacques delors and other frenchmen have brought to europe, but i am ashamed today of the blocking of emmanuel macron and... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, the creation of the european union's own resources is yet another example of the unabashed opportunism of those who want to get rid of the treaties and install a federal system, thus using the economic crisis linked to covid-19 to advance this political agenda. i would nevertheless welcome the protectionist aspect of a number of these measures. if these tools are essential for our collective protection, in particular the carbon tax or the tax on the gafams - and our group voted for them - their proceeds must be paid back to the member states. for france, this must be deducted from its contribution to the eu budget. pending this clarification, we will be vigilant about the use of these funds. it would not be acceptable for them to be used for anything other than the recovery instruments needed today. it would be shocking, in particular, if they were intended for third countries, whatever the nature of the programme. let us not be mistaken: behind these manoeuvres there is a political project which is to enable the european union to wipe out the member states, the disembodied, technical and far from the realities of the brussels technocracy, which, in the commission's mind, supplant national interests. this dilution of national competences, which is the commission's obvious objective, is an issue which concerns the peoples. it is an ideology to which we are opposed because it takes decisions too far away from the democratic process which ensures that the interests of the people are taken into account. what you are presenting as progress is in fact a further erasure for the european nations.
mr president, madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, europe is bringing a lot of money to the territories thanks to this common loan. this is unprecedented. fifty years from now, historians and our grandchildren will remember this moment as the beginning of a genuine european budgetary union, as the beginning of a europe that is at last more political. but until then, it is absolutely essential to ensure that this money is well spent, because there is nothing worse than a failure of the recovery, because there is nothing worse than a failure to deliver on our promises for the climate, for jobs, for growth and for future generations. the aim is not to finance the construction of airports in the middle of the desert, just for the glory, and to please the construction companies and then leave them abandoned years later, for lack of passengers, as has happened in the past in some countries. no, no waste of it. we need to start a smart recovery, one that creates jobs, skills. so we, the elected representatives, who are obliged to watch the expenditure, who are obliged to protect the european people's wallet, we ask that the states devote 37% of their money to the climate, yes, but also that there is no other side of the projects that harm the environment. let's be consistent here. we also call for the necessary reforms to be put in place to end corruption, fraud and conflicts of interest in those states that have yet to take this step. we also ask, and i will be particularly vigilant, that no project, no measure be financed if it does not respect our values of pluralism, freedom of the press, the independence of the judiciary, respect for the rights of all and in particular of lgbti people. it would be totally unacceptable for europe to give even one euro to a project that would undermine our values. madam president, the europeans are watching us, and the eurosceptics are watching us too, absent from this house. what europe has done is bold and we will be judged on the results. let us make this great european recovery plan a complete success. and let us ask ourselves already: have we done enough to not fall behind china and the united states? the taboos are being lifted, so let's also start thinking about the additional needs.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our text on eu priorities at the un is strong. it is strong because it mentions the issues of climate change, human rights, ecological destruction and security. it is also strong because we support the united nations, the human rights council, the international criminal court. it is strong, because it once again reminds us of the importance of speaking with one voice as the european union at the un. but most of all, our text is strong, because he's not afraid to put his finger where it hurts. yes, we support the un. yes, we are for multilateralism and international cooperation. but that does not stop us from being critical, from pointing out what is wrong, what needs to be improved, what is unacceptable. it is unacceptable that since 1945 no woman has ever been secretary-general of the united nations. even more unacceptable is the sexual violence committed by our own peacekeepers against the civilian population in peacekeeping operations. the un and its member states must be able to carry out serious investigations, searches, punish the guilty, support the victims so that this never happens again. the un and the eu, which finance a huge part of peacekeeping operations, cannot, must not have a trembling hand when it comes to sexual violence within and by its own. thank you to the victims for speaking out. thank you to the journalists and ngos for reporting. now it is up to us, the institutions, to do our job.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what does the new approach 'europe in the world', the new financing instrument for european foreign and development policy of almost 80 billion euro, bring us? policies against hunger, human rights and sustainable development finally under one roof! this is an opportunity. this is a way of finally addressing the great global challenges that we have to face. and we know this: the big challenges will grow dramatically after covid-19. the biggest problem, next to climate change, will be dramatically widening inequality. we must fight them with purpose, because that is the only way we can become partners. commissioner, thank you for making this a matter of leadership. this is what we are asking of the commission and the member states. that is the demand we make of the european parliament, and we are doing it.
madam president, for how many years have we been calling for an integrated european policy towards our partners in the south? how many times have we said that there can be no security without development, and no development without security in countries in crisis? how often have we asked ourselves whether we are able to contribute to good governance, security and economic development of our partners at the same time? we have repeatedly recited this catechism of good intentions. 'global europe' can be an opportunity to put this into practice, provided we pay close attention. in particular, global europe should help to strengthen the security and defence capabilities of our partners. there are three conditions for this success. the first is to stop believing that development aid should not be mixed with security, which is still too often the case. the second is that 'global europe' coordinates with the european missions of the csdp, and in particular the european peace facility. thirdly, our parliament is playing its full role in monitoring the use of global europe funds. what we want are not speeches, but results.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, eur 80 billion is the figure that the european union is about to pay under the neighbourhood instrument renamed 'global europe'. the choice of this name is not trivial, as it clearly defines the globalist ideology underlying this project. 80 billion to spread democracy, human rights, good governance and international protection for refugees and migrants around the world. this speech echoes the messianism of george w. bush yesterday. it is not military, but it is the same form of neo-colonialism as that of the european union, which believes that it must impose its model on all the peoples of the world, whereas everything shows that it is now synonymous with weakness and erosion in the concert of nations. certain aspects of the use of these funds would certainly be commendable if they did not correspond to a poorly ordered charity. how can we make europeans understand that €80 billion of their tax money is going to be spent on often unrealistic goals? for example, asking countries to develop gender-sensitive policies is naïve to the point of ridicule. if we help third countries, let us demand in return effective counterparts, such as a fight against the immigration that overwhelms us, or that they accept the return of foreign criminals to their country of origin. these measures would be a good start. instead of thinking globally, the european institutions should first listen to the cry of the european people who do not want to die.
i am in favour of combining the previous instruments of external financing and hope that this will finally lead to the organisation and implementation of a policy that is targeted and not imaginary. what i would like to draw your attention to, however, is that despite the good wishes for the eradication of poverty, the promotion of democracy and human rights, which is in itself a good thing, this instrument and the instrument of pre-accession assistance are being used by countries such as turkey, for example, which systematically violates human rights, and democracy is out of the question. on the contrary, it is the dictatorship of erdogan, which you should be ashamed of, if anyone even remembers what that word means. i will now turn my attention to one eastern partnership country, and that is moldova. as you know, there is a large bulgarian community, which is concentrated in several areas, the largest is taraklia. there are established functioning institutions, promoting and preserving bulgarian culture, it is the center of the bulgarian there. the government of moldova is currently preparing an administrative-territorial reform which aims to optimise local public authorities and reduce the number of regions and municipalities. the working group on this reform does not include any representative of the bulgarian community, nor in taraklia, which is a clear sign of the intention of the central authorities to close this administrative region. by the way, it's high time that you pay attention to real rights, human and political, rather than imaginary ones, and i hope you do. i believe that is unacceptable in the light of the objectives of the instrument and i urge the european union to exercise all possible means to check the behaviour of the moldovan authorities towards the bulgarians in moldova.
madam president, today we are witnessing the official subordination of the european agenda and cooperation policies to the commercial, migratory and geopolitical interests of the european union, which have nothing to do with the objectives of fair and sustainable development. it is significant that we have discussed what percentage of european development aid can be allocated to migration control, when the logical thing would have been to make it clear that conditionality is simply inadmissible. the european union has finally assumed the coherence of development policies that ngos have been demanding for so many years. the problem is that with this instrument it is development policies that will have to be consistent with the rest of european external action, when the idea was just the opposite, which, by the way, says a lot and not a good thing about the subsidiary role of development policies in the european union.
madam president, the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument is a very important regulation. it includes the neighbourhood, which is fundamental to the european union and is also explicitly recognised in article 8 of the treaty on european union. politically, it seems clear to me that if the european union is to be an effective player on the global stage, it must first have the capacity to influence our neighbourhood. unfortunately, our neighbourhood, both in the east and in the south, is going through a very complex and difficult period at the moment. rather than a circle of friends based on common values, we find a circle of conflict. in any case, neighbourhood must remain a priority for the european union and therefore occupy a very prominent place in the instrument. i hope that the traditional two-thirds rule will be respected in the allocation of funds so that the new mediterranean agenda can be adequately funded. the instrument must be up to the ambitious objectives we set ourselves 25 years ago with the launch of the so-called barcelona process.
madam president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the work well done. having almost eur 80 billion at their disposal, the ndici will significantly contribute to the implementation of the sustainable development goals agenda 2030 and the objectives of the paris agreement worldwide. the ndici will also serve and promote the values and principles of the european union while ensuring more coherence and consistency among eu external policies. as ipa iii co-rapporteur, i wish also to thank you for paving the way for part of the agreement related to ipa, the most substantial ones being the governance aspect with delegated acts and scrutiny that parliament will have for the first time for both instruments. now we have a great platform and even greater responsibility to work on eradication of poverty, to support democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights, sustainable development and the fight against climate change. with this global instrument, the eu as a global player will be able to truly live up to its commitments in the world and vis-à-vis our partner countries.
madam president, this is brussels. good evening, strasbourg. the following are the results of my brief concluding reflections on this important matter. we can be proud of having created, despite the many obstacles, a coherent and progressive instrument which brings together foreign policy, geopolitical interests, the objective of development cooperation, but also the eradication of poverty, what mrs urpilainen just now very rightly called our 'global external relations tool'. now is the time to turn words and texts into action, because the implementation of this new tool is crucial and parliament has a significant role to play in this regard. i am looking forward to the political dialogue, which will begin next week, to monitor its implementation. it is essential that this dialogue be a genuine, concrete exchange that advances this tool, that it be a frank dialogue between the institutions and not a pre-established formal debate, as is unfortunately too often the case.
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner, the advantage of speaking last rather than at the beginning of the debate is that everything has been said. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues for the work we have done together, the commissioner for her constructive approach to the negotiations and also the presidency of the european council, which has enabled us to bring this negotiation to a conclusion. so, what about this instrument? three things are important. the first is consistency. it has been said, "yesterday, this instrument was divided, in the hands of many, with a lack of coherence". here we have a single instrument, which is called 'global europe' and which goes in the same direction. the second important element is visibility. europe is the leading european donor, and yet it is not known to be the leading european donor. this visibility is important on the international stage. i think that with this instrument we will be able to convince countries better to be our partners in this action. the third important point is, of course, the role of parliament: i would say support. we've talked a lot about control, but we know that when we work together, we work in the same direction. this is therefore the accompaniment of an extremely important instrument. as we have said, 80 billion euros is not nothing and it is actually part of foreign policy action. so these three things are extremely important to us. we often tend to oppose the various institutions. in this instrument, we will work together. we have started with the strategic dialogue, and i thank the members of the european commission for the work they have done. we are working on the delegated act and we will continue to work on budgetary aspects, for example. i wanted to make a small point in relation to the question of migration. i am glad that we have not included in this instrument the conditionality of development to the migration issue. not because it is an ideological issue, but simply because it would be wrong to orient our debates and our international actions around one and only one policy that is more about the interior of our policy, that is, how we should handle the migration issue, and to export this issue in relation to a sustainable development challenge, following the objectives of sustainable development. this does not mean that we will not work on migration issues: working on these issues is working on the root causes of migration. working hand in hand with our partner countries, not by beating them up, telling them what they have to do, but by working with them because they have the same concerns as us. a country that is depleting its intelligence, a country that is depleting its youth, a country that no longer has the possibility of feeding its population, is a country that is in difficulty, and therefore it is going against these difficulties, going to help these countries, that will make us achieve a win-win goal with all the populations. so i think that in this instrument, what we are looking at is this win-win aspect between europe and its partner countries. i would like to thank all those who have helped us to achieve this. now, of course, we have to work.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear colleagues, many thanks for the interesting debate. i think that it clearly demonstrates our shared determination that the instrument should deliver lasting impact for our partners, but also for europe. as i said in my introduction, our next step is to turn the promise of the new instrument into a reality. we are currently working very hard to develop geographical and thematic cooperation programmes and i’m very excited by the extra potential offered by the team europe initiatives and team europe approach. we are currently developing over 150 team europe initiatives at national, regional and global level. we are setting a solid basis for respecting the spirit and letter of this instrument and the spending commitments. we will continue consulting closely with civil society, but also other important stakeholders and particularly organisations representing youth and women. we will also work with local authorities, the private sector, our multilateral and bilateral development partners and other stakeholders, both here and in partner countries. i really look forward to parliament’s continued engagement in implementation of ndici-global europe and i personally count on your support to bring success in this new approach. our unity makes our strength. thank you very much for this conversation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 9 june 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the neighbourhood instrument and the international cooperation and development instrument will revolutionise the way the union's external action is financed, by bringing together the 10 existing eu instruments, as well as the european development fund, which is currently outside the eu budget. by combining these instruments, we will create a simplified and more transparent financing mechanism, under which the same monitoring procedures will apply to the whole of the union's development cooperation. the instrument will have three main pillars: geographical, thematic and rapid response. this will allow us to adapt our actions to the specific needs of the regions concerned and to better respond to rapidly evolving and changing global challenges and emergencies. it is very important that the regulation refers to the possibility of suspending aid in the event of a violation by a third country of the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and that union funds may not support activities that may lead to human rights violations. such records send a clear message that human rights, as well as values such as freedom and democracy, are at the heart of the eu's external action and must be respected. the european parliament's role in this financial perspective will be enhanced, for example in defining the main directions of the instrument. the commission will also be obliged to inform parliament before using the reserves.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on employment and social affairs on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european social fund plus (esf+) and repealing regulation (eu) no 1296/2013 (06980/2/2021 – c9—0195/2021 – 2018/0206(cod)) (rapporteur: david casa) (a9—0197/2021).
the rapporteur. madam president, and thank you colleagues, because today we can say that we have arrived. we have come after many years that are leading us to have the last vote god willing, tomorrow. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). for more than 60 years, the esf has been the european union's main tool for investing in people. money that helps millions of people every year. concrete and tangible help, and there is no doubt that this money is good for making a very positive impact on the lives of european citizens. and now, we have a bigger and expanded esf that includes everything we think is important. i say all of those because all the shadow rapporteurs agreed that this esf should include the fead. it also includes easi, and we also have to meet all the objectives of the youth guarantee initiative. the esf+ which, with a new structure, will combine the previously separate funds. why is that? to give more value to people, families, workers, young people, children, the elderly, people with special needs and employers. of course, in the negotiations, parliament's priorities were clear. we wanted to ensure that those most in need could not be excluded. we wanted to make sure that spending in certain sectors is secured, that there is enough money for young people, that there is enough money to be used for those children living in poverty and to fight social exclusion. when we started our negotiations we certainly did not know that this pandemic would erupt. and the social and work challenges it brought with it. in the past, the esf has always been crucial, always, but more and more it is needed today to help those who have lost their jobs, to help those who have lost their jobs to have the training they want to re-enter the world of work, so that the vulnerable, not to be left out, but to be reintegrated. to help the most needy in their societies, who have found it more difficult to buy even the most basic things. and so, our work in this period could not have been more important and relevant, and that will bear fruit. and today, i am pleased to tell you that our efforts have been successful. parliament, naturally thanks to a strong and united negotiating team, achieved the desired results. our priorities have been achieved, in the interest of all citizens of the european union, in particular, we have achieved these objectives. parliament ensured that those most in need were not excluded. we have ensured that 3% of the esf+ funds are used for this purpose, and the amount is not changed. we have ensured that a quarter of the esf+ funds are used to promote social inclusion. we have ensured that all member states secure and allocate sufficient resources to address youth unemployment, child poverty, with minimum amounts used in the most naturally affected member states. we have ensured that there is enough money to assist stakeholders and civil society. but we also understood the importance of being prepared to adapt in crisis situations. here too we wanted to find a balance. to make it possible to spend money where it is needed most, with all the safeguards. and the draft we are going to vote on reflects these objectives. finally, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs with whom i have worked, and i would like to say that i have never worked in my 17 years here in a team as united as i do in reporting. i would naturally like to thank commissioner schmit, without whose interventions we would not have been able to reach this agreement, which we will be voting on tomorrow. but i would also like to thank the council, the croatian presidency, the german and the portuguese presidencies. i also thank the technical team from the administration for their impeccable work. of course, and not least, to my assistants, because, of course, they had to work with me all the time and, often, for long hours. we can indeed, my friends, be proud of what we are going to do for the next seven years. the esf+ will provide major support to member states to address the crisis brought on by the pandemic. to tackle unemployment, to provide protection for a fair society, and to workers who are ready to adapt to an environmental and digital economy. we will implement the principles of the european pillar of social rights. so, colleagues, i urge you to vote in favour tomorrow and, from the bottom of my heart, to thank those who worked with me.
member of the commission. – madam president, because he finished by thanking everybody, i will start by thanking the rapporteur, mr david casa, and the parliament’s negotiating team for what has been achieved, for the very constructive work throughout sometimes more difficult negotiations. but, you know, you forget how difficult negotiations were once you look at the result. and the result, i think, is extremely positive. it’s a good compromise that was found between co—legislators. it is now being put to the vote and i trust that you will confirm the adoption of the fund at this crucial moment. indeed, today more than ever – and you already insisted on the different aspects the social fund has to support – we need to put people first and centre, both to succeed in the green and digital transitions and to shape a recovery that is fair, inclusive and sustainable. we will simply tackle these important challenges if we really do take people along. at the porto social summit, the eu leaders, the european institutions – and particularly also the parliament – social partners and civil society reaffirmed their pledge to work towards a strong social europe. the implementation of the european pillar of social rights action plan is the right way to achieve this goal. but, also in this context, the adoption of the european social fund plus (esf+) represents an important step in this direction and, i would say, an indispensable tool to achieve this goal. it is vital that we can now programme concrete measures under the fund with legal certainty in order to facilitate the transitions, support the most vulnerable and contribute to the social recovery of europe by creating a positive dynamic towards upward social and economic convergence within and between member states. the final agreement reached by co—legislators is indeed balanced. it is a credible response to the economic and social challenges we are currently facing. as you did already, rapporteur, let me also highlight also a few key aspects. all member states will invest 25% of their esf+ resources in social inclusion measures and, in addition, all member states will use 3% to address material deprivation. this important outcome was driven by the european parliament’s negotiating team and is the right response to the challenges that the pandemic has indeed amplified. it is an imperative to tackle poverty, inequalities and social exclusion in order to avoid permanent scars from the pandemic crisis and also to reduce pre-existing long—term negative trends in this relation. i also emphasise that the agreed text ensures that sufficient funding will be allocated to the key target groups who have been disproportionately affected by the covid—19 pandemic: children at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and especially young people in search of finding their place in the labour market and finally in society. this is a very important signal that we are giving. we want to invest in children and youth to build fairer and more resilient economies and societies. as stated in the porto declaration by heads of state and government – and i quote this, because this is a very strong commitment – ‘we will prioritise action to support young people who have been very negatively affected by the covid—19 crisis. young people represent an indispensable source of dynamism, talent and creativity for europe’. the commission will do its utmost to foster this dynamism, these talents and this creativity by using the european social fund plus resources. this is also why the commission stands by its two statements to do the utmost to ensure that all member states shall programme an appropriate amount of their esf+ national resources to tackle child poverty and to support youth employment. the esf+ must effectively contribute to the implementation of both the child guarantee and the youth guarantee. work is already ongoing in that regard within the bilateral negotiations on the programmes between the member states and the commission. this is absolutely key to establish a strong and inclusive recovery. finally, i would like to highlight the importance of the contribution of social partners and civil society. the negotiations have strengthened their involvement and ensured sufficient funding. it is by involving these actors that we can reach the best results. the european social fund plus is our main tool to invest in people. this is the best answer we can give to the challenges we are facing with the ongoing transitions, and i know i can count on you and on this parliament, and look forward to continued fruitful cooperation. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by congratulating my friend david casa on his report and thanking all those who have worked constructively to achieve this result. it has rightly been mentioned by david casa and nicolas schmit: it's a result that can be seen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because the truth is that we were already in a complicated situation in some places before the pandemic and therefore before the worst economic crisis in the history of the european union, in terms of tackling long-term unemployment. we have had some worrying developments in youth unemployment. and no one really believes that this pandemic will make the problems smaller or stay at the same level, but of course the problems will get bigger. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the esf+ in its present form is therefore timely. he's got the right focus. i think it is a very important signal - also with regard to the youth guarantee, also with regard to the fight against child poverty in the european union - and that is why i am calling very specifically for its approval tomorrow. it is an important step towards a more social europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached the end of our work on the european social fund plus after years of difficult negotiations. of all the structural funds, the esf+ has the most important mission: to achieve the objective of a fairer society, to create quality employment, to support lifelong learning, to promote equal opportunities, to eradicate poverty and to provide assistance to people with disabilities. we had to fight starting from the child guarantee, the great innovation that our group, the socialists and democrats, has proposed since 2014 and that is now a reality. all member states will have to invest adequate resources in its implementation, while those with child poverty above the european average will have to devote at least 5% of the social fund to this purpose. for italy, my country, for example, this means eur 650 million of european co-financing to give children in need effective and free access to essential services. we are talking about education, early childhood care, schooling and activities, health care, at least one healthy meal a day, decent housing and a balanced diet. today there are 18 million children in europe living in poverty. this is an unacceptable figure which we must eradicate completely and definitively. we also had to fight to defend the fead programme which provides material aid to the most needy. just look at how the pandemic has made the lines at the poor people's canteens look so long. it's not just the homeless who need help with a hot meal, but more and more people. the defence of the fead has been an impassable red line, a necessary and obligatory act of social justice. finally, we had to fight to ensure that the fund would meet the needs of a changing world. we have asked for and got an increase in funding for the youth guarantee, we have strengthened the tools for lifelong learning and digital skills, we have made the easi programme for social innovation more able to exploit local projects. i would therefore like to thank our rapporteur, mr david casa, commissioner nicolas schmit and the portuguese presidency for their joint commitment to this regulation. i think with our work we can say we really added something extra. a real plus for the new social fund, which has been helping european citizens with concrete programmes for 65 years. the tangible expression of the social europe which we are inspired by and which we would like to strengthen more and more.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that our parliament is called upon to formally approve the political agreement reached on the european social fund plus (esf+). the agreement will provide the union with a renewed and ambitious instrument for building a more social, resilient and inclusive europe. i welcome the enhanced social inclusion dimension through the integration of the european fund for the most deprived into the new esf+, especially as the minimum share of esf+ resources that member states will have to spend on supporting the most deprived has been raised to 3%. this decline, which is a minimum and comes in addition to the 25% in favour of social inclusion, is extremely important in the context in which we are living, with poverty increasing and food aid and basic material assistance becoming more and more necessary. in addition, this renewed esf+ will be a key instrument to support youth employment, in particular by implementing the european youth guarantee. special attention should be paid to neets, young people who are neither students, trainees nor in employment. it would be good to find a new name for them, commissioner, because i think it must be terrible to be called 'ni', 'ni', 'ni'. and that number jumped to 13.7 percent in 2020, in one year. so it was vital that member states allocate an appropriate amount to actions to promote their employment. with this agreement, the union has a powerful tool for the period 2021-2027 to help emerge gradually from the crisis and to respond to the major challenges of a transition to a more digital and climate-neutral economy, leaving as few of our citizens as possible on the sidelines. i hope that a very large majority will come together to support it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the growing social divide is one of europe’s biggest challenges today. over 20% of europeans are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. that is more than 92 million people in europe. every day, also directly here in front of the european parliament, we can see people living in the streets without shelter. but poverty and social exclusion cannot be understood with facts and figures alone. they shape lives. from stagnant wages, deteriorating mental health, bills that cannot be paid, and indeed people living without a roof over their heads. and the coronavirus has exacerbated all of these issues. children and youth are the ones that are suffering the most. for a better future for them, but for a better future for everyone in the european union, we must be strong in solidarity. we must invest in opportunities, in fairness and in social justice. and the european social fund is one of the answers, with its social investment of eur 88 billion for solidarity and social justice across and within borders. and we’re investing in children and young people so that they have the same chances, no matter where they come from and no matter who their parents are. bringing people, especially women, back into jobs with decent wages and supporting the most marginalised people to create the conditions for a dignified life for all: that is the europe i want and fight to live in. and let me finish by thanking everyone, the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, for the great work. i think we have really shown that, if we are together as one voice, unified in the debates with the council and the commission, we can have very strong outcomes. so i think this european social fund is also a great success of the european parliament as a whole.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union calls itself social, but in reality it serves globalism and ultra-liberalism. not only does it boast of strengthening the structural funds and expensive stimulus plans with money that is not its own but that of the contributing states, but it also makes the use of these funds conditional on compliance with the so-called structural reforms, that is to say the continuation of austerity policies which have plunged the member states, and more particularly our country, into a disastrous situation. the covid-19 crisis has dramatically exposed the undignified state of our hospitals and their staff. and it's not unreasonable to think that this won't be the last pandemic of the 21st century, and that our health care systems and our freedoms aren't finished being challenged. nor are workers protected by your policy of submerging migration, which the european social fund, which is the subject of this report, will help to finance. my dear colleagues, we in the european union are not waiting for yet another social fund, but for it to end the old free trade schemes and let our nation states manage their social policy as they see fit.
mr president, the projects supported by the european social fund+ bring real improvements in people's lives and opportunities. from early childhood education, it focuses on training young people to open the doors to the world of work. i congratulate you on the agreement at second reading, and the fidesz delegation in the european parliament will be happy to support it. in hungary, i can mention the safe start children's home system as a good example: there are children's homes in 150 places across the country, where specialists help young children under 3 years of age in a playful way in early development, in order to prepare them for kindergarten and later school life. the key to the success of the programme is to involve parents actively and to provide them with the support they need.
the honourable member, the honourable commissioner schmit, will be presenting the report. i am very pleased that today we are in the final act of adopting the european social fund plus, which will combine and build on the resources previously dispersed in the different funds. investing in green and digital, in transforming our economy, is very important, but without investing in people, it's not going to happen. the economic transformation we have been planning for years has had to be brought forward by the crisis and, of course, it also presents us with a number of challenges. the fund, which will be the leading instrument in investing in people and will contribute to financing the implementation of the principles of the european pillar of social rights, therefore comes at the right time. it will help to build a more social and inclusive europe and support countries in dealing with the crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic. the member states must do everything possible to ensure that people do not live in poverty, with the help of european funds. the fund will thus support the most vulnerable in our society who suffer from job losses, provide investment in young people who have been particularly affected by the socio-economic crisis, and also address child poverty, providing food and basic material assistance to the most vulnerable. the european social fund plus is therefore a fund for people. and thank you to colleague david casa for a job well done.
mr president, the chatter about money has in recent years threatened to dismiss job coaches in the netherlands. the rutte iii government was not prepared to extend successful projects co-financed by the european social fund, which invests in people who are far from the labour market. that is why i am glad that we are voting this week on the new esf plus fund, because that fund has set aside money to invest in people for the next seven years, almost 100 billion. money to help young people get an education or a job. money to fight against child poverty. money to invest in vulnerable people who are on the sidelines of the labor market. the differences in society have become larger rather than smaller over the past year as a result of the pandemic, and i am therefore pleased that the esf plus gives us the opportunity to address those differences. i would like to conclude by making a call to the negotiators at the formatation table. if the esf plus fund runs out in the netherlands, make sure that all those wonderful projects helping people with a distance from the labour market to find a job are not abruptly stopped.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this esf+ is good news. what better way to show that europe is providing additional protection in this covid crisis than by strengthening social assistance? this protection tells a different story about europe. it is a story of a europe that aims to reach out to the regions and the state that neglect inclusion programmes and i know of those who put aside certain programmes for ideological reasons. the member states will now have to respect minimum thresholds to support young people, as required by the youth guarantee. they will have to make a better contribution to the employment of young people in integration. the fight against poverty and the increase in funds for the poorest have been victories, especially thanks to environmentalists. finally, with this esf+, we are winning the battle to make aid conditional on respect for the rule of law and the charter of fundamental rights. no aid for discriminatory programmes, no aid for exclusionary programmes: this is a tool that contributes to a more social, more inclusive and more protective europe. thank you for this job.
madam president, to think of democracy for the european citizens is to give a new dimension to the institution which represents them. as a co-legislator, parliament has been elevated to the status of an influencer, but it cannot even be said to be a good controller. how can we give the european people confidence when we, the parliamentarians, are unable to shed light on dark areas? when european citizens demand accountability, we owe them results through work in committees of inquiry, whose prerogatives must be in line with those of our national parliaments. as a carer, i know the importance of the role of the creation of committees of inquiry, especially in the tragic situation we are in, where those responsible for certain choices must be heard. (ladies and gentlemen, i would like you to speak, but it is very unpleasant.) i have a special thought for the families who are grieving the loss of their loved ones during this pandemic. they want answers about the failures of their governments and management, which deserve to be heard, analyzed and criticized. madam, i would like to touch your heart and raise the voice of these unjust mourning by reiterating my request for a parliamentary committee of inquiry co-sponsored by epsu on these mourning in ehpad. the silent sound of death must echo through these walls. we must learn from the commissions of inquiry. madam minister, give us the means.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to see you here, as if you were a committee on night fishing. it's always fun. it is 8 june, world oceans day, and let us say again, as commissioner sinkevičius says, the green deal cannot be totally green if there is not a little blue in it. in the face of climate change, three key words: anticipation, mitigation, adaptation. anticipation: anticipating climate change is obviously about mobilising science to predict the consequences, making the right decisions for better adaptation and effective mitigation policies. data collection and research are the pillars of this. mitigation: fisheries and aquaculture must be supported in their transition. it goes without saying, but it's better when you say it. healthy, productive ecosystems, replenished fish stocks are all ways to store carbon. it's the blue carbon. the biological carbon pump depends on the state of the global ecosystem. adaptation, of course: we have to adapt to the inevitable consequences of climate change. thousands of our fellow citizens are impacted. we must first of all think of those coastal areas - as you mentioned, commissioner - at the beginning of the rise in sea levels. but while the green deal is ambitious in this area, the common fisheries policy is not yet ambitious enough. let us review our approach to fish stocks. a reformed common fisheries policy taking account of climate change will be the key to accompanying...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this debate as an opportunity to talk a little bit about aquaculture, because i think we are missing a historic meeting. since 2014, a major event in human history, more than half of the fish consumed worldwide has been from aquaculture products. and what is the share of european aquaculture in all these products? only 1.23% of the time. a few days ago, i was in the berry - beautiful region in central france - meeting with aquaculture farmers. they can't take it anymore. they are now repeating the gestures that have been practiced for years, decades, centuries, since the middle ages by the monks who built these magnificent landscapes, these ponds that, in france and throughout europe, have long fed men. and today they are regarded as criminals, as delinquents, guilty of all dangers, suspected of all wrongdoing, because they continue to preserve, through their daily work, these exceptional landscapes, which are obviously the key to all our successes. in the face of climate change, in the face of climate disruption, these ponds, these ecosystems, ensure that there is water in the summer and prevent landscapes from turning into swamps in the winter. in the face of the food shortages that could be looming tomorrow, in the face of the risk of excessive pressure on marine ecosystems, aquaculture is the major development area on which we must bet. for this reason, we must also trust those who do, those who know, those who maintain this millenary know-how by which we could have been the pioneers of an aquaculture that truly respects life. otherwise, if we fail to protect what we have been given, then we will be condemned to depend on imported aquaculture which we know does not respect the basic conditions for growing this living thing which is fish, the product of salt water and fresh water, the fish we will need to feed those who will follow us. it's time to realize that this appointment is ahead of us and to seize it with them.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, mrs von der leyen, mr michel, throughout our continent and beyond, authoritarianism is growing and democracy is faltering. lukashenko's act of piracy against an opponent and his partner is the latest warning of a deeply disturbing trend. the european union has fortunately condemned the behaviour of the belarusian regime and imposed sanctions, albeit insufficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. it is time to show the same firmness in the face of the unprecedented spread of authoritarian, freedom-threatening and hateful ideologies within the european union itself. in hungary, orbán is challenging justice and seeking to assume full power. in poland, the pis harasses lgbti people and wants to ban abortion. in austria, the government establishes a register of the muslim community. in slovenia, a trump-obsessed prime minister wants to censor the press and opposition parties. in spain, our friends from podemos are receiving death threats from the far right and bullets in their homes. in my own country, france, the country of human rights, the government is passing laws that stigmatize muslims and impunity for police violence. in france, the president is still being attacked by a follower of the news media, and a far-right youtuber is staging the abject and chilling murder of jean-luc mélenchon's voters. the far right is advancing in all european countries and its racist, sexist, homophobic and liberty-threatening agenda is already beginning to be implemented. everywhere, the fascist danger is rising and the dikes are breaking. and you let it go. this silence is not only cowardly, it's complicit. this inaction is not only regrettable, it is culpable. the very foundations of our democracies are being challenged, and you prefer to look the other way. because, as in history, some will always prefer hitler to the popular front. so i am issuing a solemn warning from the european parliament. do something! remember the words of pastor niemöller: "when the nazis came for the communists, i said nothing, i was not a communist. when they locked up the social democrats, i didn't say anything, i wasn't a social democrat. when they came for the unionists, i didn't say anything, i wasn't a unionist. when they came for me, there was no one left to protest. then wake up before no one else is able to protest.
madam president, i would like to add a few nuances to what my colleague, manon aubry, said. if we look collectively at what we have been through together, it is clear that we have made giant leaps in a few months on many subjects that we never thought we could do in several decades. in the face of the urgency of the health and environmental crisis we are experiencing, the european union has shown itself up to the task on the recovery plan, on covax, on the climate law that we have collectively voted. let us be proud of the ecology, the sanitation, the economy, the model that is being copied all over the world. the european union has shown the way. let's make this right. let's take a look at it, though. this european union has established itself as a real power. but on the geopolitical front, i agree with my colleagues who have spoken before: there is still work to be done. we obviously have a lot to learn from this crisis in belarus. without firmness, european power is nothing; without the collective, our sanctions are ineffective; without diplomatic coordination, our diplomacy is powerless. it is obviously unacceptable to be able to hijack a plane 200 km from our borders, and it is unacceptable to have the european agenda dictated by a dictator who is not afraid of us when we impose a few sanctions. it is also disheartening to see that the first european sanctions against lukashenko started as early as 2004, to which were added in 2020 more restrictive sanctions after a rigged electoral process. finally, a hijacking of an airliner has led us to tighten up the sanctions, and our european colleagues are also paying the economic consequences. we have seen it and we are still debating it today. the events in belarus show that there has never been a greater need for solidarity in the face of russia's anti-democratic plans. i agree with president weber that we need european clarification on our relations with russia, and we need to reassess our sanctions and coordination policies. this is the condition for european democracy and diplomacy.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, the latest council conclusions signal the will to accelerate the ecological transition. and of course, we all agree with that. but we live in an open world, an open world which has been desired for years by european policy in particular, and by our trade policy in particular. a world in which the eu accounts for only 8% of carbon emissions. if the ecological transition is to set ourselves increasingly complicated rules without bringing our trade policy into line with this environmental requirement, then it is doomed to failure. today, those who work in europe already meet the most demanding standards in the world and they look on in disbelief as we impose even more complicated standards on them, while, for example, signing an agreement with china. since the 1990s, the european union has cut its carbon emissions by 23%, china has tripled them, not just because they are increasing their production, but because we have delegated the task of producing to them. and basically, we are not in a position today to solve the climate problem on our own if we do not make our market a lever for this transition, which we call our wish. this is a major challenge. if we don't do this work, if we continue to be shortsighted and just set ourselves more and more complicated rules, then we will have carbon and we will have unemployment. and it is in the face of this tragedy that we find ourselves today, forced to respond by moving, quickly now, on this much-needed carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the g7 meeting approaching, followed by the united states-european union summit, europe has never in its history been so unimportant on the international scene. this worldview, guided by the notion that the nations of europe are merely a protectorate of the united states, is not adapted to the challenges of our time, even though the united states is and will remain our ally and friend. this attitude of submission makes us embrace the anti-russian obsession of our american friends, whereas geographical, economic and demographic realities should make us realistic about a renewed partnership. moreover, to try to portray the european union as an international interlocutor when the interests of the member states themselves are so divergent is at best a utopia, at worst a historical tragedy. diplomacy is the prerogative of nations. the european union is only one institution. france, with its overseas possessions, its nuclear weapons and its seat on the un security council, can and must have a global policy. the cooperation of the european nations must not mean their disappearance, especially in a sovereign field such as diplomacy.
madam president, the decision of the finance ministers of the g7 countries to back a major package of global corporate tax reform is significant, making agreement at the oecd on this issue look very likely. the interests of small, as well as large, countries need to be taken into account in any deal, including legitimate tax competition. however, this topic has been discussed many times in this house and will be again. so i welcome instead the upcoming eu—us summit and particularly welcome the comments made by president joe biden in relation to the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. boris johnson needs to realise that not implementing the commitments that he took in december has ramifications beyond our borders. i agree with president biden that the northern ireland protocol is a key apparatus in maintaining peace upheld by the good friday agreement, and applaud his statement that a significant trade deal between the us and the uk will be impaired if commitments on the protocol are not honoured. boris would do well to remember that joe biden is fiercely proud of his irish heritage. now the chickens have come home to roost. mr johnson and lord frost seek to blame anyone and everyone in order to avoid the responsibility of their decisions. not on, not acceptable, now or ever. honour your commitments, boris.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as gabriel zucman, the director of the european tax observatory, has perfectly summed up, the latest agreement on the g7 is both historic, unsatisfactory and promising. this was a historic event, as for the first time, member states agreed on a minimum tax rate; because for the first time, there is potentially a barrier against all these forces of incipience and tax evasion. inadequate, because 15% cannot be enough. in view of the race to the bottom in the last few decades, we must go further, at least to 21%, and it would be dangerous even to keep this rate at 15%. promising, because nothing but national egotism or lack of political will can stop us from raising that rate. promising, especially because the united states is finally back at the negotiating table, and not just any way: with democratic, ecological, economic, social and fiscal ambition. let us use this favourable balance of forces that we have been waiting for so long to move towards more progress. it goes even beyond the european union and the united states. this is potentially a paradigm shift.
madam president, commissioner, secretary of state, fellow democrats, there are some on this continent who are calling into question the democratic principles that drive us. montesquieu must be turning in his grave, at a time when we are allowing autocratic apprentices to undertake treacherous reforms, designed to destroy any form of counter-power. it's a shame. it's a serious matter, so i'm charging you. i accuse the ultra-conservatives in this parliament and in their countries of undermining centuries of democratic construction. by playing unanimously, they escaped sanctions and condemned the union to inaction, the same inaction that led the peoples to feel abandoned. but now, ladies and gentlemen, a minority can no longer prevent us from touching them in the pocket: we voted for it! so, commissioner, our message is clear: either the commission defends our democracies or we will take it to court.
mr president, what i had hoped to come out of the porto summit were concrete legislative proposals on how we’re finally going to construct a truly social europe. what we got in reality were a lot of empty promises, and this at the moment where the covid crisis is tackling our vulnerable groups the hardest. promises, dear commissioner, will not pay their bills. we need to combat poverty. we need quality jobs and decent wages. we need to invest in education, in health and in child care. i’m also deeply concerned poland and hungary managed to erase the term ‘gender equality’ from the final porto declaration. this is yet another example of the backlash against women’s and lgbtqi rights that we should never accept in our european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the porto compromise was forgotten before it was even written. that's the sad truth. i would like to take one of the objectives that the european union has set for 2030 as an example: to reduce by 15 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. a 2019 le monde article estimated that there are between 4 and 5 million undocumented people in europe, a number that is steadily increasing due to repeated migration crises. the expulsion policies are struggling to keep pace, due to a lack of political will. behind the grand declarations, the reality of europeans, and the french in particular, continues to deteriorate. against all the goals you set, the migrant camps are growing, while entire neighborhoods of our countrymen are sinking into poverty. denmark has made this observation. by applying a firm policy on immigration, the danish social democrats explain that it is not possible to have a strong social model at the same time as a strong migratory pressure. while the european commission is acting as if it were shocked, this country is telling us a simple truth. if our danish friends understand this, more and more french people are also understanding it. rather than a summit in porto whose failure is written in advance, 2022 will be the occasion in france to make a much better compromise, that of defending our borders and our social model.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ana paula zacarias, statements and proclamations are important, but they are of little or no use if they do not give rise to concrete actions that translate into positive outcomes for people. if there are no actions, if there are only proclamations, expectations will not be met and the confidence of the european citizens will be destroyed. there are contradictions i would like to highlight. competence in the field of education and in the field of poverty is national. we have set european targets. where are the targets, the national targets? madam secretary of state, what is portugal's national target for combating poverty? when we say that at european level we are going to lift 15 million european citizens out of poverty, that is the sum of the targets of each member state. it is necessary, even for the sake of transparency and in order to achieve the objectives, that these targets per member state be very clear. in addition, we also need regional targets. if we look, for example, at the national recovery and resilience plan of portugal, it only has measures and actions for the large metropolitan areas, leaving out the other less populated regions, in terms of fighting poverty. i therefore draw attention to the need for targets for the member states and also for targets per region.
madam president, with three quantified social objectives to be achieved by 2030, i would like to believe that the porto summit will be able to correct the lack of quantified objectives in the social recovery plan. it is about protecting against social crises, but also about making social europe a reality by supporting the ecological transformation of our societies. for porto's ambitions to be realized, the software must be changed. public spending must support social investment in the green economy and guarantee the enjoyment of social rights for all in europe. it is time to make upward social convergence a reality of the european project. to achieve this, the social dimension can no longer be held hostage by the budgetary dimension. it is therefore time to put an end to tax competition between member states and to revise the rules of the stability pact.
madam president, the porto summit was supposed to mark a social turning point. four years it has been four years since the gothenburg summit in 2017 that we have been waiting for a social summit to take place. the covid social crisis had happened here. we could expect ambitious announcements, which were up to the challenge. well, no, i won't. first, the few objectives set are not enough. for example, on the reduction of the number of poor people, the european union proposes to reduce the number of poor people by 15 million, when there are more than 100 million. secondly, there were missing topics, such as housing, whereas millions of europeans are no longer able to pay their rent. and then, to top it all off, we saw a spectacle of hypocrisy, in which the main actor is emmanuel macron, who is a bit of dr jekyll and mr hyde, who is the socialist chant in porto, strasbourg and brussels, while in france he is pursuing policies of social breakdown. europeans deserve better than that. it's an emergency. we need action! it is no longer enough to declare good intentions.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! we're slowly getting back to normal, especially with the progress of vaccination. unfortunately, the process of rebuilding the entire economy is a more complex process, and we have a long way to go to get back on the right track of sustainable growth. this is also true of - and perhaps even more so of - labour markets. in the wake of the pandemic, the european union has introduced an unprecedented array of innovative measures and instruments to protect our citizens from the economic crisis that follows lockdowns. sure has protected 32 million jobs in the union, so we can clearly say that the programme has worked. but his role is slowly coming to an end, and it's time to move on to rebuilding. building a future-proof, competitive economy will require investing in new jobs and in equipping our citizens with the right skills. i am pleased that the concrete and ambitious goals proposed in the pillar of social rights have received broad support from the social partners at the porto summit. and i hope that they will also be fully involved in implementing them. it is up to all of us, the european union and the member states, local authorities and ngos, to create the right climate and framework to stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation while maintaining solidarity.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the past year we have been living through an unprecedented crisis. the summit in porto was therefore expected and indispensable. it is indeed time to move forward to a new stage in the development of a social europe. the pandemic has proven that our young people are particularly affected. one of the main reasons is that they lack opportunities for training. the may social summit focused on education and skills, which must be at the heart of our policy. the world is changing and new skills will be required for the new generations. 65% of children entering primary school today will be in a profession that does not yet exist. this is therefore a major challenge we have to face. the development of digital technology and the environmental transition we are experiencing today will significantly change the jobs of tomorrow and we need to prepare for this very quickly. the jobs of today are therefore not the jobs of tomorrow. we must prepare for and invest in our future, in the future of our youth, through training, vocational training, apprenticeship and lifelong learning.
madam president, there is no doubt that the european union has achieved enormous social achievements in its history, achievements which are comparatively greater and more superior than those of all the others put together. but we who really love the european union are consciously in the european union and want this structure which is also our home, our family, to go further. we want a strong europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for us, there is no such thing as a strong europe when none of our young people can find work. for us, a strong social europe means that everyone will have the same and substantial, upgraded, quality level of education and health. the social europe we want is the europe that reaches every european citizen, in every corner of the european union. it is well known that the island regions have been irreparably affected by the pandemic and we expect this social europe to go that far. at the same time, however, i would like to point out that social europe has not yet reached 200,000 european citizens, european refugees, citizens in my own country, cyprus, for which until now, despite my continuous and intense efforts, there has been no social support for all those who have been displaced for 46 years by the turkish invader, and the paradox is that the turkish invader who drove these european refugees away receives funding from the european union. i would ask you, commissioner, to really see this great social deficit and to give a special feeling and support to this refugee world in cyprus.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for your comments, criticisms, suggestions and, for most of you, for your strong will to advance social europe. we must always ask ourselves what the citizens of europe think, because we are not building a social europe in a vacuum. we are building a social europe for citizens, for young people, for all those who are in difficulty. well, the answer we have is that nine out of ten europeans say that a stronger social europe is in their own best interest. this means that citizens, regardless of ideology or preconceived ideas, are aware and know very well that without a social europe they will not be protected. they understand that in a globalised world, in a world where the economy is becoming more and more integrated, in a world where technology is becoming faster and faster, without rules, without a europe to protect them, they have no guarantees. that is what the citizens want. they don't discuss a priori competence, they want results. and i like the idea that trust is built on concrete results. the porto summit is a road map, it is a great orientation, it is political commitments at the highest level that must guide us now, that create obligations. these are not empty words. it is now up to us to implement the action plan. it is up to us to implement the social rights pillar. the citizens expect concrete action, and you're right. has there been no concrete action since this commission took office? is the 100 billion from the sure fund, which has saved millions of jobs, preserved millions of jobs, protected millions of workers, maintained their incomes, their jobs, their prospects, not a concrete action? the minimum wage initiative, the framework for minimum wages in europe, create real hope and expectation for all those condemned to work poverty. it's ours now. you have done and are doing your job, putting all this into practice so that all those who have a poor wage, from which they cannot live a decent life, can actually find in their work the dignity to which they are entitled. we have talked a lot about poverty and, believe me, i know that europe alone cannot solve the problem of poverty. first, the millions of europeans at risk of poverty should be a daily challenge. it is not acceptable that 18 million children have no prospects because they are from poor families. they do not have the same prospects for schooling, they do not have the same prospects simply for enjoying life, certain services at school, culture, sports. so europe sets an objective, europe gives a direction, but europe also provides the financial means. of course, the member states must make a large contribution to this and must implement a policy in accordance with their traditions and social and economic culture. but what's important is the result in the end. it's about lifting millions of children out of poverty, it's about lifting workers who don't have decent wages out of poverty and giving them dignity. the same applies to the guarantee for children, which we will adopt next week. it is a means, a tool, which is in the hands of the member states, with the support of the european union - support both for organising a real policy on the fight against poverty, but also financial support. as for the youth guarantee, i am very sensitive to the situation of young people. it is they who have suffered the most during this crisis, it is they who have lost their jobs, it is they who have not had the jobs to which they are entitled, it is they who also live in absolute precariousness. we have already taken initiatives for youth employment, through the youth guarantee, and this is not over. we are of course calling on the member states to implement a number of measures to support young people, to offer them prospects, to reduce precariousness in the labour market. all of these are concrete actions that europe is launching, that the commission is implementing with you. of course, the member states must contribute to this. and so, this question of competence, of course, is very close to me. of course it's very important. we do not want to take the place of the member states. we know the treaties, we also know the limits of the commission and the european union in social matters. but we also know that without these important incentives, these european social policies, europe will fall apart. a strong europe cannot be built on the internal market alone. we can only build europe on solid foundations, foundations accepted and wanted by the citizens, the same citizens who demand a social europe from us.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for all the speeches and the organisation of this useful and timely debate. thank you very much, commissioner, for your passionate and convincing intervention. this debate underlines the importance of working together, of strengthening the social dimension of the european union and of putting the gothenburg principles into action. i noted with interest the european parliament's idea and its willingness to monitor the follow-up of the social summit in the context of a sustainable and digital economic and social recovery. on the council side, the employment and social affairs ministers will also hold a policy debate in the epsco council on 14 june on the next steps at national and european level to further implement the european pillar of social rights, following the presentation of the action plan, the commitment - this is an important word - of porto and the objectives on creating better and more jobs, adequate vocational training and reducing poverty, in particular child poverty. this debate will also address the involvement of social partners and civil society in the implementation of the pillar, as well as the way forward for member states in setting national targets for the next cycle of the european semester and the appropriate use of existing financial mechanisms. we know that the instrument which will enable the objectives of the pillar to be achieved is primarily the responsibility of the member states. we know that we have to respect national competences and the diversity that exists in europe. however, the european institutions also have an important role to play in the fight against poverty, in creating more jobs, in providing adequate vocational training. it's a shared responsibility. the three institutions have been working together to strengthen and consolidate the social dimension of the european union. i can also assure you that this will be one of the topics of discussion at the conference on the future of europe because it affects the lives of our citizens. the construction of social europe is a path on which we have taken a significant step in porto. we did so with the support of this parliament and the european commission. i am convinced that only in this way can we respond decisively to the expectations of our citizens, with concrete action and without having to wait another four years for a new social summit.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. according to the european commission, europe is home to the world's most equal societies, the highest standards of working conditions and the most extensive social protection. an idyllic setting that contrasts sharply with the 15.5 million unemployed registered by eurostat in march 2021. with the covid-19 crisis, unemployment increased by 2.019 million people in the eu and 1.614 million in the euro area in one year. today, 72 million europeans still live below the poverty line, or one in six. what is the european commission doing in this context? it is concerned about the effects of the pandemic on the participation of migrants in the labour market and advocates the establishment of new legal immigration routes. the exact opposite of what should be done at the moment, namely a general moratorium on the residence of migrants and the immediate expulsion of illegal immigrants, in order to concentrate the few resources available on reducing the unemployment rate and the fight against poverty. let 's help our own people first before we help others !
the next item is the joint debate on– the council and commission statements on the recent cyberattacks on eu institutions and on sensitive national public and private institutions (2021/2713(rsp)), and– the oral question to the commission on the eu’s cybersecurity strategy for the digital decade by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000037/2021 – b9-0024/21) (2021/2568(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner hahn, honourable members, with a growing digitalisation of our lives we are also witnessing an increase in the number of cyberattacks on the union and on its member states. these attacks are becoming more frequent and are having a growing impact in our daily lives. we have seen very recent examples of the significant impact of these attacks on critical services for our society and on the functioning of important public and private entities such as our healthcare services during the covid-19 pandemic. we must increase our resilience and improve our cybersecurity, which is of utmost importance for ensuring proper functioning of our society, of our democracies, of our economies. this was also called for by the european council in june 2019 and reiterated this february. i therefore welcome the new eu cybersecurity strategy for the digital decade, which the commission and the high representative presented at the end of last year. it shows ambition, with a comprehensive set of measures such as legislative proposals, investment and policy instruments, and it has a comprehensive view. the commission and the high representative will present a report on its implementation now on 23 june. the recent council conclusions on this cybersecurity strategy highlight a number of actions for the coming years related to digital and cybersecurity skills in the workforce, as well as the availability of financial instruments, in particular to support smes. we are also seeking to build on the eu’s cyberdiplomacy efforts and increase the effectiveness of the eu cyberdiplomacy toolbox. while much work has already been done, or is under way, much more still needs to be done. the new directive on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity, the so-called nis2 directive, will be an important cornerstone of our cybersecurity and, as co-legislators, i hope we can ensure a swift adoption. in the council, we hope to be in a position to start negotiations by the end of this year. i also look forward to the future legislative proposals on common rules on information security and common binding rules on cybersecurity for all eu institutions, bodies and agencies, which the commission has announced and which are expected in october this year. in due time, the commission will also present its concept on the joint cyber unit, a platform that would help to better protect the eu from the most serious cyberattacks. we also need to enhance cooperation and information-sharing amongst the various cybercommunities within the eu and explore how we can better link the various existing initiatives, structures and procedures. the eu institutions are taking steps to reinforce their security culture and resilience, including by improving their assessment of security threats to the institutions, and promoting security awareness amongst the eu staff. the eu institutions, bodies and agencies are also actively working on securing their communication and information systems. cybersecurity is undoubtedly one of the biggest challenges for the years to come. it will require adapted, coordinated and innovative responses in all member states and in all of our institutions. the number, magnitude, sophistication, frequency and impact of cybersecurity incidents are increasing every day and generating financial losses, undermining our citizens’ confidence and causing major damage in the union economy and society. our cybersecurity preparedness and resilience are therefore now more essential than ever. we need to work on this together. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, cybersecurity is a major global risk and cyber—enabled threats are becoming increasingly widespread, impactful and pervasive. the commission welcomes the much stronger focus on cyber resilience. as announced in the cybersecurity strategy of last december, the commission will consider a comprehensive approach to address the growing importance of the internet of secure things, in coherence with union law such as product safety. it could include new horizontal rules for all connected products and associated services placed on the internal market. in addition, the network code and the initiative on the protection of critical energy infrastructure could address the residual physical and cyber risks affecting energy systems. the commission, with the european union agency for cybersecurity (enisa), is working on such cybersecurity certification schemes, which could become mandatory for essential and important entities under the recent proposal for a network and information system, the so-called nis 2. this certification scheme could also be instrumental in enhancing the strategic autonomy of our cybersecurity supply chain. being a directive, nis 2 only applies to member states, but the eu institutions are also an important target and attacks are growing dramatically in both number and in sophistication. the covid—19 pandemic and the shift to teleworking has only exacerbated the situation. the cyber maturity varies a lot amongst institutions, bodies and agencies, but since our systems are all interlinked, the weakest link poses a large risk to all of us. we are therefore preparing a proposal for a regulation on cybersecurity for the eu institutions, bodies and agencies, which is expected for october this year. here we will set out a common framework for cyber standards, a joint governance structure, and we will reinforce the mandate and financing of cert-eu, the computer emergency response team of the union institutions, bodies and agencies. the strategic importance of the internet is yet another issue highlighted by the covid—19 crisis. the commission is fully committed to increasing the security and resilience of the open internet. it’s a task that cannot be handled by a single organisation alone. our cybersecurity strategy sets out several key actions in this regard. we aim at reinforcing the security of internet critical infrastructure, in particular the global domain name system, the root server system. we will also be collaborating with enisa, member states, eu dns root server operators and the multi—stakeholder community in preparing contingency plans for extreme scenarios that could affect the integrity and availability of the internet, without forgetting that the developed internet standards and good practices will be promoted in partner countries as well. we will consider the need for a mechanism for more systematic monitoring and gathering of aggregated data on internet traffic and for advising on potential disruptions, and join international partners to improve coordination to address and respond to intentional disrupting attempts. furthermore, the secure connectivity flagship announced in the action plan on synergies between civil defence and space industries aims to provide a space—based backbone. this will ensure resilient and autonomous access for eu users in case something happens to ground—based connectivity infrastructures. finally, let me renew the commission’s strong support for the multi—stakeholder model for internet governance. we will be promoting this model and we will oppose any attempt to establish top-down control of the global internet.
author. – madam president, the digital transformation is a key strategic priority of the union. cybersecurity means safety and security for any interconnected device, service or phone, be they smart devices or smart washing machines, smart home systems, or online payment services, the online services that governments puts at citizens’ disposal, and even the european parliament’s system and website, as well as the cars we drive, or metros and railways. everything is interconnected and interoperable and could be hacked. technological progress, new technologies and the internet of things potentially mean hundreds more devices going online and being interconnected in the near future, with cyber threats then having the ability to endanger on a greater scale and with a greater impact. moreover, the covid-19 crisis has again exposed the cyber vulnerabilities of some critical sectors, particularly healthcare. the associated measures of teleworking and social distancing have increased our dependency on digital technologies and connectivity, while cyberattacks and cybercrime – including espionage and sabotage, as well as malicious and unlawful ways of entering and manipulating ict systems, structures and networks – are increasing in number and sophistication across europe. to address these challenges we need resilience. we need to become less vulnerable to attack and, in the case of a threat or even an attack, we need a quick response mechanism. the eu looks more determined to fight these challenges. securing network and information systems in the european union is essential to keeping the online economy running, safeguarding the competitiveness of our industry, and ensuring privacy and prosperity for our citizens, securing their data privacy as well. the european union is working on a number of fronts to promote cyber resilience. we welcome the initiatives announced in the eu’s cybersecurity strategy for the digital decade, but also note the evolution in the nature and sophistication of cyber threats, the risk of fragmented regulation and opportunity to strengthen our industry. we would therefore call on the commission to promote the development of secure and reliable network and information systems, infrastructure and connectivity across the union with a framework laying down horizontal cybersecurity requirements that would also aim to harmonise national measures and avoid fragmentation of the single market. therefore, it is essential to further assess the need to propose measures at union level introducing cybersecurity requirements for applications, software, embedded software and operating systems by 2023, building upon the eu acquis on risk management requirements. digitalisation should happen with cybersecurity embedded, and for this, we need to further invest in innovation as well. the new european cybersecurity, industrial technology and research competence centre, based in bucharest, will aim to retain and develop the cybersecurity, technological and industrial capacities necessary to secure the union digital single market and will be of paramount importance for creating an interconnected europe-wide cybersecurity, industrial and research ecosystem. therefore, the centre needs to start its activity as soon as possible. we would welcome on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre committee) concrete answers from the commission to the following questions: how and when does it intend to draw up a regulatory framework for ensuring that connected products and associated services, including supply chains, are secure by design, resilient to cyber incidents, and can be quickly patched up when vulnerabilities are discovered? does the commission plan to tackle the need to introduce cybersecurity requirements for applications, software, embedded software and operating systems? what concrete steps will the commission take to strengthen the eu’s strategic autonomy in cybersecurity, namely by reducing its technological dependence and skills gap? how is the commission planning to ensure that eu funds are spent in a synergetic way to achieve these goals? and finally, what actions will the commission take in order to improve the cybersecurity of the core of the internet while keeping it free, open and neutral?
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, since the first cybersecurity directive in 2016, europe has been developing a consistent policy, based on strengthening our capacity to prevent and respond to cyberattacks. i have to say that the european union is demonstrating significant added value, by contributing to the coordination of responses to cyber threats, investing in research and driving the development of a european cybersecurity industry. but it is necessary to go one step further. we need to speed up. we are already in a data economy which can only thrive if confidence in products and applications is guaranteed. it's estimated that by the year 2024, there will be more than 23 billion connected devices around the world. on the other hand, europe has a large globally competitive industrial sector and the growing development of the internet of things opens up a new opportunity to strengthen this capacity. this requires ensuring that infrastructure and products connected to the internet are secure by design, resilient to cyber incidents and are rapidly patched when vulnerabilities are discovered. we are debating a resolution today which is a magnificent contribution by this parliament to the road map of european cyber security.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, four days ago, a family business in the vendée region was the victim of a cyber attack. 650 employees had to stay home because their work tools were no longer working. on 14 may, the irish health system was affected by a ransomware attack that prevented many patients from receiving treatment. on 9 december, the european medicines agency was attacked. i could give you dozens of other examples. europe is facing a rise in cyberattacks, and this tide is only rising as digitisation progresses. the union must react more strongly to these digital threats, which affect not only the digital world but also the real lives of businesses and our citizens. we have drawn up this resolution, which stresses several points. first, we need more cooperation in the face of cyberattacks, whether between member states or with companies. we need to get information out there. secondly, we need new european regulations. whether it's connected products or software, new rules are needed to secure our digital tools. and finally, third, we need to develop a culture of cybersecurity. every institution, every company, every citizen needs to be aware of the risks that exist on the digital and prepare for them, because once the cyber attack has happened, it is already too late.
madam president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, the european response to cybersecurity threats is a challenge of sovereignty, survival, technological capacity and economic and social organisation to successfully meet the challenges of the next decade. it calls for the systemic response envisaged in the european strategy to be implemented now, with efficiency and cooperation. combating regulatory and procedural fragmentation and defining horizontal legislation. encouraging the sharing of information between member states. by promoting cyber literacy at all levels of society. reducing the union's technological dependence and using the new innovation and development support programmes to ensure european strategic autonomy across the value chain and leadership in critical market segments. supporting smes to strengthen their protection capacity by developing secure connectivity and interoperability standards that are accessible to different users. finally, introducing robust protection and security criteria in the regulation of digital services and markets. this is the path we must take together with determination.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european medicines agency, vaccine storage centres, hospitals, the european banking authority, national or regional parliaments, election mailboxes: the list of european targets for cyberattacks is long, and this is just the beginning. we're not at war, but we're not really at peace anymore. we are moving in a fluctuating, nebulous and dangerous in-between. a state of so-called "hybrid warfare". it's time to recognize how vulnerable we are, time to strengthen our defenses and invest heavily in cybersecurity. ladies and gentlemen, we are not being attacked by isolated hackers, but by hostile authoritarian regimes that consider piracy to be an effective and inexpensive political-military strategy. and how can they be wrong? so far, the cost imposed on the russian or chinese regimes for their attacks is laughable. so let's wake up and get out of here! the deterrent is not just to punish the hackers, it's to punish the states that are behind the hackers. it's about the safety of all of us.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, faced with the enormous cost of legal fees, many of our citizens are reluctant to go to court. if the european ombudsman did not exist, who would bring the contradiction to the heart of the european administration? who would be the voice of our fellow citizens? the european ombudsman, because he is free to refer cases to him, because his action is quick - less than five months on average - has, among other things, opened up the question of maladministration by the commission. the fight for transparency in the contracts for the purchase of astrazeneca or pfizer vaccines, the denunciation of the slippery slope of the head of the european banking authority: the ombudsman is a bulwark against this disembodied european union and often far from the concerns of european citizens. now, i regret that the ombudsman's statute which we are discussing today does not raise the question of compliance by the brussels institutions with his decisions. this opens up another avenue for the ombudsman: apart from the remdesivir scandal, why are experts who are heard by members of the european parliament not held accountable for their statements or for their failure to answer questions put to them during parliamentary hearings? in conclusion, i have only one complaint: the question of the siege of strasbourg. it is clear that the health conditions would have allowed the sessions to continue in strasbourg. in this respect, the ombudsman, whom we have called upon to defend alsace, should have shown more respect for the law, history and the people of strasbourg.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the holding of this debate coincides perfectly with recent events. in france, the trial of several cyberstalkers in the case of mila, a young woman who received death threats on social networks for criticizing islam, has just taken place. cyberbullying, far from being virtual, can destroy lives, even kill. the case of samuel paty is emblematic. this teacher was beheaded in the street by a jihadist after being lynched on social media. there is no doubt that all of you in this house are aware of the problem of harassment, regardless of your political colour. and we are among the most qualified to speak about it, as the president of our party, marine le pen, has been the target of repeated threats and insults for years in the general indifference. there is a double standard in dealing with these cases, and it is easy to prove it. the same people who are protesting the cyber-harassment of progressive icon kamala harris are not speaking up to defend marine le pen when a rapper insults her and fantasizes about her rape in his lyrics. on the contrary, french government ministers, many of them women, are defending the rapper and supporting him to sing the french anthem at the football euro. true, cyberbullying is bad for social media. but what we need is not so much vague and freedom-killing legislation against online hate as a general mobilization of the political, associative and media worlds to unequivocally condemn cyberharassment that spares no one, especially teenagers, and a determination to enforce the sanctions already provided by law. to settle for selective indignation is to bring discredit on an issue that should bring us all together.
mr president, last night i was on the terrace, chatting with friends of all kinds, and then someone came to our table and said to me: 'shut up and let the french decide! then another person came and shouted, "you bitch! you're a bad generation!" by the end of the day, 25 of them were saying, "you're a jerk!" or "you're a fool!" does this look weird to you, as a scene? actually, it wasn't in real life, but this is what would happen if you transposed twitter into real life. and these insults, i really got them on social media. i even printed them. i only printed a few. poor girl, what a fool she is, i have a small pile. and i'm not the only one. millions of us, mostly women, are told this kind of thing every day. three-quarters of women have already been harassed online, according to the un. after experiencing online violence, one third stop giving their opinion, according to amnesty international. these behaviours, often expressed by people sitting comfortably on their couch, well hidden behind their screens, are barriers to freedom of expression. the development of such masculine language and behaviour leads to self-censorship, makes women invisible and legitimises hatred and violence. the internet should be the opposite of that, it should be a place of expression, freedom, debate, exchange, a common space where everyone should be able to discuss everything and nothing, but above all everything.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, women's leadership and participation in politics is under threat everywhere. women still represent on average less than one third of those elected to national parliaments within the european union. the more difficult participation of women in politics is explained by several obstacles: stereotypes, prejudices, the consequences of the dominant, archaic, millennial model, which was well described by françoise héritier, a great anthropologist with whom i had the chance to work. and this model of female domination has also internalized stereotypes for them. in our societies where political communication is more online and social media, we see very violent attacks on women politicians - which i myself have been subjected to - and which are reinforced by the anonymity allowed on platforms. women must be able to access digital spaces free from all violence and harassment, and a european legislative initiative would be indispensable.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report calls for the imposition of specifically pink quotas for roma and lgbt migrants in universities, companies and decision-making bodies. i will avoid talking about the blatant exploitation of a serious issue like women's involvement in stem professions to make a play for feminist, immigrant and lgbt lobbyists. but i need you to make one thing clear to me: if you say that we need pink quotas to favor women over men, you're admitting that there are women and men, but at the same time, if you're sponsoring lgbt gender issues, you're saying that being a man or a woman is just a choice. so, applying your theories, if i tell you tomorrow that i feel like a woman, i automatically get the right to be in a pink quota. a right i lose if i feel like a man again, but i get back if i feel like a woman again and so on. not to mention transgender, all gender, pangender, and a thousand other invented identities. do you propose an ad hoc quota for each of them? because, i warn you, you will end up creating more quotas than jobs and at the end of this grotesque short circuit you have gotten yourself into, it will be women who will be blamed.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, 257: according to the davos forum, which is not a haven for leftists, this is the number of years it would take to eliminate gender inequalities at work. 257 years for women, who represent 52% of the european population, to finally get the place they have always been entitled to. and colleagues, today in this house, it is a shame in 2021 to repeat that number. so why is gender equality still so invisible on the horizon? the weight of stereotypes, which weigh on women from birth. just turn on the tv or walk around any toy store to see the place reserved for girls in society. and i regret that for planes, buildings, machinery, we have to go to the shelves of little boys, when we are very competent on these topics. we are stakeholders in a system that disadvantages women at all levels. if we want to close the gender gap in stem careers, we need to break the glass ceiling. gender equality in stem careers needs to go through a deep rethinking of our societal rules. it is time to raise awareness in the education community by creating scholarships to expand women's access to stem studies. it is time to use the media to promote gender equality and highlight inspiring female role models. it is time to empower the workplace to establish a culture of non-discrimination and non-harassment. and if there is to be no ordinary sexism, then we must be uncompromising. for there to be parity in stem, you have to really want it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the underrepresentation of women in management is not just a question of gender equality. the existing asymmetries have a significant economic impact. on the one hand, many women are prevented from entering high-growth sectors with attractive wages, and on the other hand, europe is wasting a huge pool of talent that it needs to achieve its goals. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs susana solís pérez, on her report and the proposals she has put forward. my country, portugal, has achieved excellent results in attracting women to management areas, where they already represent more than 50% of new graduates. this is the result of a long-term commitment to disseminating these areas to the younger generations of both genders. however, not everything is done, in portugal women are still in the minority in information and communication technologies and, above all, in leadership positions. there is an urgent need to promote and fund programmes that attract more women to study and work in management, by presenting success stories of women in the media and in society at large.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs solís pérez for this excellent report. the issue of gender equality in training and employment in science, technology, engineering and mathematics is a key issue, while the european union is facing an unprecedented gender gap. only one in six ict specialists in the european union is a woman. we must reverse this trend. calls on the european commission and the member states to make greater efforts and to adopt accompanying measures and targeted actions to break down the barriers that stand in the way of girls and women from an early age. the report outlines ways forward, such as tackling gender stereotypes and the need for mentors and female role models. i would like to emphasise the importance of digital skills for the future of work. all the studies show this, especially those of the ilo. to illustrate this, i am developing an initiative in marseille, my home, where i will encourage young girls from disadvantaged backgrounds to train in coding, in digital skills, to open up career prospects for them. they will be ambassadors for other young women. i think that these initiatives should be multiplied with the help of european funding and that women who wish to do so should be encouraged to pursue scientific and technical careers.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as elected representatives, one of our tasks is to respond to the demands of citizens when they call us. the citizens' initiative 'ending the cage era' is a call that cannot be ignored, but which requires a particularly pragmatic approach. european farmers are constantly questioning their practices, improving and adjusting their work. thanks to the support of technical institutes, research results and exchanges with some ngos, they are constantly progressing. if we don't start by recognizing this, there's no way to continue this progress. let us have a positive approach, in the light of the realities of the terrain. the resolution on the table is a balanced response, adapted to the demands of society. any attempt to push the sliders further is not only demagogic but also completely ineffective. some people get off on demanding everything right away. i'm not sure they're as much fun for chickens and rabbits; the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new guidelines for the european social fund. food has a price, so do the farming practices. i hope that we will have the same ambition in this area as we have in imposing strict production rules on ourselves. moreover, each time we raise our standards in an open world market, we immediately expose ourselves to more competition that does not impose these ambitions. on a chicken leg that enters europe, no analysis can detect in which cage the chicken was raised.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the citizens' initiative a new era without cages has gathered over 1.6 million signatures. it's a real back-up knife. europeans are aiming for a big leap forward in animal welfare. this citizens' movement is a duty for us, because it is now up to us to put it into action. in fact, the abolition of cages would make it possible to better respect the five freedoms of animal welfare, which are: not to suffer from hunger or thirst, not to suffer from discomfort, not to suffer from pain, injury or disease, not to experience fear or distress, and finally, to be able to express the natural behaviours specific to the species. the end of cages would enhance each of these five freedoms. it would benefit over 300 million animals currently kept in cages in europe: rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, pigs in gestation cages and calves in individual cages. it would also make it possible to change our agricultural model towards less intensive and therefore less polluting farming. however, there are two harmful effects that we must guard against. firstly, all imports of meat must comply with eu standards, and this also applies to imports of ukrainian chickens. otherwise we will only have moved the problem and ruined our farmers. on the other hand, the density of animals on the ground must be limited, since it would be hypocritical to remove cages without limiting the number of animals per square metre. only under these two conditions will we respect both the letter and the spirit of the citizens' initiative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we can take a major step towards improving the animal welfare situation. animals are sentient beings. yet more than 300 million of them are caged in the european union. today we can vote to end cages in livestock farming. we can rejoice in the massive mobilisation of over 1.4 million citizens and hundreds of organisations that has made this moment possible. the end of cages is possible: in organic farming, they are already prohibited. of course, farmers must be supported in this transition. we have to do a lot better in this area. only 1.15% of the cap budget was devoted to animal welfare. unfortunately, my country, france, is lagging behind, with only 25% of animals being reared outside cages. no prohibition on pig cages as in sweden, no prohibition on rabbit cages as in austria, no prohibition on chicken cages as in the czech republic by 2027. so today, let's not hesitate: let's vote for the end of cages.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all underline the importance of this debate because it has its origins in a european citizens' initiative, an instrument of participation enshrined in the treaty of lisbon which, in essence, aims to deepen democracy by broadening the spaces and forms of relationship between citizens and the european institutions. the 'end the cage age' initiative is therefore an example of this civic engagement of european citizens with public policies and decisions and is a testament to the importance of creating instruments that reinforce the expression of european citizenship. we have this debate at a time when there is more than enough scientific evidence to show that confining animals in cages has a negative impact on their health and well-being, preventing them from expressing their natural behaviours. at the same time, alternative trading systems are already a reality. the time has therefore come to make this transition, to create the conditions, both legislative and supporting, for the producers to put an end to cage systems as quickly as possible.
madam president, i simply wanted to thank the 1.5 million citizens who, in 18 countries of the european union, have mobilized to advance animal welfare. i also wanted to thank the 170 civil society organisations, including ciwf, for their outstanding work in mobilising and explaining. i would like to thank all my colleagues in the intergroup on animal welfare and protection who, in this parliament, beyond their political group and affiliation, are fighting to improve the condition of animals, day after day. but i also want to turn and thank my colleagues on the committee on agriculture and rural development, and especially our farming friends and colleagues who, beyond their daily difficulties, are willing to take into account their role as legislators and to move the lines in the name of the general interest. and so, by working together, by working together, whatever the difficulties we may encounter, we will be able to move the lines, we will be able to ensure that the industrial model that is not only damaging the lives of animals in an outrageous way, but also our whole humanity, is brought to an end.
before continuing with the debates i will open the first voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated in the agenda. the voting session will be open from 9.45 until 11.00. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare the first voting session open. you have until 11.00 to vote. the results of the first voting session will be announced at 13.00.
we now continue with the debate on the european citizens’ initiative ‘end the cage age’ (2021/2633(rsp)).
madam president, we all eat: it is a vital necessity. i am a farmer myself, and yet i believe that food and agriculture are subjects that must be put back at the centre of a societal debate, and that this debate must not be confiscated by an agricultural-agricultural sphere of specialists. i am therefore particularly pleased that european citizens have taken up the european citizens' initiative, an important tool for european democracy, to express their views on this issue. their wishes must be heard and the cage farming aberration must end. the evolution of these ancient practices must not be confined to the european union. the european union must be a world leader in changing livestock practices. we also need to ensure that our farmers do not face unfair competition from imports that do not speak to their animal welfare, environment and working conditions. the question of international trade is therefore central. the introduction of mirror clauses is a necessary condition for the transitions that european agriculture must make. our parliament is therefore strongly involved in these matters, as is shown by the discussions on the common organization of the market for the cap. the rules of the world trade organisation already give us room for manoeuvre, which the european union does not exploit as much as it is obsessed with being the white knight of liberalism. and if these rules don't allow us to go any further, then let's change them.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, a heartfelt thank you to the 1.5 million citizens here in europe who have signed who have signed for a better tomorrow. i'm proud to have my signature on it. we have signed up for the 120 million rabbits kept in cages in europe every year, for the 350 million laying hens kept in the same conventional way, half of them in insanely small pens, for the 11 million sows, for the insane number of quails kept in cages, for the 40 million ducks, and so on and so forth. this is what we signed up for. mr norbert lins, it is not right for us to respond to these signatures and to the people's wishes by saying that there is a possible date for a review. no, we want a date to get out! we want an exit date end of 2027 must be the end end of caging of farm animals. it has to be over. there are moral reasons for this. there are ethical reasons for this. there are health reasons for this. there are, above all, european reasons for this.
madam president, firstly, i would like to mention that it is great to see citizens so engaged in eu decision making. democracy is about giving citizens a voice, and i would encourage more citizens to get involved, especially in the conference on the future of europe. animal welfare is, of course, a very important issue, and i believe it can be best guaranteed when farmers have the right tools and even incentives when needed. the end the cage age initiative is fighting for a cause to improve animal welfare and to invest in sustainable farming for the future. inherently, this is a valiant cause and i support it, but we just have to make sure it is implemented in the right way, including for the safety of the animals as well as the farmers. i support a transition from cages to alternative systems. however, sufficient time must be afforded to farmers and livestock breeders. farmers must be equipped to receive proper support, including adequate advisory and training services and financial incentives, as they may incur higher production costs. to guarantee animal welfare and not disadvantage our own farmers, we also need effective controls on imported products to see if they respect eu animal welfare standards. animal welfare and sustainable agriculture can be assured when farmers get the right incentives. this initiative achieves both objectives. end the cage age. let the birds fly.
madam president, as vice-president of the european parliament responsible for european democracy and the european citizens' initiative, i would like to congratulate the promoters of this 'end the cage age' initiative on the merit of their proposal, which draws our attention to a very important issue of animal welfare and, above all, on its contribution to a more vibrant and more participatory european democracy. our democracy needs citizens' participation beyond voting and the european institutions have a duty to consider citizens' proposals. that is what the european parliament is doing, it has called for a hearing in the committee on agriculture of the proposers, it is debating a resolution on the proposal today. it is now up to the commission to give an answer within a month and, i hope, to come forward with a legislative initiative for the necessary transition. the european parliament will play its role of watchdog to ensure that citizens' proposals are taken seriously.
madam president, with this resolution parliament has the opportunity to take the side of the citizens. thanks to the work of hundreds of associations and volunteers, 1.4 million signatures were collected across europe calling for an end to cage farming. the treaty on european union recognises animals as sentient beings. yet 300 million animals are still kept in cages, including chickens, pigs, rabbits, ducks and geese. most of them never touch the ground in their lives. they'll never see the light of day, except during transportation to the slaughterhouse. it is time to bring our animal protection legislation into line with the values we advocate. the resolution is a step in the right direction, but it fails to give a clear objective: the end of cages by 2027. that is why i call on you to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the green group. gandhi said that you can tell how civilized a people is by the way they treat their animals. the european union would grow by voting today to leave the cage era.
author. madam president, are not our children the greatest wealth of our countries, our most precious treasure? isn't protecting our children our most important duty? in its resolution on the situation of moroccan migrant minors in ceuta, parliament called for an end to the blackmail of migrants, which exploits human misery and uses children and adults for geopolitical ends; for strict respect for international law and human rights in the care of migrant children at the borders and in europe; and finally, the resolution of the western sahara conflict in accordance with international law right to self-determination and end of the occupation. all this is to soothe europe's relations with morocco and to be able to continue our cooperation, which is so important for young people on both sides of the mediterranean, in a calm manner. beyond european solidarity and child protection, this resolution is also a message of support for moroccans, the children who still roam the streets of ceuta, the anxious parents and the mulatto women.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the mediterranean is our cradle, the cradle of civilizations which, from greece to al-andalus, have made us what we are. but for years, the mediterranean has become the graveyard of thousands of migrants who have lost their lives there. these migrants are not statistics, they are human beings, men, women, children whose breath has been taken by a wave higher than the others, a boat that is overturned, thirst, exhaustion. morocco has been cooperating closely with the european union for years to combat trafficking in human beings. the cherifian kingdom has become less a country of departure or transit for migrants and much more a country of destination. his challenges are our challenges. the children who crossed the border into ceuta must be returned to their families. i welcome the announcement by the king of morocco that unaccompanied minors will be allowed to return. i call on spain and morocco to overcome their differences and to resume a peaceful dialogue as soon as possible. let us never make migrants hostages to our political disagreements and, when they are minors, let us never forget the best interests of the children they are still.
author. madam president, a few years ago, during the last russian elections, would mr putin have needed to have his house pass so many repressive laws, so many laws banning all expression? did he need to have so many arrests and arbitrary acts? no, because a few years ago, mr. putin had a real popularity, because he was seen as the avenger of russian humiliation, because mr. putin had no problems or few problems in the former soviet republics, because mr. putin was firmly in office. if he multiplies repression as he does today, then his power is weakening. it is that we are entering - or rather russia is entering - a period that will probably be long and certainly painful, but a period of the end of rule, of the end of the regime. at such a time, at such a moment, what should we do? well, that is exactly what we are doing, namely being ever more firm towards the regime, being ever more firm towards mr putin, denouncing ever more these arbitrary acts and repression and telling the people of the russian federation ever more that our deepest desire is to be able one day to organise the stability and cooperation of the continent in a good understanding between the european union and the russian federation. that day will come, i'm sure. we're sure of it.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, the european borders have become open-air cemeteries. the dead are piled up in the mediterranean, asylum seekers are kidnapped, abandoned in the aegean, tortured in the croatian forests. spain abandons the moroccan miners in ceuta, greece uses sonic cannons, italy blocks the rescue ships. and you look away. faced with this humanitarian crisis, the governments are throwing the ball at each other, except that this is not football, but human lives. instead of rescuing the exiles, frontex hunts them down and abandons them to the mafia networks. and this is how the european union only adds to the chaos. it is time to break with this inhumane and ineffective policy. we must organise coordinated reception, get rid of the dublin regulations, denounce the agreements with libya or turkey. any other policy will be a failure and will be marked by the mark of shame. the european union must stop being a puppet of the far right on this issue and on the defence of minority rights. how can we accept that in europe a state equates homosexuals with child offenders and prohibits the promotion of homosexuality among minors? this is exactly what the hungarian parliament has just voted. so when you have viktor orbán in front of you, mrs zacarias, it will not be enough to condemn him belatedly, as ursula von der leyen has just done. this new attack on lgbti people, this one too many, must be punished immediately and with the utmost firmness. hungarians and all lgbti people need to know that they will not be abandoned, that they have the most fundamental right to love who they want, that our left group will do everything to end orbán's impunity. and since uefa has unjustly refused to allow the colours of the rainbow to be displayed in the munich stadium tonight, during the football match against hungary, let me float them high and loud here in the european parliament, so that we can finally whistle the end of the game of state homophobia in hungary. (speaker unfolds the rainbow flag of the lgbti community)
mr president, on the eve of the council, some, including the renew group, mr macron's group, are calling for the mandatory relocation of migrants within the european continent to be reintroduced. it is a way of dealing with our impotence to control our borders, to deal with our impotence in the face of illegal immigration, it is not a response to the migration challenge. because if we stop at this idea, we have given up on the idea of defending europe's external borders against illegal immigration, against the business of smugglers, and we are thus fuelling their sinister economy and human trafficking. we have a duty to finally implement this concerted strategy for european border control to support the member states most affected. and to do that, to put an end to the scandalous, perpetually investigated lawsuit against the frontex agency, which does nothing but its job as a coast guard and border guard, when it prevents the european continent from seeing people who have not been authorized to enter. there is only one way to stop all the deaths that are mourning the mediterranean sea, and that is to guarantee and make it known that no one can settle in europe unless he has been legally allowed to do so. without this, europe has no future and will never regain its dignity.
mr president, after switzerland's break with the framework agreement negotiations after seven years, we must now think carefully about the way forward. i think that the commission must first of all study carefully the operation of each of the many agreements with switzerland. for example, the agreements on the movement of persons are applied in switzerland to the detriment of european citizens: although switzerland is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the european single market, our citizens and our companies are facing difficulties there. i am concerned that since brexit a dynamic of disagreement, i would even say conflict, has been set in motion between the european countries neighbouring the european union. it is now switzerland, but we are also seeing it in fisheries with norway, mr vice-president of the commission, which is taking serious unilateral measures such as those affecting the mackerel fishery in the waters of the north-east atlantic and also the cod fishery in the svalbard islands. in addition, the difficulties we have with the united kingdom in implementing the agreements recently reached are well known. i therefore believe that the european union must adopt a firm and rigorous attitude towards its european neighbours. in the case of switzerland, we must carefully study the extent to which the agreements are being implemented and not make any further concessions. furthermore, switzerland must reconsider its decision and return to the negotiating table to conclude an agreement which is necessary to rebalance our relations and to be able to modernise them.
mr. president, the decision by switzerland to unilaterally terminate negotiations on a modernised agreement regulating relations with the european union is regrettable. today we need to discuss what we as the european union can do to protect the interests of our citizens and businesses. some open issues like corporate taxation require urgent resolution or continued negotiation. we can't do it unilaterally, we need the will of the other side, but it's usually not there. but our partners should be reminded that the european union is switzerland's main trading partner, that our relations are regulated by 120 bilateral cooperation agreements. it is unacceptable, for example, that eight years after accession, croatian workers are the only eu citizens who still need a work permit to work in switzerland even for a period of less than three months. this is a clear example of discrimination against workers from one member state, which is a direct violation of the legal provisions. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the swiss authorities have not yet been able to establish a legal basis for the application of the rules on state aid.
the commission has already done so. i am very sorry, as are many of my colleagues, that these negotiations have failed and that this agreement has not been able to be concluded. i also say to switzerland very clearly that it is not acceptable that we have first and second class citizens of the european union, that some should have freedom of movement and others not - this is unacceptable. however, we should not blame switzerland alone, but also look at the mistakes we ourselves have made. i am surprised to see how strongly and persistently the european commission has opposed the fact that labour market protection measures, which are very good in switzerland for workers' rights and social rights, are given priority. why were they so treated? we should have done this differently. i therefore ask you in the european commission to do everything possible to restart the negotiations. but it must be done in such a way that the rights of workers are put at the centre of the debate and not just the economy. and that, i think, is the most important thing we have to take with us today.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank honourable members for a very fruitful debate. i take from this exchange that we all concur that our precious relationship with switzerland, and both european and swiss citizens, businesses, researchers and scientists deserve better than a lack of prospects. we should aim for ambition and future development. at the same time, ensuring a level playing field is clearly essential. privileged access to the single market must mean abiding by the same rules and obligations, and i would like to reassure all of you that we are determined to find a way for our bilateral relationship to work the best. to answer mr picula’s concrete question on the rights of croatian citizens, i would like to reassure you that we are of course following the issue extremely closely. we have raised this issue several times in the relevant joint committee. however, due to the absence of a dispute settlement mechanism, the legal avenues at our disposal remain very limited. but still, this will be part of the audit the commission services have been tasked to complete. to conclude, i would like to say that i absolutely agree with all of you that we must uphold the rights of workers and citizens. but i would add that on both sides – on the eu and the swiss side – that would be our priority for the audit and for looking for the best way possible to find solutions to this now very complex problem.
this debate on the future of relations between the european union and switzerland is therefore closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i find it worrying that we have debated in the european parliament a sovereign decision of a third country. i agree that it is very regrettable that the swiss federal government has decided not to sign the partnership agreement with the eu (officially known as the institutional framework agreement - ifa), and to close the seven-year negotiation process on it. but it is a sovereign decision of a state, made by its democratically elected institutions to protect the interests of its own citizens, and we must respect that. how can the european parliament come here to lecture and berate switzerland when the swiss federal government believes that fundamental differences between it and the eu still exist and that the conditions for concluding an agreement are not met? in my view, it is in the common interest of switzerland and the eu to maintain and develop the bilateral relationship and the existing agreements in a consistent manner, and i therefore find very surprising and reprehensible any voices that would punish switzerland for exercising its sovereignty by suspending the existing agreements.
in writing. the conclusion by switzerland of the negotiations on a new partnership agreement that have been ongoing since 2014 is undoubtedly a major blow for the european commission and will bring with it problems on many levels. it should be noted that switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner, although this is not only about trade, but also about other sectors, such as medicine, transport and energy. but the most important aspect of this case is the political aspect. the swiss withdrew from the talks, citing three main issues: exemption from state aid rules, access for eu citizens to the swiss social assistance system and protection of higher salaries paid in switzerland. please note that switzerland is not a member of the european union and that asking it to make concessions in these areas would naturally provoke resistance from the public and it would ultimately be the public who would decide whether to enter into force the new agreement by referendum. perhaps, after the uk leaves the eu, this situation should act as the proverbial "cold water jug" for the eu, and make it wonder whether the proliferation of bureaucratic regulations, the attempt to centrally control almost every aspect of life from brussels, and the constant looking at the hands of not only the member states but also the associated countries, is really the best way forward.
in writing. switzerland has announced that it will withdraw from the seven-year negotiation of a cooperation agreement with the european union. the situation is poor, given the close links between switzerland and the european union. in trade, as in many other areas. the european commission has said that if the framework agreement with switzerland fails, it does not intend to proceed with the conclusion of other bilateral agreements and plans to renew only those that are absolutely necessary. but that means that all the bilateral agreements are slowly becoming obsolete. for example, the mutual recognition agreement on medical devices has already expired, making trade in this area more difficult. the european commission has taken a very tough approach towards switzerland, saying that during the negotiations since 2014, it has tried to be completely irresponsible, but there is a limit to everything. the commission's position is that no further progress will be made with the other agreements. but looking at the bigger picture, the eu must protect its friends and close partners. this is clearly also the case for switzerland. either way, we'll keep the doors open for solutions. it is important that the lives of both eu and swiss citizens are not made more difficult by these differences.
the next item on the agenda is also a joint debate on common provisions and cohesion policy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) to be established by the european parliament and the council. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. finally, a recommendation for second reading by mr arimont on specific provisions relating to the european territorial cooperation goal (interreg) financed by the european regional development fund and external financing instruments 2021-2027 [05488/1/2021 - c9-0192/2021- 2018/0199 (cod) ] (a9-0205/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, i am sure that many of you follow closely the development of cohesion policy and the sgp, even without being part of the committee on regional development. i have heard many legends about how european legislation is passed, even before i was an mep. but the truth is that with this regulation we did not just draw up european legislation, we did not just write a law. i think we have written the history of the european union for the next 10 years, the history of the 500 million people who have chosen to live on this continent. we have learned a number of lessons from the adoption of this regulation, one of which is that the european budget has wrongly divided the countries into those who pay into the budget and those who receive from it. i am sure we are all agreed that there are no net payers and no net beneficiaries, only net earners from the european budget. i am sure we all realise that investments on the black sea coast help trade on the atlantic coast, that building a project on one side of europe helps a better way of life on the other side of europe. and that is the magic of cohesion policy. this is something we need to explain more and more. we have only recently learned about another benefit of european cohesion policy that we hadn't even suspected: that it not only makes people's lives better, but also saves them. with all due respect to all other union policies, the cohesion policy saved lives when it was at its most difficult. just a year ago, when we didn't know what we were up against, the states got 37 billion dollars from this policy. that's when people realized that europe was behind them, when with that money they could buy masks, alcohol, respirators to save lives. we learned other lessons. many people rightly feel that cohesion policy is complex, too administrative and too bureaucratic. we've heard these voices, i've heard especially the voices of those people who say, "i'd rather take a bank loan and pay it back with interest than sign up for a complex project that i don't know if it's going to get approved". that is why we have made cohesion policy more comprehensible, more effective and at the same time risk-based. better beneficiaries deserve less control and checks, and at the same time, the riskier ones, more, to ensure that every cent of european money, which comes from european taxpayers, is going to the right direction. it was very important that we introduced increasingly digital rules and transparency, so that everyone could see how the funds were being spent. moreover, i think this regulation is worth a lot more than the 330 billion we have written in it. it will generate much more, it will make europe competitive again worldwide. i think he's the kind of driver we need to get through this crisis that we're in. and here i have something i want to say to everyone in this room and to everyone in the european commission. we have to get better, explain why cohesion policy is not obsolete, why the rule of law is not just a necessity but an integral part of it, explain the benefits, explain that one euro that came from germany to romania will then go back half way there and make life better in both countries. only then will we understand that we cannot be rich with poor neighbours, and we will make europe the best place in the world to live. and finally, on a personal note, one day when i leave this institution, this will be one of the things i'm most proud of. by all of you, by the european commission, by the european commissioner, by all of the coordinating colleagues and members of this parliament, we have made europe the best place to live, thanks to what we have done, and that these 330 billion will go to every single european. there's just one sentence i'd like to add. with what we are going to do today, we can walk with our heads held high in the knowledge that what we promised three years ago and five presidencies ago has been fulfilled on time today.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. we are negotiating today or discussing today and voting on the cohesion policy for the next seven years. what are we talking about? we're talking about a €330 billion financial package if you include react-eu and the just transition fund and a lot more money. and we can be really satisfied with this budget after difficult budgetary negotiations. i would like to thank those who have not allowed us to accept drastic cuts in cohesion policy. in return, i believe that what we are presenting today has made it clear that cohesion policy is indeed a modern policy capable of meeting the new challenges that the european union and its regions will face in the coming years. i am glad that after much discussion it is clear that all regions can participate in this cohesion policy, depending on their needs. i am glad that the negotiations have succeeded in actually implementing the needs of the regions by really de-bureaucratising, by really making sure that it is easier for applicants to submit applications and that it is easier for the administration to actually submit the large amount of information that has to be submitted. it is certainly very important for the regions to know that we have succeeded in negotiating the cofinancing rates to keep them as close as possible to the level of the last period of support, which is now ending. i think this is helpful for all involved, because otherwise cities, municipalities and regions would not always - especially after such a pandemic - be able to raise the necessary co-financing. what are we trying to achieve? we have narrowed down our priorities and are focusing on a smarter europe, a greener, lower-carbon europe, a better and more connected europe, a social europe and a europe closer to citizens. and with these priorities, we can also ensure that the citizens of this european union see much better how europe is addressing their problems and helping to solve those issues. the commission has always been very concerned about the economic situation in the community, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the negotiations were no less difficult. but we have reached a compromise whereby the macroeconomic conditionality is suspended until 2023 or until the stability and growth pact is reinstated. the european social fund and the interreg programme are completely exempt from this macroeconomic conditionality and parliament can enter into a structured dialogue with the commission. and i think it is important, particularly from the point of view of a parliament, to be involved in this dialogue. i am sorry that i did not understand what my co-rapporteur, mr andrey novakov, said, because i have no interpretation and i do not speak bulgarian very well. i think we have been very much in favour of the visibility of cohesion policy in the future, together with the co-rapporteur, being much more visible, much more outward looking. i think it is important for the image of the european union in the regions and for the feelings in the regions that we can make it clear: europe does not leave its citizens alone! i think we have also made great progress in the area of control - the single audit. the member states which cooperate with the european public prosecutor have much easier conditions for control than those which do not. it is very important for me personally - and i think also for the whole parliament - that cohesion policy is clearly geared towards supporting the green deal. the commission has also proposed that 30% of the european regional fund and 37% of the cohesion fund be used for projects to combat climate change. but we also care about social europe, and that is why i am personally very pleased that we have been able to push through a horizontal article, which includes fundamental rights, equality, anti-discrimination, the sustainability objectives, environmental protection and just energy transition, and that these points are therefore enshrined in an article of the regulation as well as the principle do no significant harm. climate proofing is intended to ensure that projects are compatible with climate neutrality by 2050. and a stronger partnership principle is a concern of this parliament, which we have always been committed to. we have also made that happen, so i can recommend that we support this cohesion policy.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three years of work: from 2018-2019 to the biennium 2020-2021. thanks to the contribution of valuable colleagues in the regi committee, whom i would like to thank, starting with the shadow rapporteurs, all the colleagues in the regi committee, a unified atmosphere in the regi committee, commissioner ferreira who has accompanied us over the last two years, the staff, and today we can hand over the new erdf and cohesion fund regulations. a regulation that is more innovative in content and methods, more simplified in governance, and more consistent with the history of cohesion policy. a powerful tool in the hands of european citizens and states, regions, cities and local communities. after next generation eu, it is the most powerful financial tool that we are putting in place as the european union to counter the growing territorial inequalities, inequalities that have exploded and grown with the ongoing crisis of the pandemic and that are territorial, gender and generational inequalities. we are trying to give an answer, with this new regulation, to create a new social balance, more sustainable, more equitable and more just in europe in the years to come. the choices and priorities we have concentrated on are some that i want to point out and mention. first of all, the social pillar. we have chosen to accept the challenge that around the social pillar we can help to build a new health system in our europe. the great theme of housing, especially for the most difficult areas and most exposed to the social crisis; and then there's the big environmental challenge. we have concentrated 30% of the resources of the new fund there. we are thus contributing to a decisive breakthrough in the circular economy, waste and environmental services: a programme of urban regeneration and redevelopment; parks, protected areas, the main players in the new cohesion policy; the end of the fossil fuel economy, except for gas, for heating until 2025. and finally, the third big choice is the digital revolution, connectivity and mobility. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the directive is not intended to protect workers from the risks related to asbestos. we want to create the conditions so that no territory in europe, no citizen in europe, can be left out of connectivity and connection and for this reason also the relaunch of rail networks around cities, within cities but also over long distances. finally, also in the light of the covid emergency, the great choice to lend a hand, a support, to two great vectors fundamental to the growth of our europe in the coming years: sustainable tourism and culture. we do this by investing a lot of resources, more than 243 billion euros, the most powerful european programme. combined with national and regional co-financing and private investment, we can mobilise more than eur 400-450 billion. it's a breakthrough, it can be a breakthrough! together with next generation eu, it can be a valuable opportunity to create the conditions for a new, more sustainable and socially fair development in our territories and, above all, to challenge the regions that have suffered most from austerity policies in recent years, which have suffered from a social point of view from a distance from the centre of europe. we are offering them a new opportunity, a new chance to be protagonists in the new european policy. so cohesion policy is trying to respond, even historically, to its function and role. let's not waste this opportunity! this is the invitation and appeal we would like to make to all of you, because now the most difficult part of the game, the implementation, is about to begin: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. this is the challenge of defining regional, metropolitan and national programmes. let's not waste this great opportunity. together with next generation eu we can really make a contribution to building a new europe. i believe that it is essential to have a great dialogue with the social forces, with the younger generations, but especially with the social forces: we are building innovative programmes at local level by engaging with the social forces, the business community, the trade unions, the youth and the university community. that is the effort that lies ahead. that's not all. there is a long way to go, but it is a good start to build a breakthrough from a european point of view.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are talking a lot about the future of europe: what can be done better? what do we have to do differently? where do we need to be more efficient? it is also worthwhile to discuss the things that are already working very well within the eu. unfortunately, we often find ourselves focusing on the negative and forgetting to talk about the many good and useful initiatives and all the enormous benefits that the european union brings to every single citizen every day. and that is precisely the success story of european territorial cooperation made possible by this interreg programme. i am speaking here from very concrete experience in my region in the east of belgium - a region which borders three european countries and which, thanks to interreg, is creating joint projects and a great many meetings between the people of these regions. i know how difficult it is for citizens on these three frontier regions to cope with everyday life, how complicated it is. interreg is creating a europe in miniature, a europe between citizens of different nations, a europe of encounters, also on an equal footing as joint project partners. i would like to mention three very concrete examples which illustrate very well what interreg is capable of: for example, there is the home-made project called 'emrod', in which police forces from belgium, the netherlands and germany join forces to tackle cross-border crime. the project makes a valuable contribution to the fight against illegal drug trafficking and organised crime, which as we know, do not stop at the borders. here, belgian, german and dutch police officers work together, of course, on a daily basis. they're sitting in an office. they know each other as they should. a second example is the franco-german kindergarten or the kindergarten in strasbourg/kehl. there are 30 children from strasbourg and 30 children from kehl who go to a nursery together. they are supported by bilingual educators from both countries. they playfully teach the children the language of their neighbour and they become europeans of tomorrow. the third example is the joint patient care between lower austria and south bohemia with a cross-border health centre. the interreg-supported project healthhacross for future enables czech partners or patients to have direct access to treatment at the landesklinikum gmünd in lower austria. especially in emergencies, this cooperation is a real boon for the people of the region, because on the czech side the nearest emergency centre is several kilometres away and the austrian hospital is much closer. these three concrete examples show how interreg has turned border regions into community areas, and has done so very successfully. and i think that's what interreg has been doing for over 30 years, making it so important for the citizens of the eu. and it is precisely because we know the enormous advantage of this european programme that we have worked very hard, as the committee on regional development and as the european parliament as a whole, to improve the programme and make it more efficient for the people, on the one hand, and to preserve the positive aspects that have characterized this programme for decades, on the other. let me briefly touch on some of the innovations we've been able to achieve: the first is the small project fund, which makes it possible for associations to carry out very meaningful small projects across borders. secondly, in the thematic focus we have defined things that are important that we should support. and there's the healthcare thing, which i've been bringing up again and again, to do things together across borders in healthcare -- and not least covid-19 has shown how important that is. the third point is that we have reduced the administrative burden on the project promoters considerably. we also increased the pre-financing a little so that project promoters themselves do not have to borrow when they want to start projects. so overall we have produced a good text, and i would like to thank all the negotiating partners here in parliament for their support for my report and the subsequent negotiations with the member states, because this result, which is finally before us for a vote today, was a team effort by many people, by many colleagues. and i could now name all the shadow reporters here individually. i would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the really always constructive and transparent cooperation. i would also like to thank the european commission, and especially commissioner ferreira, who has been very active in supporting us with her services and her know-how in all these steps, so that we can have a better text at the end. in this sense, we have made it clear that we can pull together - and do so across party lines - to strengthen, support and improve a really good and meaningful european cause - this interreg programme. i think we all did. and i thank you all for that.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, today’s vote on the cohesion policy legislative package for 2021—2027 comes at the end of a very unusual year, a very challenging year. but any law, any policy is only as good as it fits the times in which it is written, as it serves the needs of our citizens, as it creates positive change. this is why we have adapted our policies to build back a stronger europe, a more resilient europe, a more cohesive europe. these objectives are more relevant than ever because the pandemic poses a great risk of deepening disparities and creating new divergences between european regions. europe needs cohesion to be at the core of the recovery and to remain a priority. today’s debate and the adoption of new cohesion policy instruments are therefore of historic importance. they will lay the groundwork for balanced regional development after covid, where everyone has a fair chance to reap the benefits of membership of the union. moreover, the new generation of cohesion funds will help regions to embark on the twin transition, both digital and green. my warm thanks to the european parliament for your constructive approach throughout all the negotiations and for standing up for our treaty objectives. my special thanks to the rapporteurs, constanze krehl, andrey novakov, andrea cozzolino and pascal arimont. this gratitude is also extended to all the members involved as shadow rapporteurs and those contributing with amendments, both in the lead and associated committees. merci beaucoup aussi au président omarjee pour la très, très bonne coopération et pour ses efforts permanents en faveur des régions européennes. investments without strategy are ineffective, strategies and policies without the means to implement them are empty, and policies and investment without a territorial basis are blind. cohesion policy offers the opportunity to bring together these three elements: the strategy, the means and the place—based method. what is more, this is a package delivering simplification and empowerment to the beneficiaries of cohesion funds. first, thanks to a simplified single rulebook, we are one step closer to 21st century data—driven checks and accountability. secondly, it introduces horizontal principles in line with our principles and values, throughout the programming period. thirdly, local communities and local actors are placed at the centre of policymaking and funds management, respecting the partnership principle. local people must be involved in local development. i believe that, working together, we have found the right balance between our objectives and priorities, between the urban and rural dimension, and between supporting growth poles and developing disadvantaged areas. finally, for interreg, common investment in border areas will ensure the necessary support for people, small and medium companies, and make sure that borders are not barriers to growth and development. any given law or instrument is also only as good as its implementation so the real work begins now. it is important that implementation starts without delay. working together with the other instruments of support and recovery measures, lasting impact can only be achieved if all the policies and instruments work together in synergy for a stronger, resilient and more cohesive union, where no one, and no region, is in fact, and in reality, left behind. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! we need to answer the question of what the debate is about. this debate is about the several hundred billion euros that will, over the next seven years, - thanks to cohesion policy - reach beneficiaries throughout the european union, including beneficiaries in my own country. this money will finance large, ambitious energy transition projects as well as small renewable energy projects. this money will finance broadband internet projects as well as small infrastructure projects that will improve the quality of life for people in communities across the european union. that is why i have a great request and appeal to the governments of the member states and to the regional authorities to complete the work on the operational programmes as soon as possible and to introduce the greatest possible simplifications for the beneficiaries who will use this money, to launch this money as soon as possible for the beneficiaries, including local governments, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are today a pillar of the european economy and which are so strongly affected by the effects of the economic crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic. and i have a great request, an appeal also to the beneficiaries who will use this money to carry out very ambitious undertakings, ambitious projects that will make our place here on earth, europe, a healthier, a cleaner, a more comfortable place to live not only for us, but for future generations.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, i would like to commend the work of all the rapporteurs from our entire committee on regional development during these two years of negotiations, to congratulate the romanian, finnish, croatian, german and portuguese presidencies with whom we have negotiated a total of 23 trilogues and to thank commissioner ferreira for her very constructive participation in all our meetings. we have all been able to come together to modernise and simplify cohesion and make it the first pillar of the green pact. we have seen that europe can die for lack of solidarity. it will overcome the present difficulties by means of greater cohesion and convergence. this is the objective of the structural funds, which helped europe to build itself yesterday and will help it to rebuild itself now. cohesion, just transition, recovery: resources have never been so important and they must now be directed, in the regions, towards good complementarity for the best programming of the funds: this is the challenge we now face.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very good day for the european parliament. we will agree on the allocation of 330 billion - european funds, structural funds and cohesion funds for all the member states of the european union, for the next seven years. this money will be used to upgrade roads, railways, improve energy infrastructure, digital infrastructure, small and medium-sized enterprises, upgrade schools and prepare young people for the future. thanks to the european parliament, access to european funds will be easier in the coming years. thanks to the involvement of the european parliament, we were able to secure a european co-financing rate of 85% for the least developed regions and we were able to secure the principle that up to 5% of funds can be allocated from one programme to another, depending on needs, i.e. flexibility - the money can be used where it is needed. we, the european parliament, have done our job. it is now the responsibility of member state governments to submit operational programmes as soon as possible so that they can be approved by the commission and european funds can reach people as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the entire team of the parliament, and also the commission. indeed, after three years of intensive negotiations, a very good outcome for our citizens in all our regions in the european union could be achieved, with the s&d group leading the main dossier and three big success points. first, investments will be more digital, leading to smart innovation, quality jobs, sustainable growth and support for small and medium enterprises to make all our regions fit for the future, especially after the covid-19 crisis. second, investments will be more climate friendly for a sustainable future for the current generation and also for the next generation. last but not least, investments will become more social democratic with a focus on social infrastructure, with integration measures for a better social life altogether, and more gender equality and democratic principles, including the partnership principle and the european pillar of social rights.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the far right, we believe that reaching out to others is a constructive approach and that it is the best way of building the future. this is also the spirit and the strength of this interreg programme for the environment, for infectious diseases, for employment, for innovation, and also for safeguarding our traditional know-how: throughout europe, interreg is breaking down the barriers of geography. playing the regional cooperation card means playing on our common destiny, which is why we have opened new doors for and with overseas. so i want to say to those whose only political project is to isolate us, to teach our children to hate others, that we will always fight the walls of extremism and we will always work together. we will share solutions to build that brotherhood that we need to succeed in the challenges of today and tomorrow.
madam president, the erdf is a pillar of the european union's regional policy and represents almost a quarter of the european budget. its funds are essential to finance projects in regions and cities, but it is time it was fully in line with the climate emergency and biodiversity collapse, aligned with the goals of the green deal and stopped funding large, unnecessary and destructive projects. the final text is not what we dreamed of, but it is a compromise that has the merit of existing and that makes it possible to have the greenest erdf in history: 30% of the erdf funds will be used to stimulate a greener europe, increase investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility and biodiversity. it will also support social inclusion and social housing. this erdf will also be the one to end support for fossil fuels. we would have preferred an immediate end, which will be in 2025 and funding will be limited by then. finally, this new erdf will help to reduce disparities between regions and to strengthen cohesion within the european union.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, democracy has been confiscated in this house, the supposed temple of tolerance, human rights and the environment. you have already proved this to us by exempting yourselves from the d'hondt law and you have reiterated it in the committee on regional development by resorting to a vote of no-confidence for the erdf, which, in order to help our fellow citizens overseas, amounting to 1.5 billion, has forced us to vote 11.3 billion for migrants, those millions of human beings who are victims of smugglers, modern-day slaves, low-cost labour from multinational companies who, thanks to your treaties, are getting richer and richer, contributing to global warming, to the destruction of our planet, our nations and our peoples. these procedures are the result of insidious and insidious totalitarianism and we shall now combat this political schizophrenia.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, during the public consultation on the european union funds in the field of cohesion, our citizens asked us to reform our cohesion policy and to build simplified, flexible tools that serve the broad objectives of our union. after more than two years of intensive negotiations, we can say that this bet is won. today we are putting cohesion policy in the hands of our citizens and local and regional authorities with a budget that is up to the challenge. a greener cohesion policy, capable of contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the green deal. a cohesion policy that strengthens european sovereignty, particularly in strategic sectors such as health and digital. a simplified, more flexible, more visible cohesion policy that brings our citizens closer to our institutions. a cohesion policy that does not forget the most vulnerable groups and that promotes gender equality. finally, a cohesion policy that accompanies the most fragile and remote regions of the continent, leaving no territory on the sidelines. cohesion policy is one of the best examples of european integration. in europe, every three minutes a project is funded by eu funds and tangible benefits are brought to the daily lives of europeans. with this renewed cohesion policy, we can once again say to our fellow citizens: europe is here.
madam president, commissioner for justice, the libe committee i chair has approved the owninitiative report by our rapporteur, mr domènec ruiz devesa, with a large majority: 49 votes in favour, 10 against and 4 abstentions. it is a strong message of support for the valuable content of this first occasion on which the commission is fulfilling a mandate, also given to it by the libe committee, to establish a rule of law framework which, in an objective, permanent, regular and, above all, preventive manner, examines the 27 member states. and the messages of this report are aimed at improving the one that comes in 2021 and the ones that follow, including the spectrum of the fight against corruption and the commitment to information pluralism. but there is a second message, namely that the preventive assessment of the legislation of the 27 member states cannot blur, let alone reduce, the pressure on those member states which have been in a systematic violation of the rule of law in the european union: hungary and poland, which have been singled out by the article 7 procedure, which has also been voted on by a large majority in this european parliament. this latest attack on the values of the union by hungary in this anti-lgbtqi law is particularly intolerable and constitutes an offensive against article 21, which enshrines non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation as a fundamental right of all europeans. now that the conference on the future of europe is being launched, we can only hope that the european union we want for the future will be able to prevent and correct more effectively any member state which openly and flagrantly challenges the values of the rule of law and the law of the union by repeatedly disobeying the judgments of the court of justice.
madam president, the european commission and the european parliament now produce an annual report on the rule of law in the union and this is essential. member states in the council are also beginning to get a little more into the habit of dealing with these issues and questioning the deterioration of the rule of law in some countries. it's about time! it is regrettable that in all those years interest rates and banking were high on the political agenda, far ahead of concern for the rights and freedoms of citizens in what should be healthy and secure european democracies. but if all this is discussed in a very general and abstract way, without ever mentioning names and details, without ever proposing recommendations, without ever anticipating the sanctions that could make it all effective and without distinguishing the different levels of deterioration in different countries, then it would be nonsense and a shame. corruption, media censorship, the prosecution of judges, police violence, the exclusion of certain communities - all these are not light subjects for idle conversations over coffee.
madam president, the rule of law: if these three words mean respect for the law, they conceal an autocratic ideology here in this house. they make a mockery of democracy and serve as an alibi for serious attacks on the sovereignty of states. the text we are discussing today, even if it does not say so explicitly, has only one objective: to serve as a basis for the most subtle attacks against the governments of two member states, although largely elected and re-elected by their respective peoples. this is of course poland and hungary. firstly, autocratic ideology, because you cannot tolerate that people have a different view of the family, their roots and their identity from your progressive ideology. secondly, it is a mockery of democracy, because the policies you condemn and which we support, namely the rejection of migrants and the defence of the values which have made european civilization, are the will of the people. the sovereignty of the member states is at stake, because it is up to the nations and the nations alone to choose their model. to our polish and hungarian friends, we say: hold on. we would like to remind the brussels authorities, as general de gaulle said: 'the supreme court is the people'.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, thank you for voting for these amendments 8, 10 and 11. on behalf of the renew group, i propose that you refer this matter to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for interinstitutional negotiations, in accordance with rule 74 of the rules of procedure.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sex education, contraception and abortion have been central to women's emancipation since the beginning of time. they participate in the fundamental right to health, the achievement of equality between women and men and the elimination of gender-based violence. in 1979 our assembly elected simone veil, a pioneer of women's rights and a european icon, as the first president of our assembly. and yet, in 2021, 15 million women in europe still do not have access to safe and legal abortion, and several member states are implementing policies that restrict access to sexual and reproductive rights. we also have to deal with ultraconservative anti-gender movements that spend hundreds of millions of euros to push back against these rights, like the dolls or the leaflets we all received a few days ago. these movements accuse us of promoting abortion with this report. that's absolutely not true. to quote simone veil: abortion must remain the exception, the last resort. this report covers contraception, sex education and prevention. but in a country where abortion is illegal, it is illegal, dangerous and unfair. legalizing abortion is first and foremost a health and social justice issue that must be accompanied by education and prevention. today we have the opportunity to change history. we have the opportunity to make our voices heard and to give hope to the thousands of europeans who have taken to the streets and squares to demand that a fundamental right to life for women be guaranteed. today we have the opportunity to show that we are stronger than these ultraconservative movements. that is why i ask you to vote tomorrow on the predrad fred matić report and to reject the counter-proposals put forward by the ecr and epp groups. no vote must be lost, abstention is not the answer. it's our body, our choices, our rights.
mr president, these tampons and towels, we have them all in our bags. it is an object that seems to us all trivial. and yet, it is a luxury for 20% of women! 20% of women say they had to choose between a pack of pasta and a pack of towels. choosing between eating and staying clean is called menstrual instability. have you ever wondered what would happen if men had their periods and not women? well, according to gloria steinem, then rules would become a source of pride. men would boast of the duration and flow, and most importantly, the government would provide the funds for free sanitary protection. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us change the rules: let us abolish vat on periodic protection throughout europe, let us put free dispensers in every school, college, university, social centre and pharmacy to make them available to everyone, including the most vulnerable. my dear colleagues, menstruation is not an option, being clean is not a luxury, let's eradicate the precariousness of menstruation. that is also why we must vote for the matić report.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in nairobi in november 2019, more than 1 200 commitments were made around one goal: to accelerate the empowerment of girls and women. how did you do that? with universal access to contraception, family planning, sex education and especially the global fight against all types of gender violence, and many others. among the major absentees from these commitments were mr trump's united states, brazil, belarus and two of our member states. despite this, the nairobi commitments had brought a new global dynamic. the arrival of the pandemic has changed the world and especially the lives of women. they are suffering from a 'double pandemic', as mr antónio guterres has said. the figures speak for themselves: domestic violence has increased by 25% worldwide, 11 million girls are at risk of dropping out of school, 1.4 million unwanted pregnancies have had to be terminated. in addition, some governments have seized the opportunity to impose their conservative ideology by de facto banning voluntary termination of pregnancy, by withdrawing from the istanbul convention and by imposing restrictions on the use of abortion as a means of contraception. so, more than a year and a half after the summit, it seems appropriate to ask you, commissioner, what concrete measures have been put in place and what funding is planned for these issues in the framework of 'global europe', while a new 'gender action plan' has been launched. europe, with its feminist diplomacy, inspires other nations with its strong positions and its legislation, but to remain credible, it requires a joint commitment from the union and all our member states. my dear colleagues, our feminist diplomacy must be carried by each of us. the involvement of men and boys is crucial to achieving a new model of society. next week in paris will be the forum génération égalité. calls on the european union, all governments, organisations and civil society to mobilise so that every girl and boy can find their place in society and flourish in respect and dignity for each individual. to build a true generation equality.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, better regulation is the commission’s regulatory policy that allows political decisions to be prepared in an open, transparent manner informed by the best available evidence and backed by the comprehensive involvement of stakeholders. i appreciate that this role is fully recognised in the report. this is necessary to ensure that the union’s interventions respect the overarching principles of subsidiarity and proportionality – that is acting only where necessary at eu level, and in a way that does not go beyond what is needed to resolve the problem. the commission’s better regulation rules require the commission to carry out a subsidiarity analysis when proposing new measures and european added value of existing measures. moreover, even when the union acts, it must do so in a proportionate way. we share the views of the european parliament that the application of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality within the better regulation framework represents the starting point for any policy formulation, and is an essential part of the policy lifecycle. the commission also agrees that national parliaments should be involved as early as possible in the legislative process. the subsidiarity control mechanism and our political dialogue with national parliaments are appropriate instruments for making this involvement possible. the great number of opinions received by the commission from national parliaments that raise policy issues and provide forward—looking political inputs, independently of existing commission proposals, show their interest in being actors in eu policy—making beyond the subsidiarity control exercise. some national parliaments also replied to public consultations launched by the commission before the adoption of the proposal. we see this very positively. we welcome the support given by parliament to our effort to consult as widely as possible with stakeholders prior to any legislative proposal. the new ‘communication on better regulation: joining forces to make better laws’ has further improved the system of consultation by making it easier to provide input through a single call for evidence on our ‘have your say’ portal and through clear questions, whilst respecting the prerequisites of european social partners. i appreciate that parliament supports our efforts to keep simple, easy to implement and effective legislation through the refit programme and the newly set up fit for future platform. legislation must remain fit for purpose and deliver its benefits at minimum costs. this commission has introduced also the ‘one in, one out’ approach that will offset new burdens resulting from the commission’s proposals by reducing existing burdens in the same policy area. the goal is also to compensate adjustment costs across policy areas to the extent possible. the commission will implement the ‘one in, one out’ approach by building on its existing better regulation practices, making sure that it has leeway to propose legislation when necessary. while the approach brings good incentives, it cannot be applied mechanically as indicated in your report. it will by no means reduce our environmental or social economic standards and the implementation of this approach will therefore not run counter to the objectives of better regulation, but rather be applied within the better regulation context. concerning the independence of the commission’s regulatory scrutiny board, i want to reassure the european parliament that this is fully in line with the oecd’s recommendation on regulatory policy. the board is established by a decision of the president of the commission which sets out the independence of the board. concerning the number of impact assessments examined by the regulatory scrutiny board in 2019, it corresponds to the end of the mandate of the previous commission, hence a limited number of legislative proposals.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 24 june 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the exercise of the powers of the eu institutions is governed by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in article 5 teu protects the decision-making and acting capacity of the member states, which means that decisions should be taken at the most appropriate political level, as close as possible to the citizens and businesses. the principle of proportionality requires that the action of the union institutions be limited to what is necessary in order to achieve the objectives of the treaties. the report on the appropriateness of eu legislation, the validity of subsidiarity and the proportionality of eu measures is an important tool for monitoring the exercise of powers by the eu institutions. the global crisis has revealed the importance of reducing regulatory burdens. over-regulation is a barrier to economic recovery, especially in the small business sector and micro-enterprises. the objectives and results of improving the quality of legislation should also be regularly reviewed and evaluated in this area. the european union is founded on the rule of law, so the eu institutions must respect the legislative principles laid down in the treaties, and their actions must be consistent with the treaties, which have been adopted by the member states voluntarily and democratically. political and ideological biases have no place, because they undermine the principle of uniform, equal treatment, and destroy the credibility of institutions. the eu institutions, which are committed to upholding the rule of law in their member states, should set an example by following these principles themselves.
the sitting is closed and will resume at 8.30 a.m. tomorrow with the debate on the report by mr guteland on the european climate law. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, today is a historic day. today, we will enshrine into law that the eu, which started as a coal and steel union more than 70 years ago, will become the first carbon—neutral continent by 2050 at the latest. with this law the eu maintains its leadership as the region with the most ambitious targets for climate. the climate crisis is the one issue our children will judge us upon in the future. they already do. today, we are all stuck in the fossil economy. a large share of our emissions comes from a few countries, a relatively few individuals, but all of us emit. and the consequences – the heatwaves, the floods, the forest fires – they are felt by all of us. unless we rapidly cut our emissions, the science is crystal clear: the future will be catastrophic. during the past months, i had the honour of leading the european parliament’s team in the negotiations with the commission and the member states. it has been difficult and very intense but i am very happy to be present here today with our agreement. increased ambition for 2030, negative emissions after 2050, a new target in 2040, a greenhouse gas budget on the way and a climate advisory board are all important wins for the european parliament. the new climate law strengthens the ambition of the eu’s climate target. perhaps the most contentious issue was the target for 2030. all of you know that. we have agreed on reduced emissions by at least 55% compared with 1990. this includes negative emissions, so-called sinks, and we also got a separate agreement on an increased level of ambition for europe’s sinks. that will mean in practice that the 2030 climate target will mean almost 57%. in addition, by setting a cap on how much sinks can count towards the 2030 target, we also made sure that the priority is right, that the reduction is in focus. with our insistence we made sure that the 2030 target is more ambitious and the climate law is more fit for purpose in that sense. the long-term goal is climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. after 2050, emissions will be negative. to ensure that everyone does their fair share, member states must report their progress every second year. on the way to 2030, we now have an intermediate target for 2040 and a greenhouse gas budget. the greenhouse gas budget will make sure that we will not leave future generations to bear the burden. the emissions must go down here and now if we are to live up to the paris agreement. a final important win is that science is now at the heart of the eu policy. through the brand new independent european scientific advisory board on climate change, this binding law will be constantly evaluated to make sure that enough action is taken in light of the most recent science. this will push the climate law to be a very important one. i also know that the climate law will not only make sure that we are doing more, that we actually also make the sectoral legislation fit for purpose. it will also push for innovation and create more jobs in europe. this is good news also for our future in that sense. it is not a secret that i wanted more: even more ambition for the climate, even sharper targets for 2030, a binding 2050 carbon-neutrality target on the member state level. that is sure. but i can assure each and every one of you that i have left no stone unturned to get as ambitious a climate law as possible. not just during the final 14 hours of negotiations, but throughout each and every one of our six trilogues. the alternative is not a more ambitious law. those who vote against it today, they vote in favour of the old climate policies. they vote against climate neutrality. they vote for much lower targets for 2030 and they vote against the climate advisory board. it is easy to yell for more from the side, but its much harder to take responsibility and make a true difference. i am also convinced that the climate law has the potential of being even more ambitious in the future. the climate law is like a new-born baby, with a good character, with a very strong foundation, that has the potential to grow into a very, very strong law, also in the future. now starts the journey forward, where we need to go from word to action. we need to do more in one decade than we have done in the previous three decades together. under the green deal, we must begin the socially inclusive and just transition to a sustainable economy. everyone must take responsibility, but no one can be left behind. we now go from the time of promises to the time of action. and i want to call on the european commission when coming in a few days with its proposals for the fit for 2030 package, i want to make sure and push so that the proposals that will translate the climate law provisions into sector—specific legislation will be ambitious, future—proof and socially just. i want to conclude by thanking everyone involved in this journey. i want to thank pedro lourtie from the portuguese presidency for your very good push and for being a very strong negotiator, but also very fair. i want to also thank executive vice-president frans timmermans for every constructive negotiation we had together. thank you so much. i want to thank the entire negotiating team, including the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and the shadows for not giving up. thank you also to the staff in the envi secretariat and the s&d group. i want to mention all of you of course, but i will say nicolás, pedro and iratxe, who worked so hard all of you. i also want to personally thank my advisor eleanna and my assistant tobias for always coming with smart solutions in difficult times. of course markus i don’t forget you who came in the end and made sure we still had energy at the very last trilogue. in the end i also want to thank all of those who were not there but who are doing so much for the climate. i want to thank the youth movements for raising their voices, the scientists for pointing at the facts. i want to also thank everyone who does that little extra in their daily lives and think about climate. there are those who wanted to give up on climate action during the pandemic. there are those who always talk in favour of climate action but back down as soon as there is a concrete proposal on the table. today we will show that we are a majority that stands up for the climate and stands up on the right side of history. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - i have to go. we won't know the effects of climate law for a few years or a dozen years. can climate objectives really be reconciled with preserving, or even increasing, the competitiveness of the european economy and modernising? will such ambitious targets not lead to higher energy prices and energy poverty for a large proportion of european societies? my colleague guteland thinks otherwise. but we can ask, will europe remain the continent with the world's leading industry? will europe still be a market economy or only a planned one? this kind of doubt is treated as heresy in the european parliament, but it is also held by representatives of european industry. this was the case in germany on tuesday at the tag der deutschen industrie, where the colossal challenge for companies and the danger of driving industry out of europe were discussed. if this is the concern of german industry, what can be said of the weaker economies than germany's, and therefore all the other eu economies. not all leaders of states, like chancellor merkel at this congress, can promise huge sums of support from the state. so, will this law not lead to a two-speed europe, to a division between those who can afford to spend such huge sums and everyone else? and will europe still be a continent of peace and prosperity?
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear commissioner, madam rapporteur, honourable members, today is a special day indeed. you will approve the first european climate law and later you will receive here in this plenary the recently elected secretary—general of the united nations. there are no coincidences. this is a unique moment for europe and for the world and i’m really proud to be part of it. i really want to thank the negotiating team of the european parliament, led by the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, mr canfin, and the rapporteur, ms guteland, for the efforts and constructive spirit shown throughout the negotiations. i want to thank you for your kind words towards the portuguese presidency team. i also want to thank the commission, and in particular executive vice—president timmermans, for playing a very active and positive role in helping us reach a compromise. despite the exceptional circumstances imposed on us by the pandemic, the trilogues were conducted efficiently and the cooperation between the institutions was nothing short of exemplary. when we embarked on the negotiations, it was clear from the outset that the task was going to be challenging. the positions of the parliament and of the council were far apart on several important issues. however, very strong political will from all sides, recognising the need to act swiftly, was crucial to create momentum that led us to a successful outcome in the early hours of 21 april. the climate law regulation will guide eu climate action for decades to come. allow me to underline four main points for the council. first and foremost, it is now a legally binding, long—term target for climate neutrality by 2050. this sets the long—term direction, and to meet this objective it’s important to all eu policies. it was of the utmost importance to the council that the objective of climate neutrality was defined as a collective for the eu as a whole, in recognition of the principles of solidarity and cost effectiveness in the pursuit of our collective efforts. decarbonisation will not happen at exactly the same pace in all member states because they have different circumstances and starting points. moreover, the climate law recognises adaptation as a key component of the long—term global response to climate and provides for stronger action by the eu, by its member states, to enhance their adaptive capacity, increase resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change in line with the paris agreement. furthermore, to ensure that the eu and the member states remain on track to achieve the objectives, the climate law establishes a framework for monitoring progress. secondly, the climate law addresses the intermediate steps on its way to 2050. it sets a new, significantly increased eu target for 2030 of reducing net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% compared to the levels of 1990. the 2030 target will be implemented through the commission’s upcoming july package ‘fit for 55’, which we much look forward to. the law also contains a process for setting an intermediate climate target for 2040 to provide predictability and confidence to all economic actors. when making its legislative proposal for this target, the commission is required to publish the eu’s projected indicative greenhouse gas budget for the 2030—2050 period, which will set out the total expected emissions of the eu that the eu can produce without putting at risk its commitments under the paris agreement. the greenhouse gas budget was one of parliament’s main requests in these negotiations, and it is not a secret that it was a bit difficult for the council, but we achieved a compromise. this brings me to the third key element in the law, namely the establishment of a new european scientific advisory board on climate based on another important amendment proposed by parliament. the advisory board, an independent body of scientific experts, will serve as a point of reference for the eu on scientific knowledge on climate change. finally, let me mention the issue of sector—specific roadmaps. this was also a parliament amendment. this mandates the commission to engage with sectors that themselves choose to prepare indicative roadmaps for charting the path to climate neutrality. to conclude, i believe that the text before you today is a good agreement which sends a clear signal to european citizens and the world that the eu is strongly engaged in the fight against climate change. now starts our journey towards a more sustainable future, a journey of work and commitment. i look forward to your debate and to your vote, and if parliament approves the text today, the council intends to move forward swiftly to adopt the regulation before the end of the month. so let’s move forward together for our planet.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i want to start by congratulating both parliament and council for what i’ve experienced as one of the most constructive and forward—looking trilogues i’ve ever had the pleasure to participate in. rapporteur jytte guteland, president canfin, but also the whole portuguese team, played an essential role to get us across the line with what i believe is a historic piece of legislation. this is the law of laws. this is the law of laws because it will discipline us in the years to come to stay within the boundaries we have set, which is a reduction of at least 55% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as compared to 1990, and climate neutrality by 2050. if parliament votes for this and council then adopts the regulation, we will be leading the world. europe will be leading the world in a way that is not just about words. it is a goal we have set that is concrete and feasible: feasible on the basis of the analysis we’ve made at the commission, which was supported by both co—legislators. it sets us on a course. then, politics is politics. there will always be, as we’ve seen with the pandemic, issues that will potentially distract us from this historic responsibility of saving humanity, because that’s what we do with climate policy. but then we have the law to fall back on. we have the law to fall back on that will remain the framework, whatever distractions might occur along the way. i have to commend council – that council was prepared to take on board some of the demands of parliament that initially were completely unacceptable to many member states. parliament was also prepared to see that some of the red lines of the council needed to be respected by parliament. we live in a day and age in politics where very often compromises are derided, are seen as a sign of weakness. this compromise is a sign of incredible strength because by deciding this, europe leads the way for the rest of the world. having said that, i want to end by saying that this is not the end. this is not even the beginning of the end. this is at best the end of the beginning, because even if we have this climate law in place, which i think is a historic decision, the only real measure of our success will be whether we will be able to change the policies on all these issues, on which we will present proposals on 14 july. all these measures will then also have to be translated into changes. some of these changes will not be to the liking of some member states or some parts of the european parliament. others will be, etc., etc. i call upon the co—legislators, in this process that will last for years, to show the same spirit of cooperation and compromise that you have shown in deciding on the climate law. we do not do this for ourselves; we do this for our children and grandchildren. this is our prime responsibility. i want again to thank both co—legislators for having been so constructive. i certainly hope for a positive vote today and then a positive decision in council. this will allow us to move ahead.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, today we are voting for something historic: europe’s first climate law. even if it is a clear step forward, i regret that this law will not be enough to reach the goals of the paris agreement. to avoid disastrous climate change, we need swift and concrete action. the transport and tourism sectors are responsible for almost a third of eu greenhouse gas emissions. transport is the only sector where emissions are still increasing. to achieve the climate targets, we need a concrete roadmap for decarbonising all transport modes, in particular aviation and maritime, as they are responsible for the sharpest increase in emissions. in that regard, i expect the commission will present new legislative proposals to phase out the internal combustion engine by 2030, to introduce a kerosene tax and to ensure that railway travel is more accessible and affordable. the science is clear about what to do, now it’s time to act!
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, scientists tell us that we would need to cut our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030 to meet the paris agreement targets. a few months ago, our parliament voted for the 60% target. today we are asked to vote for a reduction of minus 53%. how can we make it happen? today, these are some points that may seem trivial to you, tomorrow, there will be more floods, more droughts, more food insecurity, more human lives lost. in my heart and soul, i cannot vote for this climate bill, which does not do what is necessary to combat climate change and goes against the paris agreement. this will not prevent us from continuing to fight for an end to fossil fuel subsidies, for mobilising european funds to support the ecological transition, for national adaptation strategies and for a genuine ecological reform of the cap. environmentalists will continue to promote a just transition that leaves no one behind, that strengthens economic, social and territorial cohesion, a transition that includes citizens, regions and urban and rural communities. our fight for climate is just beginning.
madam president, the climate bill will bring about a change in all european legislation. it will be imposed at all levels and in all sectors. with its brutal agenda, by wanting the european union to do in ten years what it has done in thirty years, it will endanger our energy sovereignty, our industry and our competitiveness in a post-covid economic context. let us not forget that, in practice, adherence to the set trajectory is one covid per year. will this profound transformation of our economies through green recovery really make us stronger? and all this to make europe the first carbon-neutral continent, as if it were a virtue contest. a european climate law is useless if the rest of the world does not follow, just look at the non-compliance with the paris agreement. worse than that, our competitors will take advantage of our weaknesses. there are still many areas of uncertainty: the calculation methods used to set emission reduction targets, the methodology, timing and place of nuclear power in the taxonomy. and let's not even talk about the colossal sums at stake that no impact study can support. more clarity is also needed on the extension of public participation, another name for the right to act for all, on the functioning of the carbon budget and on the penalties for member states that fail to meet the targets. the european union must abandon its claim to global leadership and put its ambition not at the service of the world but at the service of its citizens. because this climate bill will lead to more taxes and an increase in the energy bill and the socio-economic damage will be great. the result of the swiss vote on the co2 law, modelled on the climate law, should serve as a warning: people do not want a punitive ecology. a more realistic vision would be to use our economic power to impose our standards and defend ourselves against unfair global competition. we must relocate our companies, have a real industrial policy, regain our sovereignty, put an end to free trade agreements and defend protectionist measures. we must promote local and national solutions and reject the false promises of globalism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we owe this european climate law to our children, to the new generation, whose daily lives will be affected by climate change even more than ours. some consider this law to be too ambitious. others say it does not go far enough, that the target of 55% reduction in our emissions by 2030 is not enough. that is, whether we have found the right compromise and the middle ground. i believe that ambitious goals are only meaningful if they are achievable and become tangible. thanks to this law, and the impact study conducted by the european commission, we know what we have to ask our industries, transport, energy production and many others to do. to sink these sectors by asking them to meet unattainable targets would have been to wash our hands of them by sending them to emit co2 outside our borders. conversely, not accompanying them in this ecological transition would not help them either, because sooner or later they will be forced to evolve. and they're already doing it. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i am proud to be able to vote today in favour of this climate law. it is now up to us to do everything we can to make his purposes come true.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the concept of a just transition, which states that new climate policies must not be at the expense of workers, is a principle i support. however, its implementation is not without criticism. first, it should be borne in mind that the european commission created the just transition fund to respond to poland's strong reluctance to the european objective of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. the greatest vigilance will have to be maintained in respect of the many criteria for the allocation of funds concerning public entities, both on the 'grants' side and on the 'loans' side. on the one hand, just transition is based on the choice of eligible territories and the criteria will have to be applied with precision. three cumulative criteria will be applied: the carbon intensity of the candidate regions, the number of potential job losses and the level of national income. the first criterion is relevant, as it is the primary objective of the text, even if there is a need to agree on the term decarbonisation. the second criterion, on the other hand, confirms that it is difficult to combine social and climate policy. i would ask the commission to look specifically at the specific features of the labour market in each region concerned. in order to reach an agreement to phase out coal, negotiations will take place between each government concerned and the unions. each agreement will therefore set out early retirement schemes, training schemes and investment programmes in the most vulnerable regions. the assessment of the job loss criterion can therefore only be made at the end of these negotiations, which are often lengthy, and the commission will have to adapt to the agreements reached. it is of the utmost importance that workers and unions in these sectors have a say because every job lost will impact an entire family. i will be very vigilant on this point because france has two eligible departments: the north and the rhone estuary and these measures could harm about 153 000 jobs. the last criterion will favour the least developed regions and rural and outermost regions will have to be included in this framework. the instrument will also support projects that do not generate a sufficient flow of own resources to be commercially financed. this criterion seems to me to be unclear, since it is very difficult to predict the behaviour of banks in relation to a project in a public or private entity and, moreover, in new energy sectors. the eib's project selection will have to be highly transparent in order to ensure fairness in the distribution of loans. in conclusion, if social guarantees are necessary to support the shift towards a low-carbon economy, this fund must not be diverted in the pursuit of homogeneity at any cost.
madam president, i would like to clarify some facts regarding the slovenian selection procedure. slovenia has decided, together with the 22 eu member states, to participate in the european public prosecutor's office. it is true that the selection of candidates in slovenia is not yet complete, as it was found that there were some irregularities in the selection procedure, which led to the annulment of the initial selection. slovenia wishes to select independent and professionally qualified candidates in a transparent and legally correct procedure, in accordance with the rule of law. slovenia is committed to cooperating in the european public prosecutor's office and i am confident that it will carry out the selection process as soon as possible. the current impasse in the appointment of slovenian candidates does not in any way hamper the work of this new european body. i reject the insinuations and accusations of my colleague grozny and his colleagues and i take them as a pressure on the independence of the selection process that follows. so again, slovenia is part of the eppo story.
member of the commission. madam president, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for this debate which demonstrates the importance of setting up the european public prosecutor's office in the best possible conditions with the participation of all the member states which have chosen to join this new institution. i would like to say first of all that, as regards the situation of the slovenian delegated prosecutors, not only will i continue to ask for information and explanations on the reasons for the abandonment of the current procedure - the procedures are back in place with the newly appointed minister of justice - but we will also verify that the new procedure, which has been initiated, will indeed be transparent and guarantee the independence of the proposed delegated prosecutors. they must also be accepted by the european public prosecutor's office, the chief prosecutor, ms kövesi, and the college of prosecutors. and if the elements are not met, we will not hesitate to take the necessary initiatives. i was also listening about the questions on the functioning of the european public prosecutor's office (eppo). i want to be very clear. the lack of delegated prosecutors in finland for the moment and slovenia does not mean that the public prosecutor's office cannot exercise its powers in these two member states. in addition to two or more delegated prosecutors, each participating member state also has one european prosecutor in luxembourg. the eppo regulation provides that, in exceptional circumstances, the delegated prosecutors may be replaced by the european prosecutor from the same member state. the european prosecutor shall be responsible for the implementation of the delegated acts referred to in article 7 of this regulation. this transitional solution allows the eppo to start. the finnish and slovenian european prosecutors in luxembourg can therefore investigate and prosecute cases in finland and slovenia respectively, with the support of national authorities on the ground, until the delegated prosecutors are ready to take up their functions. however, this is only an exceptional and transitional solution. as i said in my introduction, finland has in the meantime agreed with the eppo on the working scheme for its delegated prosecutors. they should be nominated and appointed soon. the appointment of the delegated prosecutors in slovenia remains a matter of the utmost urgency. but so we will have with the eppo the opportunity to investigate in the different cases, also in slovenia if its needed, with such a possibility to work with the prosecutor in the college in luxembourg. i would also like to add that we have full respect, of course, for the choice of the member states that have decided not to join the eppo. it was an optional solution. and i will say that it is normal that there are some choices from different member states to stay out. but the commission will continue to encourage those member states to participate as well. the eppo shall be responsible for the implementation of the eppo's internal rules and procedures, including the rules on the protection of personal data. the protection of the union budget is an obligation under the treaties for every member state, irrespective of its participation in the eppo. and the commission also encourages the non-participating member states to continue exploring, together with the eppo, further avenues of cooperation such as the conclusion of bilateral working arrangements. but we will continue to ask all the member states to think about their participation. we have seen some progress in at least one of those member states, but we try to convince all the non-participating member states to take part in the process. and i would also like to add that, as regards the more general situation of the rule of law in the various states, we will have the opportunity, as i already mentioned yesterday, to publish the second annual report on the rule of law next month, in july. and if we want to address the wider situation of the rule of law in each of the member states, i reiterate my proposal - i already made it last year - to discuss with you not only in general terms this report on the rule of law, but to do it chapter by chapter on the 27 member states. this is perhaps the most concrete way of seeing the situation across europe. as far as the commission is concerned, beyond this report, we will continue to use all the tools at our disposal: the article 7 procedure, as was the case again under the portuguese presidency, with hearings in luxembourg this week on the two polish dossiers, introduced by the commission, and the hungarian dossiers, introduced by parliament. we will continue, as we have announced in recent weeks, to introduce infringement procedures if necessary and we will continue the work we have started since 1 january this year on cross compliance, since the regulation has been in force since 1 january this year.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the start of the european public prosecutor's office is a historic milestone. all the relevant stakeholders, the european commission, the council, with the support of this parliament, have worked hard for several years to achieve this important objective. we must continue to work together to ensure the success of the eppo. while not intervening in activities which fall within national competence, in particular the appointment of european delegated prosecutors, the council clearly considers it essential that the european public prosecutor's office should be able to work under the best possible conditions and, therefore, that the necessary national measures should be taken as soon as possible. the council will continue to follow closely the activities of the eppo and to provide it with its full support, working on all relevant issues and taking all initiatives that can contribute to its effective functioning. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as this is the last debate in which the portuguese presidency will be speaking on behalf of the council, let me thank you all for the cooperation which this parliament has given over the last six months. it has been an honour and a privilege to represent the council in this chamber and to work with you in a constructive spirit and in respect of the principle of loyal cooperation. thank you all so much.
dear secretary of state zacarias, it is my great pleasure to thank the portuguese presidency for being so active and present in the european parliament. big thanks also go to you personally. indeed, it has been a pleasure to have you here and we look forward to taking stock of the outcomes and results of your presidency. so all the best and thank you very much. i am sure that everyone in this house will join me in thanking you. (applause) the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the protection of the financial interests of the european union against fraud, corruption, money laundering and misappropriation is an obligation of the union and the member states under the treaties and a prerequisite for the protection of the rights of european citizens and the values of democracy and the rule of law against, in particular, organised crime which threatens these values. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, which is an ideal projection of the italian model of investigative and judicial coordination, was a decisive step forward in protecting the eu budget. on 1 june 2021, almost four years after the adoption of the constitutional regulation, the public prosecutor's office finally became operational and can start its investigations. the eppo should be able to appoint a new prosecutor in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 26 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council. the eppo should also be provided with all the resources necessary for the effective performance of its tasks and member states that have not joined the eppo should be encouraged to do so in order to establish a common and uniform system of prevention and investigation.
we now move on to the second vote of the day. we shall vote on the procedures indicated in the agenda. the vote will take place at 2.30 p.m. and 3.45 p.m. the voting procedure is the same as in previous elections. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i now declare the second ballot to be admissible. so you can vote until 3:45 p.m. the results of the second ballot will be announced at 6.15 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 2.31 p.m.)
let's go make some announcements. the competent authorities of croatia have informed the president that mr ladislav ilčić is elected as a member of the european parliament in place of ms ruža tomašić with effect from 1 july 2021. i would like to welcome this colleague and remind him that he is a member of parliament and its bodies in full enjoyment of his rights under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure.
the president received from the council its positions at first reading and the reasons which led it to adopt them and the commission's positions and opinions. the securities will be announced in the minutes of this hearing. the three-month period for parliament to deliver its opinion therefore runs from tomorrow, 25 june 2021.
the minutes of the sittings of 23 and 24 june will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall immediately forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the addressees.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 24 june 2021.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin today's sitting by expressing our solidarity with the people of cyprus and the victims of the devastating fire which has killed four people and caused so much destruction and suffering. we are relieved to learn from the cypriot authorities that the fire is now under control. the eu has rapidly deployed resceu, showing once again that we are stronger when we act together. the time for solidarity is not over. we, dear friends of cyprus, will always be at your side.
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sitting on 23 and 24 june were distributed. are there any comments? there are no comments and therefore the minutes are approved.
the competent authorities of germany have sent me a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr jörg meuthen so that the prosecutor general in berlin can open an investigation against him. in accordance with the rules of procedure, this request is to be referred to the parliament's committee responsible for legal affairs.
the competent authorities of portugal have informed me that mr joão pimenta lopes has been elected as a member of the european parliament to replace mr joão ferreira with effect from 6 july. i welcome the new member and remind him that he has full rights to sit in parliament and its bodies under the conditions laid down in our rules of procedure.
the ecr and ide groups have informed me of some decisions to amend the appointments to committees. these decisions will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and will come into force as from this announcement.
the tran committee has decided to open interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 71 of the rules of procedure. the report which constitutes the mandate for these negotiations is available on the plenary's website. its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. a number of members or one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold may request in writing by midnight on tuesday 6 july that a decision on the opening of negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in the house is received within the said time limit, the committee may enter into negotiations.
following the decision of the agri committee to open interinstitutional negotiations under rule 71 (1), announced on wednesday 23 june, i have not received any request for a vote. the commission has therefore already been able to open negotiations.
signature of acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure: i would like to inform the house that following the break in the parliament's session on 24 june, i signed together with the president of the council an act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament's rules of procedure. i would also like to inform the house that on wednesday i will be signing with the president of the council 11 acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of these documents will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
mr president, i just would like to ask you, as we speak, in tbilisi in georgia, there is a kind of witch-hunt going on against lgbti people. thousands of hooligans are attacking not just their offices, but people aren’t even safe in safe houses anymore. they had to flee from the office of the united nations, and the embassies of eu member states, as well as the embassy of the european union, have actually failed to provide support and shelter. so i would ask you, president, to issue a statement of support and call on the embassies, and specifically the eu embassy, to do everything they can to secure the safety of these people and speak to the authorities and insist that police protection be provided. (applause)
thank you, i'll take note of your request.
we note these requests.
the final draft agenda, approved by the conference of presidents on 1 july 2021 in accordance with rule 157, has been distributed. i would inform you that the votes are distributed over several voting periods, taking account of the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for separate votes or for separate parts. please note that this distribution may of course be subject to change. relevant information on the distribution of votes is available on parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. the agenda is hereby approved.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr pedro silva pereira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the financial activities of the european investment bank, annual report 2020 (2020/2124 (ini)) (a9-0200/2021), and the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the control of the financial activities of the european investment bank, annual report 2019 (2020/2245 (ini)) (a9-0215/2021). i would point out to members that in all the debates of this sitting, as usual, neither spontaneous speeches nor blue cards will be accepted. as in the past, there will also be contacts from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. i would like to start by thanking all the political groups, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on budgets for their contribution to the preparation of this report on the eib's financial activities in 2020. the constructive attitude of all has greatly benefited this report on the european investment bank. with this report, parliament is fulfilling its role as the democratic watchdog of the european investment bank, the public bank of the european union, the only international financial institution wholly owned by the member states of the european union, which must therefore align the investments it finances with the political priorities and values of the european union, with particular attention to projects of public interest. but parliament wants much more than these annual reports and a few ad hoc hearings with the management of the european investment bank. we insist on the need for an interinstitutional agreement between the european investment bank and the european parliament to structure this democratic scrutiny, to ensure regular hearings, but also to ensure access to information and to written questions and answers. if necessary, we can prepare an interim memorandum of cooperation to at least arrange the terms of the regular dialogue between our institutions. this report, as its title indicates, focuses on the year 2020. we all know how 2020 was a very special and very difficult year, but this year confirmed the decisive role of the european investment bank. parliament welcomed the emergency financing and economic recovery support provided by the european investment bank. the initial €40 billion, which provided more credit and liquidity for small and medium-sized enterprises, in addition to the moratoriums, and the €25 billion of the new european guarantee fund, which is important mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for the health sector, in particular for the production of vaccines. equally important was the more than €5 billion that the eib has committed to covid-19-related support outside the european union, including participation in covax for a more equitable distribution of vaccines. we are advocating in this parliament that the european guarantee fund should remain operational beyond 2021 and that the european investment bank should consider incentives to stimulate the acceleration of projects and credit lines already approved. we know that there is a chronic investment deficit in the european economy, which is worsening with the crisis and the growth of inequalities. the eib's contribution to the financing of the european investment bank (eib) is limited to eur 100 million. but it is also necessary to ensure the geographical balance of funding and to ensure that stronger support is given to regions that are less attractive for investment and less favoured by the derogation from state aid rules throughout this crisis. naturally, after the green deal and the ambitious targets for the decarbonisation of the european economy, the investment gap in the area of climate and the environment would have to gain a new priority in the eib strategy. to be fair, this was already a task for the european investment bank. the new roadmap 2021-2025 only reinforces the ambition of the european investment bank and is something we welcome, as is the alignment of eib financing with the paris agreement as early as 2023. all this will have important implications for credit for the transport sector, the energy sector and industrial policy. we must also give value to the social sector, investments in education, vocational training, health and even housing. we cannot forget the already very important role of the eib in supporting development cooperation, which we must strengthen in the context of global europe, in which the european investment bank will have an important role to play. the european parliament therefore once again calls in this report for the european investment bank to be given more capital so that it can meet its tasks and its challenges. finally, we want the european investment bank to take its transparency policies further, to improve its rules on conflicts of interest, to pursue a zero-tolerance policy on harassment at the workplace and to structure the dialogue with staff representatives. all this will help the european investment bank to live up to its tasks and ambitions. parliament welcomed the work done by the european investment bank and hoped that the bank would increasingly respond to the political priorities of the european union and the expectations of the citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank president hoyer for being here. it’s kind of a yearly tradition, isn’t it ? and also, vice-president dombrovskis. i think if you read the reports, both in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, where i was shadow, but also, of course, the committee on budgetary control report, you do see that for the parliament the eib, the european investment bank, is a very important bank and it’s the largest multinational investment bank that we have. and we very much also welcome the role that, for example, the eib played in the famous juncker investment plan. 2019, it always feels a bit awkward to be very honest, to do a budget control of 2019 when we are already halfway to 2021. but that was an important year because that was also the year where the eib announced to become the climate bank of europe, and being a green at the same time, i can only welcome that, of course. but as we also see with the green deal, ambition is one thing, but now we have to put it into practice and put it into action. and there are, of course, still some critical questions to be asked. for example if you look at the absolute emissions that are linked to the projects that the eib is financing, the emissions rose from 2019 compared to 2018, and there was still a finance of eur 685 million into gas projects. we know that the energy lending policies have been changed, but still, we would like to hear also from president hoyer on how are you going to make sure that this phase-out of gas projects is going to be put forward. also, given the concerns we are still having if you look into projects like trans-anatolia or trans-adriatic, these big gas pipeline projects. and also there i would be very much interested to hear from president hoyer how the eib is going to look at the issues of a fossil lock-in, because if we want to go into a future of decarbonisation, then a lock-in into any other fossil fuel is not what we want to do. and i’m sure we agree on that, but i would like to see some vision on the part of the eib to work on that. the same is also on the lack of transparency about emissions that are being financed via intermediaries. so you have the direct parties, of course, but you also have the intermediaries that are financed through eib and are causing emissions. and we would like to see more transparency of that as well, so that we are having a full footprint analysis of the eib and not only through direct. looking at what the eib has been doing, we very much compliment what you have been doing on the revision of the energy-lending policies, the climate roadmap, the upcoming transport policies, reform where – at least if we are not mistaken – the eib will announce also to stop airport expansion, but it would be good to reiterate that of course once more. but also here, i think it is very important that we also look at the counterpart framework of the eib again to make sure that there are decarbonisation targets for the eib clients and intermediaries again. so i would be interested to hear from president hoyer on that as well. not only is the eib a climate bank, it also portrays itself as a development bank, so a role outside the eu. but there we really still would like to see the point that there is a concern of violation of human rights and really effective complaint mechanisms, and what is the eib going to do about that in order to make sure that that is being improved? this is also probably a question towards the commission. also within the eib, we have, of course, a discussion on grants versus loans towards developing countries. and you will not be surprised that for some developing countries, it’s not the loans that work, it should be grants, and there i think also the commission should have a say if we look at what the eib is doing. i think where we are most critical is on the governance issues, staff issues governance. so i think we do have to address that also here in this plenary, and we really would like to hear a good reply of president hoyer on that. there are on a couple of issues. first of all, on the conflicts of interest, i think the parliament has reiterated a couple of times that we are concerned that vice-presidents sometimes are being in charge of their own home country. and we sincerely think that here there should be – i’m talking about vice-presidents in the management committee, right – so that they are responsible for their home country. what is the eib going to do to make sure that there is not a conflict of interest, are there ideas of cooling-off periods, etc.? here, really, we need a better approach of the eib, and i’m sure that that colleagues of mine will raise that issue as well. i see some already nodding. and then, of course, the staff issues. there have been some serious cases of harassment and i have to be honest here to say that the initial reply of the eib could have been better. and i know that some of my colleagues will mention that as well, but any harassment case is serious and any harassment case should be prevented. and how is the eib going to deal with that? because i do think that any proportionate action needs to be taken and only written warnings is not sufficient. so really here we would like to hear a reply of president hoyer how to address that, also because of the importance of the eib. and this is a good development that the eib is playing a more and more important role, but that also means that the scrutiny is more serious, and i think there also the eib has to adhere to. last point is towards the commission. you thought you could lay back there, but there is of course still the role of the commission that is not very accountable towards the parliament, and this is especially through article 19 opinions, where we do not know necessarily what position the commission is taking when the eib is deciding. and the position of the commission can be very important there. so we want more transparency on the position that the eib is taking in management decisions by the eib. i would be very much to looking forward to your reply on that. i think those are some of the important points.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr hoyer, when we came in i have been elected since 2019 we were elected by saying: we now need a climate bank to change the dimension at european level and finance the transition. and the eib said, "great! we're going to be the climate bank, we know how to do it, we can do it. the problem is that the news is catching up with us and we see the terrible images coming in from all over the world and every year, every week, every month it gets worse. it's clear that what we're doing is going much slower than the environmental destruction that's being caused by climate change. mr hoyer, my colleague mr eickhout has just said that the eib is continuing to finance gas projects, the eib is continuing to finance motorways. the fork we have to take is much faster than the one taken today. the questions have already been asked and my message is very simple, mr president: if we want the eib to become the climate bank, we must act faster, stronger and with more resources. we have to choose between what will allow us to make the transition or what will keep us in the destruction we are still experiencing.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while we should support the eib's role in mobilising finance for the economy and in particular for smes, the two reports for 2019 and 2020 evade substantive questions. firstly, funding that will be granted only for decarbonisation seems excessive to me and should not be at the expense of other key sectors for economic recovery, such as digitalisation. secondly, i would like to see a demanding and humble feedback on the projects that have been poorly evaluated and which mostly concern non-european projects. this noble objective of development aid with third countries is being undermined by many examples of projects lacking clear social and environmental considerations when loans are being granted. finally, i regret that loans to turkey, a country that does not respect the fundamental principles of freedom and democracy, reached €385 million in 2018, a total of €28.9 billion since 2000. the european union, through the eib, was weak in not activating the contractual clauses allowing the suspension of payments with turkey. i would urge this multilateral institution to refocus its investments within the european union, as they must benefit the member states, which are the only shareholders.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against child crime and the protection of the innocence of our children are essential battles that we, as parliamentarians, must fight every day. i shall therefore not have any criticisms of the principle of the regulation we are considering today. we must make an exception in the law on the protection of personal data on the internet for child pornography, since this is not a matter of privacy. however, i would like to make two comments, since the exception for paedophiles is only now being introduced under a directive which has been in force since december. does this mean that for the past six months, predators have been protected by european law? have there been any investigations that were blocked, shelved, forgotten? have monsters escaped justice because of this legal vacuum? my second point is that our texts punish the online solicitation of minors who have not reached sexual maturity. it varies from one country to another. so a predator may escape the law depending on whether or not his victim lives in a country where the sexual majority is different. i have already called on you several times to recommend that our laws be harmonized on this essential point. i even proposed a resolution to you in january of that year, which you rejected. this lack of reaction is irresponsible, even criminal. unfortunately, child pornography exists only after the lewd acts have been committed. so it's always too late. the priority is therefore to act upstream to prevent the dissemination of content inciting paedophilia on social networks, to prevent predators from harming and evading the law. platforms like tiktok, netflix, youtube are flooded with videos hypersexualizing the bodies of young children. this has to stop.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. protecting children from violence and abuse is our duty. with these new rules, children will be safer online. under the new rules, websites and social media will be able to detect and report cases of child sexual abuse, remove material and help identify perpetrators. pedophilia, child molestation, child pornography are criminalized offline and should be treated the same online. unfortunately, the pandemic has increased the demand for child pornography, and that means there are more vulnerable victims. without a well-developed compromise, the current practices of detecting, reporting and removing child sexual abuse would be impossible. the new rules fill this legal gap that has been created since 21 december 2020. so, with the rules in place, the kids will be safer. the safety of children online is up to us adults. we must protect them and rise to the challenge.
on behalf of the left group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, yes, there is a need for a strong response to child sexual abuse, and yes, there is a need for it to be taken immediately. but no, this regulation does not do justice to that. i say that as much as i have supported the rapporteur in all her struggles. what has emerged is the indiscriminate scanning of communications, and that is neither a proportionate nor an effective response to crime. what is achieved is something else entirely: it is mass surveillance of communications, and it is illegal. messenger service providers like facebook are now being tasked with scanning the content and metadata of all communications for known and unknown material, which results in a mass of completely unsuspecting images and images being compromised, captured, and people who are completely innocent also coming under general suspicion, on an order of magnitude. yes, even grooming, which is not even properly defined - there is no such definition - is to be included! there is no justification for indiscriminate, indiscriminate mass surveillance of any communication by anything, or anyone. it is a serious invasion of the privacy of citizens and a legal scandal, and it is not in the lives of the children involved, in fact. instead of relying on unlawful exceptions, there must be a system that actually protects children and upholds civil rights. that's what it's all about.
madam president, please. the internet has become a new information-flowing space, where harmful material for children is spreading like wildfire. pedophilia crimes and networks, online sexual abuse, have entered a new dimension. it's faster and easier for criminals to get to their victims, but it's also harder to track them down. in such a radically new situation, swift and effective action is needed, and all measures must be taken, both at national and eu level, to ensure the protection of our children. every step we take, every decision we make, must be based on one principle, and that is the best interest of the child above all else. this is the principle enshrined in the united nations convention on the rights of the child of november 20, 1989, and also reflected in article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights. the present agreement is welcome, but it should be stressed that it is only a transitional solution. in the long term, there is a need for permanent regulation requiring mandatory filtering of such content. we don't have time to sit on our hands. we have to protect our children.
madam president, madam commissioner, i will speak for one minute, and during that minute, almost thirty complaints will be lodged in the european union to report child pornography online. this is 17 times more than in 2010, and online violence increased by 57% between 2019 and 2020. europe has become the world's epicentre for child sexual abuse websites, with almost 90% of such content on european sites. in december 2020, the european electronic communications code entered into force. for privacy reasons, it did not allow online messaging services, such as messenger or whatsapp, to detect, delete or report child pornography content exchanged on their apps. tomorrow we will finally vote on a temporary three-year waiver that will once again allow online messaging services to tackle child sexual abuse, pending the commission's legislative proposal in the second half of 2021. this proposal must be ambitious, sustainable and much more binding on messaging services, in order to effectively protect our children.
on behalf of the ecr club. in coastal areas, fisheries are not only one of the main economic sectors, but also a way of preserving the lives of fishermen who feed their families and preserve the mediterranean culture. it is therefore very important to strike a good balance between the conservation of fish stocks and the interests of fishermen. to do so, we need to take into account the specificities of each watershed and the maritime traditions of each area. this report does, and i thank the rapporteur for that. the commission has proposed that during this six-year programming period fishermen can be paid compensation for the temporary cessation of fishing for a maximum of six months, and we have managed through this report to overcome the doubling of the increase, so a total of a maximum of 12 months, and this is a great victory, because so realistically our fishermen can not catch because of the different periods of time the fish they catch.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, two weeks ago in our capital city, dublin, a flotilla of fishing vessels sailed up the river liffey to protest against the continuously bad deals they have received from the eu and successive irish governments. the message was clear: the common fisheries policy (cfp) is destroying the irish fishing industry. brexit, quota cuts, prioritising money for bureaucracy and enforcement instead of our coastal and fishing communities are just a few examples of what is causing this hardship. but there’s an obvious solution: radical reform of the cfp. as an irish republican i firmly believe that the natural resources of ireland belong to the people of ireland, and i for one am tired of our fisheries being used as a bargaining chip.
madam president, the new fund covers many of the demands of the marine industry in my region, galicia, to improve fishing and to promote aquaculture and processing. i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, on this very satisfactory result, and i should also like to thank commissioner sinkevičius. i am particularly pleased that the new emff is being set up to do away with the bureaucracy which has traditionally been so burdensome in its implementation. from now on, all operations which are not expressly prohibited will be allowed and will be able to receive european funds. the emff will contribute to improving living and working conditions on board, which is key to ensuring the next generation. in addition, for vessels of less than 24 metres in length - the majority in spain and, of course, in galicia - the new fund will be able to finance the purchase of a vessel by young fishermen. it is also very good news that, for the first time, shellfish is included in the definition of small-scale coastal fleet, with the aim of having a privileged treatment for access to european funding. and finally, i welcome the fact that small and mediumsized enterprises in the aquaculture and processing sectors can receive direct subsidies.
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the negotiating team, the rapporteur, mr mato, and most especially, of all the alternative rapporteurs, our alternative rapporteur, mr manuel pizarro, who has done a great job with the whole negotiating team. finally, the vote on the approval of this fund, the smallest of the european structural and investment funds, which we hope will be certainly more useful in this period and better meet the demands of the fisheries sector, aquaculture and the blue economy. i say better because the fund that has just been closed down has been downright nefarious. and i have to say this with regret, because i think i had an excess of bureaucratization that has not helped at all. simplifying this i think will help. i am also pleased about the compensation for the ors, for the canary islands, in my country, spain. i understand that this new fempa will help to improve the working and living conditions of all fishermen. and that's why - if only for that reason - it's worth it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i feel a little wasted by this new fund for maritime affairs, fisheries and aquaculture. we are facing a collapse of marine biodiversity. small-scale fishermen face competition from an increasingly aggressive industrial fishery. we could have tried to live up to it. instead, you abdicate. you are reintroducing harmful subsidies. for example, subsidies that were limited to vessels of less than 12 metres will be available up to 24 metres. this means less money for small-scale coastal fishing, but also an increased risk of overfishing, especially in the mediterranean. harmful subsidies are contrary to the un sustainable development goals. our predecessors had suppressed them years ago. the reintroduction of these substances runs counter to the current wto negotiations to ban them globally. finally, no budget has been specifically allocated to the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems. i can't back that. that is why our group has tabled a motion to reject this agreement and i shall vote in favour of this motion to reject this new emff.
mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, if i were to sum up the beginning of this debate in this house in one word, i would say 'pity'. it is a pity, because on the one hand, when reading the slovenian priorities, i can only support a number of elements. the work on economic recovery, which is essential for our internal market, on strategic autonomy, which is now a political objective shared by this house and the european union, the creation of the european health union: the commission has worked enormously on these topics and the covid crisis has mobilized us all. accelerating digital transitions and ecological transitions is the meaning of history. the conference on the future of europe, mr prime minister, will have to be politically driven, because we will have to reform ourselves to be credible to our fellow citizens. but i say that it is a pity, because i can perhaps distinguish between the very constructive priorities you have mentioned, mr prime minister, which will make it possible to make progress on all the elements, and the political situation in a country which claims to be increasingly openly illiberal. we're worried and it's a shame. it is a pity for this debate, it is a pity for the priorities and for the fact that they are a little parasitized by internal stories, but which are just as important for us, since they are european values. we are concerned about the campaign of hatred against journalists that is being carried out by the government, we are concerned about the attempts to control public services, we are also concerned about the signal sent by slovenia, which has still not appointed judges for the european public prosecutor's office - this has been mentioned by all the political groups. mr prime minister, we may or may not support your priorities, but we will remain vigilant. you have to give evidence, evidence of your membership of the european union at the time you are presiding over it. in any case, we will support you in the success of this presidency for the next six months in substance, and we will be vigilant about european values.
mr president, dear colleagues, connecting europe facility (cef) is indeed an important part of the digital and climate transition. we need fast digital connections, rails that move goods and europeans across the continent and an energy network that is ready for the uptake of renewables. as the s&d shadow rapporteur, i’m happy that parliament was able to strengthen the climate perspective. now, 60% of the cef is targeted to contributing to the climate objectives. we have 15% earmarked to be spent for cross-border renewable energy, and also biodiversity and the gender perspective are included. during the negotiations, we were able to improve the fast mobile connections that should be supporting also the european transport networks, but also important social economic hubs such as schools, universities, hospitals, industrial parks, and so on. as the cef has a central role for this twin transition, it’s important that this instrument will be in action as soon as possible. and like the greens say, the climate doesn’t wait, and rail investments are urgent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in history, a city, lytton in canada, has been completely wiped off the map, burned down as a result of a climate disorder caused by human activities, particularly the exploitation of fossil fuels. the next day, the ocean itself was on fire off the gulf of mexico, as a result of a gas leak, which we should stop exploiting if we want to preserve the climate, biodiversity, in a word: life on earth. how does this relate to our discussion today on the european interconnection mechanism? well, simply because the text before us today proposes that we continue to spend the money of europeans on gas pipelines which condemn us to dependence on fossil fuels for several more decades. we have barely voted for the objective of carbon neutrality through the climate act, when we are now rushing to authorize the financing of gas infrastructure projects and even dare to declare that this contributes to the fight against climate change. the climate will appreciate it. so the choice is simple: vote and accept a seven-year funding package in a crucial climate decade, ending two years before our 2030 goals, made untenable by the targets and funding appropriations we're about to vote on. or vote on the rejection amendment that ciarán cuffe and i are proposing to you to postpone the outcome of the negotiations by one month, in order to defend the positions of the european parliament, the objectives of the green deal and help save the climate. one month against seven years: we hope, colleagues, for your full support.
mr president, madam commissioner, the eu promised great things to improve our lives. but he took it badly. because behind the slogans is a disastrous record. and it is the european court of auditors that says it: 57 billion budget for the corridors of the interconnected european transport network, with 17 billion extra cost, an unforeseen increase of 47% of the total budget. the average delay in delivering these megaprojects is 11 years. all this with public money from our taxes, with our money. this is a direct consequence of the complex and bureaucratic way the european commission operates, off-the-shelf and offline. to remedy this, the latter must cooperate more closely with local elected officials, professionals and user associations. the projects would go much faster and cost much less to taxpayers, especially the french. this is proof that cooperation between nations would have been more effective than the technocratic and outdated european commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a week ago the thermometer in the village of lytton, canada, was reading 49.5 degrees. not in the sahara, not in the middle east. no, no, it's 100 degrees in canada! the cause of this extreme heat in a country also in the north is known, it is the climate disorder. in fact, scientists have warned that what happened in canada could very well happen in europe again soon. with such an alarm signal, one might think that europe would do everything in its power to curb climate change. and yet, with the connecting europe facility, the european union is preparing to finance gas projects in a hurry. fossil gas can be just as dangerous to the climate as coal or oil. instead of subsidising gas pipelines, europe should finance wind turbines and solar panels, for the success of the ecological bifurcation, for our future and to be able to enjoy the summer without burning.
mr president, i would like to thank you, mr commissioner. i just heard it from someone in the id group. when someone from the id group tells you that, there might be a little problem. it took you six months to give us the 28 pages of guidelines. six months to ensure that we have this debate here for the fourth time. four times we're gonna tell you the same thing. well, we have to enforce the law. however, this regulation has been in force since 1 january 2021. he was supposed to change everything, you just told us that. you have presented it to us as a historic step proposed by the commission - let us underline this - a historic step by the european union in protecting the rule of law in all the member states. and suddenly, poland and hungary decide to blackmail. it is urgent to take the time to write guidelines, to interpret the text, to start an exegesis of the council's words. the member states have become frivolous (that is where the council is). the tories here are playing catch-up and you're stalling. in the meantime, some judges are being replaced; universities are closed; lgbt people are stigmatized; media is censored; opponents are silenced. european money is being misused by some who even boast of it by paying for advertising pages in the european press. enough wasted time! enough of this debate! enough with the resolutions! now we're enforcing the law. show the european citizens that europe is here to protect them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am astonished that the actions brought before the court of justice of the european union by poland and hungary on 11 december 2020 have not been taken into account, which makes the regulation that entered into force on 1 january 2021 de facto suspensive. parliament shows a lack of legal awareness by calling for the new mechanism to be activated immediately. the concept of law is a concept of such uncertain legal nature that the commission wishes to frame this concept by guidelines, which is a camouflage for parliament. it should be remembered that for the past three years, this concept has been used by the european institutions to punish poland and hungary, which had refused to distribute migrants after the 2015 crisis. moreover, the regulation lacks a sufficient legal basis, since article 2 teu does not confer substantive competence on the union but merely lists certain values which the member states must respect. consequently, a breach of those values, including the rule of law, can be invoked against a member state only when it acts in a field in which the union has competence, on the basis of article 7 teu. any new regulation would therefore be contrary to the treaties. but i'm not deluding myself. this regulation shall apply. it will become a powerful tool of political coercion, posing a potential threat to all member states. the treaty of rome and its co-signatory countries - we were all full of admiration for the european project - seem to us to be far removed from the current image of a europe that wants to put several nations on a pedestal. the health and economic crises we are experiencing are in reality the swan song of a dogmatic europe which, alas, brussels wants to maintain at all costs.
madam president, mr high representative, april 2018 was the beginning of civil protests in nicaragua and since then the violent repression has only increased and the human rights situation is extremely worrying: persecution of all political opponents, journalists, ngos, but also indigenous communities. anyone who opposes the government today risks prison or worse. we are now in the fifth resolution on nicaragua. and as all my colleagues have said, i think there is a great deal of consensus here in parliament. we are asking for the release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience, of course; for information on the lives of those who have disappeared; for electoral reforms to ensure free and transparent elections; for the release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience; for the release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience; for information on the lives of those who have disappeared; for the reform of the electoral system to ensure free and transparent elections. but also, as you have said, mr high representative, we are today calling for the extension of sanctions against government officials. we have also said that there is an instrument, the association agreement, under which we are working with nicaragua and by which nicaragua has committed itself to defending democracy. is it possible to suspend this association agreement today?
madam president, mr borrell, once again, speaking of nicaragua, we must regret that the worst prophecies have been fulfilled and try to put in place the means so that the current political and social crisis that is shaking the country does not end up becoming a pattern of the humanitarian crisis that is shaking other countries such as venezuela. sandinism overthrew a dictator. unfortunately, the country is back on track. running for office today is a guarantee of ending up in jail. today, the lost bullets that end up finding those who annoy the dictator the most have returned to nicaragua. the threats, the persecutions, the beatings, the harassment, the persecution, the gag are back for the press that points and denounces. i hope that this resolution and the work of the european external action service in favour of dialogue and in preventing the political crisis from turning into a humanitarian crisis will help the dictator to think. for that, i think he and his team deserve the sanctions that have been imposed on them. and that is why i believe that this regime, which has copied the worst of somoza's ways, deserves to be under the spotlight of the financial action task force. these are the tools we put in play so that they understand that yes, they have turned the flower that sandino planted into a sad dictatorship.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, as you would expect, we have heard many calls for enough is enough, mr ortega! i assure you that mr. ortega is getting a kick out of your invocations. we must be able to do more than repeat the same thing over and over again and be able to put measures into effect. some have called for action - i won't name any particular person because these debates are not interactive, and perhaps they would win if they were. but what measures? we can certainly take more action than was taken in may 2020. we have not taken any more restrictive measures for a year. the united states and canada have done so. the member states will probably want to consider it. you love to blame the high representative for doing nothing. but it's just, you know? i cannot determine measures unless i get the unanimity of the member states. it may sound strange, but it's true. i can catalyze, propel, try to get them to take, but it's not in my hands to do that. i'd like that. however, i think the situation has reached such an extreme that the member states will certainly have to consider more concrete actions than 'enough, mr ortega!'. because the situation certainly deserves it. but let me also say that i am struck with an immense intellectual disgust when i hear the situation in nicaragua compared with the situation in spain. it's not acceptable. a little intellectual decency, please. a modicum of intellectual decency. no one can seriously compare the situation in nicaragua with the situation in spain. some of you have called for the association agreement and cooperation to be suspended. ladies and gentlemen, let's think twice about what we want to do. we want to put pressure on the regime, but not to punish the nicaraguan people any more, who are already punished enough. we have suspended all security operations immediately, but if we suspend the association agreement and suspend cooperation we will affect the nicaraguans the most who are the worst off. and since the 2018 crisis, all the cooperation activities that we have done from europe under our association agreement are aimed at the nicaraguan citizens in the worst situation and, of course, do not pass through the government. so in the case of nicaragua and in the case of cuba - which has again come up today - our support does not benefit the government but the citizens. we are studying the allocation of resources in the cooperation plan for the period 2021-2027, in the context of the programming of the new financial perspectives. and we will continue to try to get our aid to the people of nicaragua. suspending it now, do you think it's going to weaken mr. ortega's position? i don't think so, to be honest with you. if i did, i'd be the first to propose it. and, mr pineda, i am seriously concerned about the situation in nicaragua. i am taking part in this debate with no other intention than to try to get this house to support, to propose measures which can lead to overcoming a situation which cannot be justified from any point of view. there are others like it, or even worse, i won't deny it. but the plague doesn't justify the cholera, you know? the plague does not justify the cholera. and we must be able to approach each case on its own merits or demerits. i would be delighted if this house could have a debate on the situation in colombia, which certainly worries me. i'm sure you do! but i am not the one who sets the agenda for the plenary. i shall be happy to discuss it, because we have certainly spoken to the colombian authorities about it. but let's not say that because certain things happen in colombia we can't criticize what happens elsewhere. because what is happening in nicaragua has no justification whatsoever, and even less so with mr ortega's revolutionary and guerrilla past, which is far away. i also do not see what the hell this has to do with the support that the spanish socialist government is giving to i do not know who. frankly, there is no support, fortunately, from any country, from any democratic party for mr ortega. and that is why in the coming days we will put to the council the possibility of taking restrictive measures in the style of those already taken in the past, making sure that they do not affect the citizens and making all the political pressure that we are able to make with the means at our disposal and in collaboration with the united states, with the organization of american states and with all the countries that share the same concern. but clearly the ortega regime has one of the best security apparatuses in latin america. it is exercising a very effective repression which has succeeded, as i said at the beginning, in sowing a climate of fear and discouragement among the population. and we cannot leave the nicaraguans, nor cut the bridges with them, suspending - because it would be a toast to the sun or the gallery - the agreements that allow us still to have a certain capacity of influence with the nicaraguan society. so i will convey to the council your 'enough is enough, mr ortega!' and i hope that this will serve as an incentive for you to take action.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, now we jump from nicaragua to turkey. they are not the same thing, but this is also a timely opportunity to discuss the challenges that the opposition is facing in turkey. certainly the situation in turkey and in nicaragua cannot be compared. but it’s our concern, the situation of the people’s democratic party, the hdp, and the situation that it has been facing since 2016 with their co—leader demirtaş remaining in prison despite two european court of human rights rulings in favour of his release. certainly we are concerned by the turkish constitutional court’s decision to accept the revised indictment demanding the closure of the people’s democratic party, the political ban of 451 hdp politicians and a freeze on the party’s bank accounts. closing down the second largest opposition party in turkey would have the consequence to ignore the rights of millions of voters that had been supporting these party candidates in the elections. this would reinforce our repeatedly—voiced concerns regarding the backsliding on fundamental rights in turkey and contradicting the turkish authorities’ stated commitment to reforms in the european perspective. also, i have to mention the recent attack in izmir province on the building of the hdp that cost the life of a party employee. the authorities should carry out a full investigation and bring the perpetrators to justice. disparaging campaigns against critical voices have at the end led to an unacceptable attack of this kind that cost human life. turkey is an eu candidate country and a long—standing member of the council of europe, but i think that there is a need to fully respect the core democratic values, the rule of law and the freedom of political association, which are at the core of our political system. this will be important for the future of european union—turkey relations, and with the best will of keeping these relations high on our agenda and with the best prospects for turkey being considered a candidate country, and having with turkey the best relations, that’s why i raise here my voice in this democratic fora in order to ask for full respect for freedom of political association in turkey. i am sure the debate today will contribute to raising this voice of european parliamentarians who feel concerned about the situation in turkey.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, about a month ago, we were discussing the situation in turkey in the plenary of this parliament in the context of the report on the association agreement for 2019-2020 and then many of the things that are being reproached today to the government in ankara were detailed in that report. the conclusion of parliament, which i think is wise, was that the government in ankara should now be drawn to the negotiations on the need for a rapid change in its attitude to many unpleasant aspects of turkish society, first and foremost to relations with civil society and opposition political parties. and now we are talking concretely today, and i think it is necessary to talk absolutely concretely, about the relationship with the hdp, with the peoples' democratic party in turkey and about aberrations such as the imprisonment of the two leaders of this party, such as the so-called constitutional attempt to outlaw the party, such as the ban on about 600 politicians from any kind of electoral rights, such as the lifting of the immunity of 20 deputies, first from this party and then from the other opposition parties. all this has nothing to do with european values or a democratic regime. and there's something else. for me, the height of the aberration is that this regime, which is largely claiming its origin from atatürk, at least formally, and we see this everywhere on the streets, for example in istanbul, is today an obvious aggressor of the party that succeeded his ideas, the republican people's party. i think that this parliament must act and that must happen today, not tomorrow.
on behalf of the renew group, president, mr high representative, the imprisonment of opposition members on the basis of vague and unfounded accusations, the banishment of opposition members from politics, the replacement of elected mayors with loyalists of the regime, the attack on independent media: that's what's happening in turkey right now, with the hdp being the biggest victim. and this is confirmed by reporters without borders. they put erdogan on the new list of "press freedom predators". ladies and gentlemen, turkey is still an eu candidate country, a country, mr high representative, with which we are still officially negotiating accession to the eu. and i've been doing it for 16 years. and after the critical report by the european parliament a few weeks ago, the situation has only got worse. the constant attacks on the opposition confirm once again that turkey cannot join. because in a true democracy, you fight your political opponents with your words, not by banning them from politics. and this resolution sends a strong signal to the turkish regime as well as to the council and the commission that democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are non-negotiable. it is not for accession, nor is it for a positive agenda. i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how this is perceived by the opposition in turkey, that we are offering a positive agenda to the leader who is silencing them ... is it not time, ladies and gentlemen, for us to have the courage to say to erdoğan: enough is enough!
on behalf of the id group. madam president, her name was ebru timtik, a lawyer specialising in politically sensitive cases. she died on 27 august 2020, after 238 days of hunger strike. she was in her 40s. helin bölek also died in her 28th year, after 288 days of hunger strike. his body couldn't take it anymore. she was a musician, like i̇brahim gökçek and mustafa koçak, who also died in prison during their hunger strike. i could mention other prisoners who died in silence in turkish prisons because of their opinions or political commitment. i could also tell you about the diril family: simoni and hurmuz diril, a christian couple from the sirnak region in southern turkey, both kidnapped. the wife was found dead and no one knows where her husband, hurmuz, is. we try to raise the issue of this couple at every plenary session, but some people refuse to allow an amendment to be passed which merely mentions this situation. this sectarianism is also evidence of a double discourse of our institution in the field of human rights and in the field of international politics. i remind you that it was as a result of the death of one man, one man only, of course, one man too many in a russian prison that the united states passed the magnitsky act. the european union quickly followed suit. the many deaths of political opponents of erdoğan do not provoke the same reaction. mr erdoğan continues to receive billions from the european union. mr erdoğan still does not find the door to accession negotiations closed and definitively closed. mr erdoğan remains the pillar of nato in the middle east. ladies and gentlemen, our attitude towards turkey shows the hypocrisy of our institution. mr. erdoğan is necessary to the interests of the united states and therefore the sanctions, the threats, the reactions slip on him, because he knows that he fears nothing from the international community. for other countries, the worst-crafted stories are enough to provoke hysterical reactions. the people are watching. they analyze the roots and consequences of our actions. they see that we are not acting on the erdoğan threat. we are paralyzed.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the aggressive foreign policy, the moral slap of sofagate, the situation of women and minorities, the continuing repression of the kurdish people in turkey and neighbouring countries: these are just some of the issues on which our parliament has recently condemned the ankara regime and the list can only continue to grow. the banning of the hdp, one of the very few parties still able to offer alternative positions to those of the regime, will fulfil erdoğan's plan to turn turkey into a real sultanate with revisionist ambitions that obviously look to the ottoman empire. yet we are discussing today the refinancing of the facility for refugees, putting on the table a proposal to increase its resources to a level never before reached. if we cannot avoid having bilateral relations with ankara, we must also introduce strict conditionality criteria so that the pursuit of our interests does not come into total conflict with our principles and values, otherwise those principles and values will be reduced to dust and a turkish carpet will not be enough to hide them.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy madam president, thank you very much to all the members who have spoken. well look, certainly the fight against terrorism cannot be used to silence dissenting voices. we can agree on that. in turkey and everywhere else. but at the same time, we have to recognize that turkey is a state with a multi-party system, an elected parliament and an elected president, and a candidate country with all the obligations that this entails. so we hope that turkey will honour its international human rights commitments and stay true to its european perspective and demonstrate, with tangible actions, the respect the rule of law, fundamental rights and the basic tenants of a multiparty democracy. i think that we can agree on that and to have a balanced approach to the situation in turkey. to raise our voice when we have concerns. to be demanding, replying but not to make analogies with things that happen in other countries, which unfortunately for them they are not compatible. one specific thing that has been raised by several members is how can you still continue funding turkey? how can you be prepared to give more money to turkey? i think you're referring to the funding for refugees. and i certainly think that we would have to continue supporting the refugees that are being hosted on turkish territory. our support for these refugees is a sign of solidarity and its also an investment in our stability. there are millions of refugees in turkey and there may be more if the border in idlib is closed. let's hope this isn't going to happen. and these refugees will need support, will require support for some time to come. and their needs have become more acute in the face of the covid-19 pandemic and its economic impact. remember that we have organized here in brussels, the fifth brussels syria conference and the international community had been showing solidarity with the syrian refugees. and we will have to continue to show this solidarity, offering a package with a regional coverage, not only with turkey but also with lebanon and jordan, because there are a lot of basic needs and education, health care, that will remain priorities and european funding will continue to be directed towards giving better opportunities to these people. so i don't think there's a contradiction between expressing concern about some issues that have happened in turkey and that worry us, and at the same time continuing to have a dialogue with turkey about how we can support the burden that millions of refugees represent for the turkish authorities and for turkish society. and that is why the president of the commission, the president of the council and myself are engaged by a mandate of the council of the european union to try to look, how can we develop this assistance, and how can we talk with turkey about different issues related to the stability and security in the eastern mediterranean. the two are perfectly compatible.
author. madam president, mr high representative, what is the common denominator between the funding of the brexit campaign, anti-abortion associations, cyber attacks against the european banking authority or health structures, massive disinformation campaigns on social networks, the purchase of strategic european infrastructures such as the port of piraeus, gerhard schröder working for gazprom, yves leterme working for the investment fund tojoy, or françois fillon for zaroubeftejne? all these and many other actions, legal and illegal, are being carried out by foreign powers hostile to our principles and interests, with the aim of destabilising our democracies. they are responding to a clear political-military strategy: hybrid warfare. we live in a strange state that is neither true peace nor conventional war. a hard-to-define in-between, where the enemy's goal is to corrupt you, divide you, weaken you more than to destroy you directly. the european union, lulled by the myth of the end of history, believing that it had no more enemies, has long been naive and blind. it is to put an end to this naiveté and blindness that we have set up this special committee. i have now been chairman of this committee for nine months and we have devoted the first part of our work to establishing a precise diagnosis of the situation. after 30 meetings and 90 hearings, the conclusion is clear and alarming. vulnerable to these attacks, permeable to these interferences, our democracies are at great risk. preventing these threats and responding to these attacks is of paramount importance. mr high representative, at your hearing last march, you said that you shared our analysis of the european union's vulnerability and the need to step up our action against interference. in all sincerity, you have also admitted your own impotence. your mandate is not broad enough. your department budgets are not adequately staffed. the resources available, for example, to deal with disinformation coming from china are, i quote, "very, very, very weak". today's exchange should enable us to assess the policies implemented and to define an ambitious strategy. we are addressing you today with specific requests. how do you intend to remedy the weaknesses, the gaps, the legal vacuum that make the union so vulnerable to attack? the siloed mindsets allow these attacks to go undetected. are horizontal structures needed to remedy this? how do you coordinate the work of all the commissioners? are you planning any additional structures? how do you plan to expand the mandate of your services? in the face of the glaring lack of resources, why has no request for a budget increase been made? to be a deterrent, our strategy must include an effective sanctioning mechanism. the perpetrators of the attacks must pay the price for their actions. the sanctions cannot be limited to the hackers themselves. they must be directed at the political sponsors, the states. what measures should be taken to change the procedures for the adoption of sanctions by the council? what is the impact of the unanimity rule on the union's ability to act forcefully against foreign interference? these are crucial questions and they require answers. we can be right-wing or left-wing, progressive or conservative. our common responsibility is to protect our democracies, our institutions, our citizens. what is the main threat to our democracies today? no, it is not the exiles who die in the mediterranean or the rainbow flags that are chased in poland and hungary. these imaginary enemies, designated by the far right, are not the threat. the real threat, i tell you, is first of all those who, within these institutions, our institutions, are playing the game of destabilizing european democracies. it is you, the pseudo-patriots who are subordinate to vladimir putin, who are accepting to be the instruments of a project to destabilise the european union. then there is the corruption that undermines our cities, starting with the corruption of our leaders, whether they are right or left, leaders who are willing to sell out to foreign powers like russia, china or qatar. it is also the feud between the big european brands and the chinese production apparatus, these multinationals who think that everything can be bought and everything can be sold, including the sovereignty of peoples and the dignity of individuals. if we want to continue to breathe the air of democracy, we must learn to defend it firmly and resolutely. so let us defend it together, mr. high representative. we look forward to working with you to make europe stronger and safer.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr high representative, i have a question for you. are we really still at peace when disinformation is pouring into europe every day, when cyberattacks are being launched one after the other, when in this parliament some falsely patriotic elected representatives are repeating the propaganda of moscow or beijing without changing a comma? we must face the facts: our democracies are being harassed by authoritarian regimes that cannot stand what europe represents - a single area of freedom, prosperity and solidarity. so, if we agree on the finding, i have another question for you, mr. high representative: in the face of the attacks on our democracies, what is your battle plan to expose the extent of imported disinformation? and to paraphrase stalin: europe, how many divisions? to counter cyberattacks, how do you propose to organise the solidarity between member states, the solidarity enabled by the european treaties? how do you intend to impose retaliation on those who harass our democracies and are currently engaged in a low-cost war? mr high representative, do not tell us what you are already doing, because we know it, we appreciate it, but we are convinced that more needs to be done. if it is a question of human and material means, tell us; if this is a question of legal tools, tell us. this parliament is for that purpose, and this parliament, at any rate the overwhelming majority of its members, has as its first task the protection of our democracies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an influence that we never talk about in these walls, an influence that everyone knows about, but no one talks about. this influence in our parliamentary life is that of a series of highly political ngos which advocate transparency for others and conceal their very real interests behind a cosmetic of human rights. foreign interference is an inseparable part of international life. our european neighbours know this well, for they have never ceased, under louis xiv or napoleon, under de gaulle or the third republic, to interfere in the french political process. it was precisely the strength of our great leaders to resist them. it is the weakness of our current leaders that they have given up on us being a great power. it seems a long way from the days when jacques chirac and france could refuse to participate in the invasion of iraq. if a president of the republic were to act in this way again, i wonder if he would not be condemned by this parliament. yes, mr. glucksmann, there is foreign interference that you have denounced. but i think you're forgetting a country whose interference is permanent in our institutions. a country that is officially in the game, yet thousands of miles from our borders. a country that has no interest in the european union becoming, as its founders dreamed, a true world economic power. that country is, of course, the united states of america. they co-opt the elites, fund scholarships and programmes for political personnel in european nations, they voice their opinion on the outcome of elections in the heart of europe, they even meddle in the presidential election in france, where barack obama had officially indicated that he was calling for votes for emmanuel macron. their action is further intensified by ideological groups financed by billionaires. and if you call them ngos, they are really political pressure groups trying to impose their agenda on our institutions. so what i am asking for is simply the same demand for transparency for these ngos which have now taken up so much space in parliament. if you do, commissioner, then i will believe you will fight against interference. finally, i am concerned about the climate in this parliament, where if you are wrong in having an opinion different from the majority, you are immediately accused of being a foreign agent. i wonder if we are not witnessing the re-emergence of a period of intolerance which mccarthyism symbolized in the 1950s.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, under the pretext of being the sole embodiment of the dignity of human rights, the european union is once again trying to usurp powers that are not its own, using a moralistic rhetoric to strip nations of their prerogatives. the establishment of a global sanctions regime, based on an exclusively dogmatic interpretation of human rights, is unnecessary, utopian and illegitimate. the principle of sanctions is largely unnecessary in its effects, as we can see in particular with russia, which makes a mockery of our sanctions - see their recent law on the champagne appellation which severely penalizes french winegrowers. in addition, certain sanctions, in particular embargoes, too often lead to the very direct punishment of entire populations, in accordance with the so-called principle of defending human rights. utopian, because to base diplomacy exclusively on human rights is to lack pragmatism, it is to harm one's own interests. are we going to break off all relations with saudi arabia? diplomacy is not a religion of excommunication of those who do not share our worldview, but the ability to talk to everyone to overcome our differences. this text shows childish naivety in a world where the powers of the past are waking up and wanting to take back their full place. finally, illegitimate, because the european union is once again trying, by attacking the unanimity in the council, to take from the nations what is their sole discretion, the essence of their sovereignty, namely foreign policy. we have no mandate from the people to steer their destiny. we have no direct authority to dictate to nations their alliances or their international enmities. we have no power to subject the international relations of the member states to your human rights considerations, whose vague and utopian definition blocks any effective action. you don't have to decide the place of france and the other nation states in the world. this text is about submission to private interests, especially those of mr soros' open society and his galaxy of ngos. these private interests use the pretext of human rights to amass exorbitant financial profits. let us leave it to the nations, the only legitimate framework, to freely organise their diplomatic relations in accordance with their national interests and not according to a moralistic and unrealistic vision.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all you have to do is open an atlas and look at a map of africa to understand the scale of this tragedy on the borders of sudan, of a sudan torn apart, of a sudan bloodied, of a sudan crucified. the conflict in which eritrea, ethiopia and tigray are now involved is dramatically prolonging the conflicts in the sahel to the indian ocean. from one coast to the other, or almost, today is drawing, a total war zone has emerged that cuts the african continent in two. these armies, these violent conflicts, destroy crops, burn silos, demolish, burst water reservoirs and lead this part of the continent to famine. a great famine threatens this continent. and if we are not mobilized and motivated by the duty to protect, let us be mobilized by fear, by fear that these conflicts will bring to our shores, tomorrow, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of refugees who will have no choice but to die on the spot or risk dying. so we must intervene, not militarily, but politically, diplomatically. our union must contact the african union immediately so that together the two unions can seek to lay the foundations for the historic compromises that will prevent the prolongation and widening of this conflict. this is an emergency for africa, this is an emergency for us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. 70 years of the geneva convention on refugees it is a lifesaver, an international agreement that protects millions of people and makes the right to asylum a fundamental right in our union. the circumstances that led to this human rights milestone were different from today. but with over 82 million displaced people worldwide today, the convention has lost none of its importance. seventy years ago, many europeans were on the run. today we are able to take in refugees. that's something to be proud of. and yet the principles of the convention are increasingly being called into question. let us reflect on the universal values, humanitarian principles and solidarity which underpin this convention. 70 years of protection for refugees let us now ensure that this convention remains the foundation, also for our asylum and migration policies!
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, dear ylva johansson, i welcome this debate on the 70th anniversary of the geneva convention, because history is full of lessons. as we work on the difficult reform of european asylum and migration policy, we remember that this international treaty on the status of refugees was born in europe, for europeans. the forerunner of the united nations high commissioner for refugees, the author and guardian of the geneva convention, was set up after the second world war, you recalled, to take care of the millions of europeans displaced within the old continent. it is no coincidence that this text was signed as early as 1951, mainly by european countries, the same year as the treaty of paris establishing the european coal and steel community. the horrors of war have given rise to two powerful aspirations: peace and refuge for all persecuted people. in 2015, the migration crisis shook the whole european building, because humanitarian reception is rooted in the values and the european project from its very beginning. however, on the faults of the common european asylum system, far-right parties and illiberal regimes have thrived for several years and are planning the destruction of europe. i therefore fully support my colleagues in our renew europe group, who are fully committed to an ambitious reform of european asylum and migration policy - the action you, madam commissioner, have called for. several objectives seem to me to be of priority for renewing the spirit of geneva. first, reform our asylum procedures to distinguish more quickly and effectively between those who are entitled to international protection and those who are not. secondly, 70 years after the geneva convention, it is time to complete our asylum policy with an indispensable element: de facto solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states. we must not let a few first-arriving member states manage migration flows alone. thirdly, it is essential to place respect for fundamental rights at the heart of this reform and to strengthen the role of our european agencies on the ground. for more than a year, europe has shown a tremendous capacity to take giant steps to overcome the health crisis with the europe of health, the recovery plan or own resources. the reform of the migration and asylum pact is our new impossible mission, to use the words of the president of renew europe, dacian cioloș, and i am sure we can take it up, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, the council and the commission. we must not wait for another migration crisis to act with courage and humanity.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, 82.3 million is the number of forcibly displaced people in the world, according to the latest report of the high commissioner for refugees, as you recalled. 86% of these forced exiles are hosted in developing countries. the european union, a prosperous economic area, is home to only a tiny minority of them. and, again, can we really talk about welcome? as i speak to you, with a terrible feeling of déjà vu, of already too much seen, no european country has committed to taking in the 572 people rescued by sos méditerranée teams in six rescues in four days. these are the acts of today, madam commissioner. as i speak to you, europe is discussing an "asylum and migration pact" whereby member states could finance the return of asylum seekers rather than welcome and be humane and supportive. this is a very strange way of celebrating the 70th anniversary of the geneva convention, the document that established refugee status and the obligations that it imposes on states. 70 years later, the right to asylum and its founding principle, non-refoulement, are too often abused, trampled underfoot. 70 years, ladies and gentlemen, is a very young age to be dead and buried by the european union and its member states. yes, commissioner, the geneva convention must live and survive our fears and our sickening selfishness. this anniversary should be an occasion for a leap of humanity. the european union must recover and finally regain its dignity. it must reconnect with its founding values. leaving your country to survive is a tragedy. let's not add drama to drama. let us give these asylum seekers a dignified welcome. it's our duty. humanly and legally, the geneva convention obliges us to do so.
madam president, madam commissioner, you are knitting while we are talking about the future and the identity of our peoples. seven people attacked with knives in sweden: the perpetrator is an afghan who arrived in 2016, already known to the police. schoolchildren threatened with knife in ermont, france: the author is a repeat offender from haiti. in germany, christiane, 49, johanna, a pensioner, steffi, 24, who had come to buy a dress for her friend's wedding: all were specifically targeted as women and stabbed to death by a somalian who arrived in 2015 as an asylum seeker. not a month goes by in europe without an attack involving a newly arrived migrant who will bend the knee for his victims? the text you are proposing is a vacuum pump for more violence in our societies, even though your primary responsibility is to protect them. whether it is the treatment of asylum in countries of origin or the tightening of sanctions against smugglers, the examples of denmark and the united kingdom should inspire you, because they are what a majority of european peoples expect today.
for the greens/efa group madam president, sometimes states dream of a europe where goods move as freely as possible, without taxes, without environmental constraints, without social rules, but where human beings have the greatest difficulties in crossing borders. a european union where we would distrust our neighbours and refuse to welcome those who come from further away. as of 2015, germany, austria, denmark, norway, sweden have reintroduced border controls, and france has done so on a permanent and consistent basis. with the pandemic, it was an escalation. the first instinct of states was to isolate each other instead of trying to coordinate to find together the best medical and sanitary solutions to deal with this unprecedented crisis. these refusals to cross borders are accompanied by intolerable physical violence, as in croatia, or by administrative harassment, obstruction of justice, judicial harassment, as between france and italy. when the member states do this, they are not only often acting illegally, but they are also flouting the very essence of the european union project, that area of freedom for french and european citizens and that ideal, that hope of a strengthened friendship between peoples embodied in the schengen area. this has to stop. we need to make open borders the norm again. the fundamental rights must be systematically and unequivocally respected. and any ill-treatment at the borders, whether permitted or ordered by a state, must be immediately investigated in depth and independently.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr president, today i want to talk to you about love, about the happiness of loving whoever you want, wherever you want, regardless of your gender or sexual orientation. not having to hide or justify or be afraid, and having your heart beating 100 beats an hour, just out of passion, not out of fear of being targeted. mrs von der leyen, mr michel, i thought that in europe in 2021 we would not accept that this simple and fundamental right to love should be called into question. yet this is the case in orbán's hungary, where a shame law that links lgbti people to child offenders comes into force today. it is no longer enough to condemn them, but we must act to show every european citizen that we will defend them at all costs. orbán is far from being at his trial. for years he has been challenging the separation of powers and freedoms. and it is almost always radio silence from europe. at every council, and even today in your speeches, it is the same farce. the european union is concerned, shocked, outraged, but it is not going to do anything about it. she frowns, yes, sometimes she makes a big face, raises her voice, but never lashes out. and that impunity is the law. slovenia, which is taking over the presidency of the union, is attacking freedom of the press and opponents, like our comrades in levica. poland is challenging abortion. and that is radio silence from europe. the far right is celebrating your cowardice. orbán mocks us by publishing his propaganda in complicit newspapers like le figaro, and his authoritarian friends dream of a brown alliance to defend their disastrous project. your inaction encourages them to go further and further. so today, yes, it is true, we hear the word 'sanctions' timidly. but you know, as i said about love, in love, there's only proof that counts. so if you love the rule of law so much, why wait and stubbornly refuse to immediately apply the sanctions that are necessary? every week lost is an insult to those gays who fight to keep the right to love, to the women who fight to keep the right to abortion, to the journalists who resist to keep the right to inform. your false naivety is not an excuse, but an accomplice cowardice. it is time to send a clear message: we will not let anything pass, nothing.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, after mrs von der leyen last april, it is the european council today which is continuing the process of mutually beneficial cooperation with turkey. what the european union sees as a form of good neighbourliness, erdoğan sees as a line of force to achieve much more than he has already managed to gain by exploiting our weaknesses and cowardices. why, then, is the council seeking to revive the free trade agreement between the european union and turkey? strengthening the customs union means giving erdoğan new means of pressure, this time economic, which he will certainly exploit in the future, since we have already clearly pointed out our weaknesses to him time and again. why do we want to continue to receive european funding for refugees in turkey? we know that these are just tools of erdoğan's migration blackmail. recep tayyip erdoğan has mastered the art of adapting his islamist ideology to his interests of the moment. we must not be fooled. any concession to this regime is contrary to the interests and security of europeans.
i hope we can all agree, mr president, that cooperation and solidarity are the foundations of the european project. and these are exactly the values we need to address the pandemic globally. we won't be safe until everyone is safe. how many colleagues have not said that? the commission and the council do not seem to be taking any action in this area, and the council's conclusions also seem to lack the necessary measures. the question was not even mentioned in president michel's introduction. only a fraction of the vaccines we need to tackle the pandemic globally are currently being produced. the imf and the world bank have proposed the creation of an investment mechanism which will actually increase world production. but the council has little say in this matter either. almost all countries in the world are in favor of eliminating intellectual property rights to ensure that enough vaccines can be produced. the commission is blocking the negotiations on this subject in the world trade organisation and is not playing a good role. we need more cooperation and less blocking to tackle the pandemic globally.
madam president, mr president of the european council, mr vice-president of the european commission, first of all i must say that in these days my country is being severely tested by the deadly and devastating fires which have unfortunately led to the loss of four lives and the total destruction of vast areas of forest, agricultural and residential land. mr president of the european council, mr vice-president of the european commission, with your presence here today in the european parliament, i must call on you to help and mobilise all means of solidarity to support and help our country and the suffering cypriot citizens. as regards the european council conclusions, i must emphasize that, even before the ink has dried on those conclusions, which contained clear warnings to turkey about its criminal expansionist and aggressive behaviour in the eastern mediterranean and cyprus, turkey has flouted all those decisions, made harsh, offensive and cruel statements against you, dear president of the european council, and is proceeding with the implementation of its criminal actions, for new deeds in cyprus, for new deeds in ammostosh. i am here today to convey the voice of thousands of cypriot european citizens who are demanding immediate and clear answers from the european commission and the european council, particularly the european citizens of the sandbank. if turkey continues its criminal actions and implements its plans for famagusta, which are in conflict with the security council, the united nations and the european parliament and the european union, will the european union live up to its history of principles and values and impose sanctions on turkey? the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish government has not yet taken any action to deal with the situation in cyprus, and that it is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish government has not yet taken any action to deal with the situation in cyprus.
madam president, the european council meeting in june represented an opportunity to make an assessment of the current situation at european level, but european leaders should do more in addressing the present challenges. indeed, we are at a better moment right now when it comes to the pandemic, but the danger has not disappeared. we need to implement the necessary preventive measures in order to avoid a fourth wave. some countries are incapable of implementing the target of the vaccination campaign and are completely ignoring the need for a recovery that takes social aspects into consideration. the recovery plans should be about doing things differently, but some are promoting austerity measures. the approval of 12 plans is good news, but this is not enough. some governments – this is the case in romania – presented weak recovery plans that failed to provide adequate answers to citizens’ needs. we have to intervene to make sure no one is left behind. we need to work together in helping each member state to develop strong recovery plans and making sure our common targets are reflected in the measures adopted by european governments.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, the latest council conclusions are yet another indication of european bias in international affairs. france and germany have proposed to reopen a dialogue with russia. the american president himself took an important initiative to do this, but the european council blocked this proposal, i quote, because of 'malicious, illegal and destabilising' actions. the tone is very different when it comes to turkey. the erdoğan regime continues its blackmail of migrants, violates the territorial integrity of several european countries, mobilizes terrorist organizations, puts on stage its means of political pressure in our countries and even prosecutes its opponents in our country, until recently. do we need more malicious, illegal and destabilizing actions? the list could go on and on. in response to all this, the latter council, i quote, recalls that it wants to 'develop a mutually beneficial cooperation relationship with turkey' and welcomes a more serene context. the council also decided to grant mr erdoğan an additional eur 3 billion to continue the dialogue. how can we take such an incoherent europe seriously? a europe so weak that it is financing erdoğan in the hope that he will solve the migration problem for us, for which he is actually one of the main responsible. a europe whose constantly asserted attachment to the rule of law is thus variable in geometry. and then, because we must speak freely, ladies and gentlemen, we must talk about a disunited europe, to the point where germany is selling turkey submarines with which it will threaten greece, cyprus and perhaps again the french navy in the mediterranean. i have the desperate feeling that these councils are following each other and looking alike. but what can you do but say it again? it's time to open our eyes before history takes it upon itself to force us out of denial of reality.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, mr president of the european council, i think that today’s plenary session truly reflected what was for sure one of the most political debates of the european council, and rightly so, because the core values of our union are at stake; because the delicate balance between the imperative of public health and a return to normal life as we knew it before covid-19 was discussed; because the relationship with russia which for years represents a strategic challenge for the european union, being analysed in detail; and of course because the crucial issues of migration have been discussed among the leaders. first and foremost i really would like also from my side to once again express my heartfelt condolences to the family of journalist peter de vries, because this shows how important is the fight for freedom for media to do everything in our power to make sure that journalists can exercise the freedoms for informing the society, investigate the cases as they should in a free society as we know it in the european union. therefore, i just would like to again reassure this house that the commission will do its utmost to protect the fundamental european values as it was clearly stated by president von der leyen this morning in this house. and we are going to do the same to safeguard the european taxpayers’ money. as we promised you, not a single case will be lost. we will start the first file this autumn and in the meantime, when we wait for the decision of the european court of justice, we are working with you on the guidelines how to apply the conditionality mechanism in practice. on migration i would like to stress that just some days ago, it was on 29 june, we welcomed the agreement reached to transform the european asylum support office into the european union agency of asylum. this is important because as you know this is a key initiative under the new pact on migration and asylum. we hope that all the other elements of the pact will be equally advancing and as i said yesterday, we need political will in the council to achieve that. as this house is stressing, completing our legislative framework on migration and asylum will give us a tool to deal with migratory phenomena in a sustainable way, but also it will prepare us better for eventual future crises. a few words on russia. here again i would like to inform the house that together, the commission and the european external action service, we are working hard to deliver on all the proposals which have been requested by the european council. it means proposals for additional restrictive measures, but also on the options, if it comes to the issues and areas where we can engage with russia, and also we are thinking on the ways how to enhance our cooperation with civil society in russia. all this will be ready for the european council which should take place in october, and what i think is very important to underline now is the need for unity and coordination among the member states, and therefore the discussion of the european council was so important. if you allow me to conclude on a positive note, because i would like to underline that we are definitely on track with our aim to have at least 70% of the european adult population vaccinated by the end of summer. almost 370 million doses were administered. more than 250 million digital covid certificates were issued. i think that we see together that our cities are lively again, that europeans started to travel, that young people go to concerts, and so the economy starts to grow again. we accomplished this together. we’ve been working very hard on it and we see that it delivers. therefore i think that the lessons from that enormous effort is that if united we can overcome any problem we face and that should guide us even in the most difficult discussions and in debates on crucial issues as we have been discussing this morning.
president of the european council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, fundamental values, the rule of law and democracy are not theoretical proclamations. it is the founding pillar of this european project. that is why it is essential not to look down, not to be intimidated by such a debate, and that is exactly what happened at the european council. for several hours, the european leaders looked each other in the eye. the debate has been sometimes heated, sometimes difficult, sometimes emotional. it was clear that the debate in question touched on privacy, fundamental freedoms, the personal part of each and every one of us. that is why, at the end of this debate, i wanted to reaffirm in the strongest possible terms the primacy of european law. we have the instruments and, moreover, these instruments have been strengthened. we have been seeing this for several months now, and a year ago in the debate on the next european budget or the recovery fund, we collectively decided to give ourselves additional instruments to make this link between the capacity for european solidarity through financing, including in the context of recovery, and the ambitious objectives we have as the european union. because, i repeat, this is a fundamental issue for this european project. we have robust, democratic institutions, let us ensure that the european rule of law is fully functioning and that the instruments can be used. i come now to another point that many of you have raised: the question of migration. it is clear that we need to make progress at european level on the internal aspect of migration. the commission has put forward proposals, they are on the table. we realise that this is a difficult debate, because there are differences between member states on how to approach this issue. this does not mean that we should give up, but that we should continue to be committed to advancing this capacity for european solidarity on the subject. what is certain is that the external dimension of migration must be tackled more operationally, in a concrete way, by identifying which countries are priorities for us, the european union, in order to deploy a broader capacity for action that mobilises all the resources at our disposal. i will give a concrete example: we are very much involved at the geopolitical level, for example in connection with the situation in libya, and we believe that strengthening cooperation with international organisations, such as the iom or unhcr, is one of the ways of advancing this subject and deploying all the instruments at our disposal. a few hours ago, yesterday, i was in lithuania, where we are facing pressure from illegal migration flows. we must be clear about this, probably about the exploitation of the belarusian authorities. it is important that the european union responds in solidarity with lithuania by immediately mobilising, as we are doing, the resources of frontex and supporting capacities to protect european borders, but also to ensure that there can be this human dimension in the approach that must be that of the european union. you were also among those who raised the question of turkey. i would like to say that i am rather proud that the european council has, for some time now, decided to take a more ambitious geopolitical view. it takes time, it's hard. there is no spontaneous unanimity around the table, but a willingness to consider how we as the european union should deal with a number of countries around us or elsewhere in the world, whose principles and political models are not exactly the same as ours. in this sense, there is a very strong european unity on turkey. we have seen this for several months now: there have been developments, because there is less tension today in the mediterranean sea, which does not mean that everything is resolved, that everything is settled. the cyprus question certainly remains a central issue. i have said, and i say again, that the two-state solution is not a starting point. we must act in accordance with the relevant un resolutions on this subject. in the meantime, direct bilateral contacts have taken place between greece and turkey and, as regards the customs union, contacts have been initiated at technical level. we are also very clear about the need to resolve a number of irritants within the framework of the current customs union mechanism. it is in this spirit - conditional, proportional and reversible - that we want to envisage this relationship with turkey. maybe there was a misunderstanding in the communications. i would like to point out, however, that the european council has not decided on the amounts or the modalities. we have asked the european commission to make formal proposals and i stress that the european parliament will have a say in this matter. i have no doubt that there will be a debate when there are clearer and more precise proposals on the amounts and the modalities. i would also point out, for those who have been distracted, that this is not just about turkey, but also about lebanon, jordan and other countries in the region for which we must try to mobilise funding capacity. the european council agreed in principle to continue funding, but with concrete and operational proposals, which will have to be submitted and decided. several of you have raised the question of russia. we have a clear vision on this subject based on five principles which guide our relations with russia. it seemed to us at the european council that we should be more specific, more concrete, on the operational way of implementing each of these five principles. for example, the commission and the high representative have indeed been asked to consider possible additional measures affecting our ability to act in an attempt to further influence russia's behaviour. as for the dialogue with russia, such a dialogue is already taking place today, as it is happening at a regular pace to be in direct dialogue with president putin. it is true that the debate has been about how to give content, give substance and consider when, how and in what form selective engagement is possible or not, indicating the few themes for which we think selective engagement should be possible. finally, we also look at this situation in relation to our partners - the united states, canada and other partners who share our values. this is what has happened in the context of the g7 meetings, in the context of the eu-us or eu-canada summits, to also consider common approaches in a collective, multilateral way. it is clear, and this is an important subject, that we are facing pressures from authoritarian regimes that are putting our models of the rule of law and our models of democratic values to the test. i believe that we must, with all our partners, develop capacities for action and not just reaction, in order to promote our core values. finally, i would like to conclude with a point that remains a burning and still painful news item, namely the covid-19 that has not yet been defeated. significant progress has been made, in particular through the deployment of capacities to cooperate and work together, for example in the case of vaccines. and indeed, the question of whether or not vaccination should be compulsory is a debate in many european countries, a difficult debate because it balances interests that may seem to be at odds. we will continue the dialogue on this type of subject, but we have also been very committed at previous european councils. we have confirmed this, this time in the field of international solidarity. i've heard some complaints about that. they are curious because if there is one region in the world that has been exemplary from day one in the international arena, it is the european union. around half of the vaccines produced in europe each month are exported. this was not the case in other major democracies, which chose, on the contrary, to keep the doses to themselves. i remember the criticisms we received at the beginning of the vaccination campaigns, when we were told that we were a little slower than others on the subject. secondly, the commission has mobilised €1 billion for concrete partnerships, in particular with african countries, to 'organise technology transfers, knowledge transfers and to deal with this issue of intellectual property in an operational way' and not just with slogans or formulae that are a little too simple or simplistic. in several african countries, for example, concrete projects are under way. we are also looking at the situation in latin american countries on this subject. and it was the european union that was at the forefront of launching the covax initiatives, of funding research massively and of ensuring that we could be as supportive as possible. because it really makes no sense to make progress on the european level alone. progress is needed on this issue everywhere in the world. that, ladies and gentlemen, is a few reactions and i look forward to our next exchange after the next european summit.
the debate is closed.
as regards the decision of the tran committee to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71 (1), announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 5 july, i have not received any request for a vote in parliament from members or political groups reaching at least the average threshold. the committee may thus enter into negotiations.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: - statement of the council and the commission on breaches of eu law and lgbtiq citizens' rights in hungary as a result of the legal changes adopted in the hungarian parliament (2021/2780(rsp)) and- statement of the council and the commission on the outcome of the hearings of 22 june under article 71 (1) teu concerning poland and hungary (2021/2789(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the invitation to participate in this debate on the important issue of the rule of law and fundamental rights, including in connection with lgbtiq rights. let me start with the latter issue, as this topic is essential to all those who suffer discrimination and hatred because of their sexual orientation. there is no place for homophobia in the european union. no one should feel a need to conceal their true selves in order to avoid discrimination, hate or even violence. all citizens of our union are equal and should be able to live in freedom and safe from discrimination based on their age, sex, race, colour, religion or sexual orientation. these are principles and values solemnly enshrined in the eu treaties, the charter of fundamental rights and eu legislation. our common european commitment to decency, acceptance and equal treatment is the very foundation of the idea of a just society. the council is fully committed to upholding the rule of law and protecting fundamental rights. in view of recent legislative developments in hungary, it is clear that family law and schools’ curricula are within the national competence. yet the principle of non-discrimination is enshrined in the eu treaties. it was the right to equal treatment that featured prominently in the exchange that ministers had in the framework of hungary’s article 7(1) procedure at the general affairs council meeting on 22 june. as president michel said earlier today, the recent legislative developments in hungary were also discussed by leaders at the european council on 24 and 25 june. he stressed today that in the european union, we do not discriminate, but we integrate. coming now to the two ongoing article 7(1) procedures, as i mentioned earlier, the council heard hungary as well as poland at the latest general affairs council on 22 june. by these two hearings, the council formally resumed the procedure which had to be put on hold due to the covid—19 pandemic and the impossibility to convene formal council meetings. in fact, it is crucial that hearings are held in full compliance with all legal requirements in order to ensure that the procedure is balanced and fair towards all the parties and institutions involved. each of these hearings covered all the issues contained in the commission’s recent proposal of 20 december 2017 for poland and the european parliament’s recent proposals of 12 september 2018 for hungary. at the end of the meeting, the council committed to remaining seized under these two article 7(1) procedures. the presidency will therefore bring forward both procedures in accordance with its duties. in addition, the slovenian presidency will continue the rule of law dialogue in the council to pursue the essential work carried out during the german and portuguese presidencies. it will do so on the basis of the 2021 rule of law report, which will be issued by the commission in the coming weeks. we will hold both a horizontal discussion on the rule of law report in october and a country-specific discussion featuring croatia, cyprus, italy, latvia and lithuania in november. the annual rule of law dialogue is crucial to develop a preventive and constructive approach on rule of law issues, to allow member states to share best practices and learn from each other, and to strengthen a shared european rule of law culture. thank you very much for your attention and i look forward to your speeches.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, minister, thank you for having put on your agenda these topics which relate to the raison d’être of the union: our common values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty. let me start on the situation of rights of lgbti citizens in hungary. as stressed by the commission president just earlier today, several provisions of the act adopted by the hungarian national assembly on 15 june 2021 clearly discriminate against people based on their sexual orientation and go against the fundamental values of the european union. human dignity, equality and respect for human rights – on these values, we cannot compromise. protecting children against paedophile offenders is without any doubt a shared objective, pursued by all institutions and eu member states. however, our legitimate public interest is not a valid pretext to introduce provisions that violate fundamental rights and discriminate against a minority group based on their sexual orientation and gender identity. when implementing eu law member states must fully respect the eu charter of fundamental rights. they must also comply with the eu internal market rules. in the letter mentioned by the commission president sent by commissioners breton and reynders on 23 june this year to the hungarian minister of justice, the commission expressed its doubts about the compatibility of the act with eu law, including the charter of fundamental rights. the provisions of this act prohibit or limit access to content that propagates or portrays divergence from self-identity corresponding to sex at birth, sex change or homosexuality for persons under 18 years. such content is put on the same footing as pornography and considered as such to be capable of exerting negative influence on the physical and moral development of minors. by doing so, when it applies within the scope of union law, this act violates the prohibition of discrimination based on sex and on sexual orientation enshrined in article 21 of the charter. these provisions also deny people the freedom to express themselves and hold their own opinion, as well as the right to be informed enshrined in article 11 of the charter, as well as to enjoy the right to a private and family life enshrined in article 7 of the charter. in its letter, the commission set out its legal concerns and asked for clarifications on the act. the commission stressed in particular that some of the provisions of the act would violate eu law, including the audiovisual media services directive. some provisions at issue are also very likely to violate the e-commerce directive. the commission's assessment of the act is done also with regard to the treaty governing freedom to provide services and free movement of goods, which are amongst the fundamental principles of the eu internal market and the eu legal order. the commission expressed the concern that some of the provisions of the act constitute a restriction to both these fundamental freedoms. according to the case-law of the court of justice of the european union, any restriction to a fundamental treaty freedom must genuinely pursue a legitimate objective, be necessary, non-discriminatory and proportionate. moreover, such a restriction cannot violate the prohibition of discrimination based on sex and on sexual orientation enshrined in article 21 of the charter. the act also potentially raises issues as regards the implementation of the eu budget in hungary, in particular, funds in the shared management. member states shall implement shared management funds in compliance with the charter. under shared management, the rules for both 2014-2020 and the new programming period require member states and the commission to prevent any form of discrimination in the preparation and implementation of programmes supported by the funds. in addition for the new period 2021-2027, the commission will carefully monitor these enabling conditions throughout the programming period, starting with the preparation of the partnership agreements and of the programmes. the european social fund plus regulation emphasises that all operations must be selected and implemented in respect of the charter. in cases of infringement of the charter, the commission will consider them when determining corrective measures in line with the common provisions regulation. the commission will actively monitor the respect of fundamental rights, including the principle of non-discrimination in the execution of the eu budget. on 30 june the commission received the reply of hungary to the letter concerning this new act. we are assessing this reply and we will not hesitate to put forward actions in accordance with our role of guardian of the treaty. to conclude on this point, let me recall that the commission has already shown its firm commitment to address lgbti discrimination by adopting the equality strategy for 2020-2025. driven by the belief in a europe which embraces choice and diversity, the commission will use all its powers to ensure that the rights of all eu citizens are fully guaranteed. let me now turn to the outcome of the hearings of 22 june in the general affairs council under the procedure set out in article 7(1) of the eu treaty regarding poland and hungary. i would like to thank the outgoing portuguese presidency for its decision to schedule these two hearings. it had been quite some time since the last formal hearings in these two proceedings had taken place, also due to covid-19 restrictions. i represented the commission at the occasion and updated the council on 22 june on the developments. as regards the procedure in respect of hungary, the commission stressed again that the council must ensure a fair handling of the recent proposal tabled by the european parliament. the commission noted that the situation in poland and hungary is not improving and that new developments have given rise to further concerns. as regards poland, the commission updated on concerns around the questioning of the primacy of eu law by the polish authorities and the seizing of the constitutional tribunal in that respect, as well as on further deterioration of the situation of judges in the context of the activity of the disciplinary chamber. the commission notes that the concerns regarding the legitimacy and independence of the constitutional tribunal, as set out in the recent proposal, have still not been resolved. on 1 april 2021, the commission brought a new infringement procedure before the court of justice covering a number of judicial reforms set out in the new law on the judiciary. in this procedure the commission has asked the court of justice to impose interim measures suspending all activities of the disciplinary chamber as regards cases concerning judges, including decisions to lift the immunity of judges. in their interventions member states expressed concerns and asked for clarifications related to these developments. as regards hungary, the commission presented key developments raising concerns. these included areas such as the independence of the judiciary and of other institutions, the rights of judges, corruption and conflicts of interest, freedom of expression and media pluralism. the commission also addressed academic freedom and freedom of association linked to judgments of the european court of justice, finding that national provisions in these areas breach eu rules. the commission also updated on developments as regards the right to equal treatment and the rights of persons belonging to minorities and the rights of asylum seekers. many member states focused their questions on the anti—lgbti aspects of the recent hungarian legislation, also referring to a joint statement signed by a number of member states. against this state of play in the two concerned member states, the commission considers that it is essential to keep the article 7 of the treaty proceedings on the agenda of the general affairs council for as long as the underlying concerns that triggered these procedures continue to persist. the commission continues to stand ready to provide updates to the council as regards the rule-of-law-related developments falling under the ongoing article 7 proceedings, as well as to present its views in the context of formal hearings. the commission will continue to support the council in that respect. the commission remains open and available for a dialogue with the polish and hungarian authorities in order to resolve the concerns. and the commission remains fully committed to continue using all the tools at our disposal to address concerns relating to the respect of our fundamental values, including the rule of law in all the member states of the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group, i would like to begin this debate on the rule of law with the shocking events that took place in the netherlands last night. the journalist peter r. de vries was shot yesterday during a cowardly attack and is fighting for his life at the moment. this is not only a shocking attack on him, but on our rule of law in a broader sense. our thoughts are with peter r. de vries and his loved ones and we pray for his recovery. i also thank commission president von der leyen and all others today for their words of sympathy and solidarity. this is not the first attack against a journalist in europe, but let's make sure it is the last one, because when journalists are not safe, our democracy is in danger, our rule of law is in danger, and ultimately our society is in danger. just like we need, to come back to today's debate, a society where you are free to be who you want to be instead of being told by a government who you ought to be. a society where you can love whoever you want to love. because what kind of message are we sending as a government to young people by insisting that even the mere portrayal of homosexuality in itself is already so abnormal or so dangerous that young people should be shielded from it? what message does it send to a boy or a girl who falls in love for the first time with another boy or another girl that their feelings are not normal, that they have something to be ashamed about, that there is something wrong with them? of course there isn't. the only one who has anything to be ashamed of is a parliament who sends such a message. it was good to see the strong response by the european commission. it was good to see all those heads of state and government who send a strong message standing up for equality and nondiscrimination, standing up for our fundamental values. we call on them not to let this be a one-off event. don't travel back to your capitals feeling very good about your statement and leave it at that. the rule of law in europe is in need of some long overdue maintenance and the member states have all the tools necessary to make the difference. and it's time now to put your money where your mouth is and finally act.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, last friday in spain, samuel was killed at the age of 24; he was beaten to death while being called a 'faggot'. this latest victim is the horrific realization of where hate speech and anti-lgbtq+ discourse are taking us; discriminatory discourses and policies pushed across europe by far-right movements and their complicit governments, in a homophobic and human rights crusade. because yes, lgbt rights are human rights. and in the european union, it's illegal to act against them. therefore, the new law in hungary must be repealed for violating human rights and for being indecent and shameful. because these backward laws are the germ of hatred and violence, to discriminate based on who you love, to insult at a pride march in zagreb, as happened on saturday, or to kill a 24-year-old boy. let me be clear: in the european union everyone must have the same rights and opportunities to love whoever they love. the council reacted against the hungarian government, but concrete action is needed, from the use of the conditionality mechanism to sanctions via article 7, and unblocking the anti-discrimination directive once and for all. this house cannot accept the whitewashing of anti-lgbti speeches that are launched from the tribunes that incite hatred, as did not do town halls, stadiums and public places that were illuminated with the rainbow, in the face of the grim and dark policy of the hungarian government; even that of budapest. because let's be clear: hungary is not orbán. in closing, let me send a message to all those lgbt people who may be listening to us, who are afraid to say who they love, who suffer because they feel alone and threatened: we are with you, we love you and we stand up for you. never doubt your dreams or your rights. the governments that hate and discriminate are the ones who have no place, not you, because you make a union that is proud of itself, a union that is proud of your freedom and your love.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, minister, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, when i wake up next to my girlfriend in the morning and i’m filled with happiness and gratitude, i sometimes ask myself, how can you hate that the two of us love each other? when i see beautiful pictures from gay weddings i ask myself, how can you hate this kind of joy? and when i see a young trans person living a life as their true, authentic self, i ask myself, how can you hate someone just for wanting to be who they are? in europe today we are faced with a choice, a choice between a europe of freedom, of equality and diversity, where i can love and care for my girlfriend, where two men can get married and where a young trans woman can live her life without being afraid of violence or discrimination. and a europe of hatred and oppression, driven by orbán and kaczyński and other people on this continent, where governments sponsor homophobic campaigns to cover up their systemic corruption, where our community is used as a distraction from the blatant failures of government politics. now some of you might say, well, but this is only affecting a small part of the population because you are after all only a minority. but actually this is not true. it affects all of us. all of our freedoms are at stake here. and they might attack us first and in the most aggressive way but in the end this is about freedom of expression for all of us. this is about the fundamental rights of all of us, and this is about democratic principles for all of us. and between a europe of freedom and a europe of hatred and oppression, the choice is very clear. we choose freedom, we choose equality, we choose democracy. and we choose a european commission that will stand up for this freedom, for the freedom of trans people in hungary, for the freedom of judges in poland, for the freedom of everyone in the european union to love who they want to love and to be who they are. (applause)
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. once again, hungary is the target of an eu campaign against its sovereignty. the pretext this time is the hungarian child protection act. many of you have been so busy waving the rainbow flag in the last few days that you have apparently not found time to really look into this hungarian law. if you did this, you would see: it does not discriminate against homosexuals in any way. it's not homophobic. and no, it's not hateful, but it's against child sexual abuse. so please stop spreading misinformation about this bill. i would like the eu, but also many national governments, to show the same determination to protect our children as the government in budapest. when the european commission talks about principles and treaties, the supreme principle of the treaties is subsidiarity. and this is clear: the eu and its institutions have no right to interfere in democratic decisions taken in the member states. the hungarian parliament has adopted the law lawfully and democratically. the eu must accept this, whether it likes it or not. hungary, poland, the infringement procedure against germany it is not to be overlooked at all: the eu's centralists are becoming more aggressive. they are more and more openly seeking to centralize power. and it is precisely this quest for power that constitutes an unacceptable attack on the europe of adenauer, schuman and de gaulle, on the europe of the fatherlands. human rights in hungary and poland are certainly not in danger, but democracy in europe is if the eu does not immediately return to respecting the decisions of the parliaments and courts in the sovereign member states. mrs von der leyen must be told that it is not any hungarian law that is a disgrace, but her power-hungry aggression against our sovereign nations.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, let’s be honest, dear colleagues in strasbourg, and all lgbti friends in hungary and elsewhere, we saw this coming. viktor orbán and his gang have been directing their hate and right-wing authoritarianism against lgbti people for some while now. but that doesn’t make it less painful and it doesn’t make it less dangerous. it makes the inaction by the other eu governments and the commission even more unacceptable. and let’s be honest, the attacks are not against only lgbti people, they’re against the rights of women, they’re against refugees, they’re against roma. and the attacks have everything to do also with the rule of law. orbán’s government, just as in poland, has dismantled not only fundamental rights, but also media freedom, the independence of the judiciary and they are attacking civil society and making it more difficult for all democracy defenders to act. and these things spread, we know that they do that. and that’s why it’s a relief that at least we see some action now. and let’s be honest, we want action to protect our rights to protect lgbti rights in hungary and everywhere, but we also want actions for rule of law and for defending democracy and the rights of all. so we don’t want one more month of inaction, not one more month of silence. the council has to outline the course of action, take orbán to court, take poland to court and stop the funding to authoritarian regimes and projects... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president it is difficult to find words for the madness that is taking place here in the european parliament today. how is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that you are referring to european values and law while at the same time throwing up your hands at the treaties and the division of powers contained in them? they are shouting about the violation of eu law, while they themselves are abusing it for their own political interests. the hungarian law you have soiled serves only to protect children and looks after their best interests above all else. it states that the decision to raise children remains the right of parents, and that the youngest should not be exposed to targeted sexual propaganda, sexual propaganda of any kind. everything else you say about this is a lie. the law doesn't apply to adults. in hungary, everyone lives as they want. lgbt organizations can operate freely, but they have no business in kindergartens and schools. we will not accept any interference in matters where we have never given the european union competence. we reject the superior tone and colonizing arrogance of the old days.
mr president, in the past days, working on the resolution on hungary, the only picture that kept coming to mind was of friends i had as i was growing up in my teenage years in a very conservative society. friends like françois who were burdened with facing a society that they believed could never understand them, that their only hope was that of leaving this world, and unfortunately, that is what they did. this is how serious this discussion is. this is why we are here today, and this is why it is so important to make sure that all children and teenagers have access to information: to let them know that if they feel they are different to others, it is fine to be different, and that there are many others outside of that classroom who are as different as they are. we are also here today because it is important for every child and teenager to know that if they have someone in their classroom that looks or behaves differently, it is fine to befriend them and accept them the way they are – because we are all different in all our own different ways. we are here today to give hope. i know people in hungary, people like vikki, who i have spoken to during the past days, are on the edge of their seats waiting for us to give them hope, because they know that the european union that they aspired to, that they aspired for their country to join in 2004, was a union that held fast to its values of equality, human rights and the protection of minorities. these values transcend any national laws, and they expect action to be taken because that is the european dream that they believe in. colleagues, as we are seeing, hate is contagious and we have seen how fast it is travelling. but i believe that courage is contagious, too, the courage being shown by the oppressed community in hungary, poland, in georgia yesterday, and elsewhere all around the world, to feel proud of whoever they are. the same courage that was shown by marsha p. johnson at stonewall 52 years ago. we must, as the european union, now show the same courage and take all the necessary action, as per the resolution, to protect european values and protect european citizens. there is so much courage being shown by the queer community around the world from hungary to poland, from poland to georgia, from georgia to ghana and all across the world, the courage to be who we are, the courage to love who we love, the courage to come out of the closet, the courage to assemble even when police state that they would not protect us, the courage to go in the streets and affirm our identity, and the courage to be seen in front of those who believe we should not exist.
mr president, i see that you are very active with your hammer today. so i have, first of all, a question to the commission, can that be done independently from my speaking time? because i hear, in the german press, that there is a suspension of the recovery plan of hungary. but the german press is not the official gazette of the european union. my question: is this the truth? has that been done? (a voice responds ‘i will reply to it)ok, that is confirmation that you will reply to it. this house has a right to know if there is a suspension of the recovery plan of hungary; that is a major decision. we also need to know because ms von der leyen didn’t say anything about that this morning in her intervention, and we need to know that. so, that was outside my speaking time, if would allow me. saying that, i have followed this debate since this morning, and i’m stunned. i say that to slovenian presidency. after three years, closing the university, closing a radio station like klubradio, going after the judges, the only thing that you can say here is: oh, we got the debate, and it was an interesting debate, and we didn’t apply article 7 paragraph 1, because we had no time to do it; we cannot decide. i think that’s a shame! when are you going to take the only decision that you need to take, that is to request from hungary to repeal the lgtbi law that had been voted. that is what you have to decide. no, madam commissioner, it is not sufficient to hold it on the agenda; there needs to be a decision. article 7 was launched by this parliament three years ago. it’s a shame that, after three years, the only thing you have to tell us is: oh, we will come back later on in autumn.
mr president, i think this will follow on well after guy verhofstadt’s speaking time. i really fail to understand how it is possible that the situation in hungary cannot be dealt with in a calm, straightforward, consistent and legitimate way with the tools we have, and they are efficient. the article 7 procedure needs to be pursued. it needs a new set of hearings during the slovenian presidency, and it needs recommendations during the french presidency. then, if at the end of 2022, rule of law is not back in hungary, we will need to follow up and to think about sanctions and maybe we will need to think about withdrawing voting rights, because that is what happens when a member steps out of democracy. it cannot still have a say in an overall democratic, crucial organisation. we need hungary’s recovery plan to be scrutinised more than the others; not because we want to punish the hungarian government by this means for all the outrageous laws that they’ve been making for a decade. no, simply because we know we have a huge problem of corruption in hungary. i’m not inventing it. the group of states against corruption (greco), the european anti-fraud office (olaf), academic research and your own internal assessment in the commission are saying it. the public procurements are fake. there’s no transparency on how the eu money is used, and we know that there is a risk that the final beneficiary will not get the funds. so it’s simple. then we will need to activate the eu rule of law mechanism regulation about all the other european money that goes to hungary because, there again, we have serious doubts. (applause)
mr president, family and social policy is a matter for the sole discretion of the nations, and is decided by the treaties. by trying to condemn viktor orbán's hungary, you want to condemn the sovereign choice of this people who elected and re-elected their representatives by a large margin, with scores that obviously make you pale with envy. this condemnation is part of an ideological debate which is supposedly progressive. you say you want to defend human rights, but you want to subject the peoples of the european nations to an aggressive communitarianism, pushed by commercial lobbies, encouraging the destruction of all the traditional structures, of all the supporting walls that have made european civilization. your logic, wherever it is imposed, destroys social relations and promotes exclusion because it is based on minority demands in the service of the market, which you have the audacity to baptize 'human rights'. yes, hungary has the right to promote the traditional family model. yes, hungary has the right to protect children from subjects who are not their age. don't be displeased, the rule of law you boast about is respect for freedom, the choice of the people.
mr president, the hungarian law we are discussing deserves the attention of the citizens of hungary in particular, who should have their say on it, because the organisation and content of education is a matter for the member states. in implementing them, hungary and poland must have in mind the protection of the human dignity of all their citizens, indeed of all. and i want to assure my colleagues, colleague biedrona, that she has my support and need not fear, we will defend their human dignity. and it seems that these laws do indeed provoke and therefore create great contradictions among citizens, but they have no impact on other member states, and that is what i consider important, and that is why i think they should be assessed primarily at national level. what is serious and why i decided to speak: there are things, there are initiatives of the hungarian government that have an impact on other member states, and that is the annoying disinformation campaign of the hungarian government printed in some european newspapers as a paid advertisement on june 29. it happened in the czech republic, spain, denmark, and elsewhere, and it may not have been published just because the newspapers refused to print it. the european union is an empire according to the hungarian government and the european parliament is a dead end. these and other manipulative and false claims must be rejected. and it's no coincidence that this disinformation propaganda of the hungarian government appeared in the newspaper owned by the czech prime minister. from a political point of view, these ads are an intrusion into the public space of other countries, as russia does. and i think we have to be careful, and that is why i also call on the commission to assess whether hungary is violating the legal principle of loyal cooperation between eu member states. commissioner, please intervene.
mr president, on monday, reporters without borders published its 2021 'predators of press freedom' gallery, featuring for the first time a european, viktor orbán, alongside 36 other heads of state and government, putin, xi, erdoğan and bin salman. what a shame, what a sadness for europe to have a european on this dark list! in poland, civil society is also very concerned about the government's alleged 're-pollination' of the media to influence their editorial policy. since 2011, when hungary took over the presidency of the council of the european union, we have been expressing concerns about the rule of law in the country and the repercussions that inaction could have on other member states, like an old scratched disc. how long are we going to be "worried" about this? because the repercussions are there. the institutions of the european union must live up to their responsibilities and do much more than talk and worry. we must defend fundamental rights, freedom of expression and freedom of the press, the cornerstones of our democracies. and now, madam commissioner, is the time. we have the tools to do it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, viktor orbán tells us that his law is not homophobic. who are we kidding here? who are we kidding? of course this law is homophobic. of course it will discriminate against lgbti people. no one is fooled. your ultra-conservatism, your retrograde ultra-conservatism, you here, on the right of this house, is violating the rights of europeans who ask for nothing more than to love and live freely. but that's not all. not only do you disappoint hope, you also encourage fraud and corruption in hungary. it is therefore imperative, madam commissioner, that the commission does not approve the hungarian recovery plan as it stands. orbán and his cronies cannot enrich themselves at the expense of the european taxpayer. so, minister, do you really want to put the rule of law at the heart of your slovenian presidency? well, go ahead, uphold the rule of law in hungary and poland, uphold the rule of law and beware of joining these governments in their illiberal project.
mr president, i have just heard some of my colleagues on the german and italian far right say to us: 'mind your own business'. they have gone to lunch in the meantime, but i also heard a hungarian colleague say the same thing to us. but, ladies and gentlemen, do you really want european money from the structural funds to finance schools, training centres and universities, even though you refuse to allow us to discuss topics such as homosexuality or the gender question? you want european money, but you do not want european values. my dear colleagues, yes, we are meddling in our own affairs! on this subject, since the council is in a state of brain death, i turn to the european commission: madam vice-president, will you validate partnership agreements and operational programmes for regions that do not want lgbt people? for a country like hungary, which refuses to talk about homosexuality in schools? will you accept that european funds should finance these projects? well, i will tell you this: if you do this, our european parliament will take its responsibilities and go to the court.
in writing. rightly, the overwhelming majority of council members were outraged by the anti-lgbtqi law introduced by orbán in hungary. orbán has crossed red lines before, but this time he has fallen further than ever. i welcome the reaction of most heads of state and government, but it must not stop there. the council must trigger article 7 against this hungarian government. all legal means must be used to show orbán that he has gone too far. we are a union of values, whether orbán likes it or not. he doesn't want to hear the truth, so he has to take the consequences. the anti-lgbtqi law in hungary goes against everything the european union stands for. when you are a member of the eu, you share our values. this is not an à la carte menu. we must stand up against the deteriorating situation of lgbtqi rights in hungary. we must act and hold the hungarian government to account. this is about protecting what is most precious to us, the freedom of our citizens.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is at least one area where the european union is not measuring the budgetary impact of its decisions, either for itself or for the member states: this is immigration. on 23 september 2020, the commission outlined its asylum and immigration pact, which is based on a coercive approach towards nations, including forced relocations or surveillance of member states, which will lead to the expansion of access to europe to unlimited global immigration. in concrete terms, this pact for immigration will open the way for 70 million candidates to migrate to europe, according to the gallup study on intentions of extra-european migration to our countries. what is striking about the procedure, although it is very opaque, for adopting this pact is the total absence of an impact study, given the masses at stake. to take in tens of millions of people, to provide them with everything, to treat them, to feed them, to house them, to train them - it's going to cost a lot of money. to give you an idea, ladies and gentlemen, consider that in france the association of departments has estimated the cost of a single migrant child at 50 000 euros per year and per person, which for france is a bill of 2 billion euros, with an exponential increase. a study by the university of amsterdam estimates the cost of immigration in the netherlands alone at €400 billion for the period 1995-2019 and €600 billion for the next 20 years, or €1 trillion over 40 years. for a country like france, this would be more than €3 trillion. and yet, i don't take into account the fact that my country is experiencing more immigration and offers a more generous welfare state. that is why i ask you, in the name of reason and democracy, which requires you to tell the truth to the citizens, to assess the impact of your crazy migration policy, both for the eu and for the member countries. if you do not want to do this, it means that you are in favour of immigration at all costs and that the submersion of our countries is not a foretold disaster for you, but a project.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, in many european countries, abstention is on the rise. many citizens think that politics is useless, that it no longer changes daily life, that it is powerless in the face of lost jobs, difficult monthends, hospitals that close. and frankly, when i sometimes hear our debates in this house, i want to tell people who doubt that i understand them, because it is these concrete concerns that should be the only ones guiding your political agenda and that of the commission. how can we prevent the planet from burning even more, literally, after record temperatures in canada approaching 100 degrees fahrenheit [50°c]? how can we mitigate climate change to avoid the widespread chaos predicted by the ipcc and already illustrated by the climate famine in madagascar? how can we save the jobs threatened, like those of the 300 employees of the poitou foundry who burned their voting cards to denounce their abandonment? how can we help the most vulnerable who are struggling to make ends meet when the billionaires have seen their wealth increase by 30%? just imagine: if the smic in france had increased at the same rate, this would have been 370 euros more per month. how can we stop the tax evasion of the ultra-rich like bernard arnault or of the big multinationals like lvmh that plunder the revenues of our states? so how do we respond to the two challenges of our time: the crisis of inequality and the climate catastrophe? and how do we tackle those responsible, the neoliberal economic system that is destroying everything? a green paint job on a discounted climate package isn't gonna change that. we must tackle the structural problems of the european union to get out of the market- and profit-oriented system that is draining the planet and the people. a token tax on multinationals and a mini-stimulus plan that has already expired will have no impact. it takes fresh money to invest in public services and to trigger the ecological bifurcation. the essence of politics is to serve the demands of the people. if you persist in disrespecting them, don't be surprised if they lose respect for you. so, listen to the alert of the citizens on a civic strike. because a democracy without voters is no longer a democracy.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first and foremost, i would like to thank you for your valuable interventions, for the comprehensive overviews provided by the committees and for the fact that today’s exchange has clearly demonstrated there is close alignment on our key priorities. i very much appreciated the very concrete remarks on solidarity and our common work by mr olbrycht because we exactly needed to respond in this way in a form of a beefed-up multiannual financial framework development of the new next generation eu instruments, because we need to move from the crisis management, from tackling pandemics, to the economic recovery. ms bonafè was speaking about the need to have more inclusive growth, to be more green, to tackle the poverty, where i think it was very much echoed also by the statement by ms rondinelli and ms aubry. and mr giegold was highlighting the importance of the green deal together with mr azmani, highlighting the urgency of the matter. and therefore i agree with mr azmani that 2024 is indeed around the corner and i also can subscribe to his suggestion what should be our recipe for success and this is three time implementation and this is, i think, what would be so important to do in the next year. i also, in a nutshell, would like to reassure you that whether it relates to the response to the socio-economic crisis generated by the pandemic or the role of the twin green and digital transition to build europe back better, more green, more resilient, more digital, or the swift implementation of the spending programmes of the multiannual financial framework, we share the same objective. and as i stressed in my introductory remarks, we need to collectively focus on delivering the outstanding legislative commitments set forth in the political guidelines of president von der leyen, and we know how important our work in the next weeks and months in this respect will be. honourable members, dear colleagues, we are, as i said, still delivering on the current commission work programme for this year. but the preparations for the 2022 commission work programme are well under way. and i’m sure that in the meantime we will be in very close contact with you and following the september state of the union address and accompanying letter of intent we will continue our interinstitutional dialogue on the programme for the next year. so my colleagues and i are very much looking forward to exchanging further views with you to get your invaluable input and then to work on our priorities in the next year.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to thank you for the opportunity to present the state of the art of the digital covid certificate. last week, on 1 july, the regulations establishing this certificate came into force, less than four months after the commission, at the instigation of its president, began preparing its proposals. we had hoped to have the system up and running in time for the summer. the commission made this promise when we knew that work should be carried out in parallel, both at the political and the technical level. at the time, many people wondered whether the european union could achieve such a result in such a short time. but thanks to the joint determination of your parliament, the council and the commission, and the national authorities of the member states, we were able to achieve this ambitious goal in record time. i would like to thank you again for your commitment to making this project a reality. thanks to our efforts, citizens and other legal residents now have free access to an interoperable certificate that works wherever they go in europe. while we can be proud of this achievement, the work did not end with the conclusion of the legislative process. a lot of technical progress also had to be accomplished. i am pleased to underline that as of 1 july all member states are connected to the system, as are our partners of the european economic area: iceland, liechtenstein and norway. actually, i have my own certificate on my smartphone and i was able to use it, it was not needed, to come to strasbourg. i'm sure it's the case of many of you to use the same kind of certificates in different kinds of travels. in fact member states have already issued more than 200 million eu certificates, a truly impressive number. some member states have indicated that they are not yet issuing all three types of certificates, but this is a limited and temporary phenomenon which is part of the phasing-in period. the commission is working closely with the member states to support a smooth rollout. commission experts are organising frequent meetings with experts from the member states to resolve technical implementation issues, if any, and we continue to work on further improvements and simplifications to the system, in particular regarding the verification of certificates. we have also issued guidance to the member states on the use of the certificates by airlines. we are also willing to work with interested partners around the world who wish to connect their covid-19 certificates to the eu system, where they are based on the same core principles of security and data protection. for this purpose, we have made our standards and software publicly available. the recognition of certificates issued by third countries will be subject to equivalence decisions. the first third country being connected will be switzerland given the agreement on free movement of persons concluded between the eu and this country. the commission will adopt very soon an implementing decision connecting switzerland to the eu system. after, we were able to confirm that switzerland meets the technical conditions and provided formal assurance that it will accept eu certificates. as you know, after the agreement on the digital covid certificate regulation, the commission also proposed to update the council recommendation on travel within the european union. we sought to reinforce the coordinated eu approach to give practical effect to the important principles agreed in the new regulation and to enable citizens to make best use of their certificate. following the adoption of this updated recommendation, i am happy to report that most member states are indeed exempting fully vaccinated or recovered persons from testing and quarantine requirements. other member states are in the process of adapting their rules as a result of the entry into application of the eu certificate. in addition, the indication of a negative test result in the eu certificate typically exempts its holder from quarantine requirements unless he or she travels from a high-risk area. of course, we acknowledge that there are still differences in approaches between member states. some of these differences are fully within the logic of our recommendation. for example, member states accept vaccines not centrally approved by the eu, such as vaccines on the who emergency list. one could of course push for an even more harmonised approach, but then we would also have to require some member states to adopt stricter measures than what they have in place now. i can assure you that the commission continues to advocate for a coordinated approach and for a gradual and safe lifting of restrictions. at the end of june, together with commissioners kyriakides and breton, we sent a letter to all member states in which we underlined the importance of a consistent and timely implementation of the eu certificate and of the council recommendations, and we continue to reach out bilaterally where we see further room for improvement. at the same time, it cannot be excluded that some member states will re-impose restrictions in cases where the epidemiological situation in another member state worsens rapidly, in particular as a result of a variant of concern. as you know, member states have this possibility under the eu certificate regulation and a revised recommendation on intra-eu travel which provides for an emergency brake. for example, germany activated this mechanism recently. it had informed the commission that it considered portugal as a virus variant area. let me underline that as of today, germany no longer applies this risk categorisation to portugal. in general it is important that any triggering of the emergency brake is communicated to the commission and other member states as soon as possible. member states should also follow the approach agreed in the recommendation, taking strict measures like quarantine but avoiding travel bans. but we now have a framework for such exceptional measures. as far as monitoring is concerned, the commission is using different channels. both the regulation and the recommendation require member states to inform the commission of certain measures they take. more generally, our services gather information on the reopened eu platform and member states are providing us with information on a weekly basis. obviously, there are many different variables involved, such as constant changes in the epidemiological situation or the emergence of variants of concern, and these pose challenges, but the commission is fully committed to continuing its efforts. the eu certificate regulation also underlines the importance of universal, timely and affordable access to vaccines and testing. to further support the availability of affordable tests, the commission committed, in its statement accompanying the agreement on the certificate, to mobilise eur 100 million under the emergency support instrument for the purchase of tests that qualify for the eu certificate. on 7 june the commission asked member states to express interest for this additional financial support. twenty-four member states have responded positively and the commission has invited them to apply for the funding. the grants will take the form of lump-sum contributions. the overall amount will be determined on the basis of the number of tests that the member state commits to provide to its citizens during the implementation period. the maximum amount that can be received by a member state will be calculated on a pro rata basis. at the moment, the commission does not plan to make additional funding available on top of the eur 100 million already committed. but as vaccination rates continue to increase, we will hopefully need fewer and fewer tests as we move forward. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital covid certificate is in fact proof that the union can act quickly and provide concrete solutions to citizens. this certificate is a tool that will allow europeans to travel more freely this summer and beyond, in safety and with confidence. it will also help us to revive the european economy, and not just in the tourism sector. i would like to thank you again for your support in the development of the regulations. this support has been essential in this case and i would of course welcome your comments and observations on this in a moment.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it’s not often as a member of the european parliament that you can very concretely and personally scrutinise the fruits of our labour. but with this covid certificate, we actually can because i got my second vaccination last monday, i already did a test on monday in order to travel to strasbourg, and on tuesday morning both were very nicely uploaded to the app on my phone. so i am happy to be able to confirm myself personally that it actually works, which is very good news. and just like commissioner already said, let’s not forget that the proposal was only launched four months ago, less than four months ago. and today more than 200 million certificates have been issued by the member states, 200 million small steps towards a return to normality, towards regaining our freedom of movement. this is a great result. and it also shows that europe is delivering on its promise. however, it’s also not all good news. and i’m disappointed that quite a few member states decided to use the option of phasing in the scheme for six weeks, and that also in some countries, not all three certificates are actually available to be issued. i think that all europeans should have the right to receive their certificate and i really call on those member states to make sure that those europeans will have the same rights as soon as possible. in this parliament, we have strongly insisted on coordination and on the importance of clear, comprehensive and timely information to citizens. and we welcome the work that has been done there. but it’s not enough. we still hear many stories from our citizens, from travellers, that they’re not sure what exactly is expected of them. and these questions are mainly not about technicalities but they are about the patchwork of national rules that is still present today. and we need to get rid of this patchwork if we want to allow our citizens to cross borders in a predictable way. and, of course, the delta variant is there. and yes, member states have the opportunity to impose restrictions because to or in order to protect their national health. but let us do that in a non-discriminatory and in a proportionate way, and unfortunately, that is not what we’re seeing today. so our call on the member states – please cooperate, please coordinate, please make sure the rules are predictable and easy to understand for our citizens, and don’t do it for us but do it specifically for those citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr reynders, in the years that i have been serving european citizens in this european parliament as a legislator on fundamental rights, justice and home affairs, i have never seen a legislative procedure like the one that made the european union's digital covid certificate possible. and i certainly had not seen that, just one week after the european union's digital covid certificate was brought into force by the urgency procedure, we are debating nothing less than the state of implementation of that mandate contained in a regulation that is european law binding on all member states. and we've detected in this week that it carries into effect problems that were predictable. first, that transitional stage of adaptation of the critical and technological infrastructures necessary to ensure the issuing and receipt of the certificate with homogeneous characteristics throughout the european union has created a landscape of differentiated practices which must be monitored and corrected as soon as possible by the commission so that all member states offer the same guarantees. because that was the point: to establish legal certainty where there was uncertainty. the idea was to relaunch schengen, free movement, trust between the member states of the european union and the confidence of the citizens that they could once again try to travel in an area of free movement without internal borders. but a second problem was also predictable. and it is that there has been, in the citizens, a state of unease with regard to the incomplete scope of vaccination, which has to be the preferred option of free movement. it is true that the option of having overcome the disease and that of a negative test is also considered, but for families traveling with minors who have not yet been vaccinated the problem remains. some travel with a vaccination certificate, but minors still have to be tested, and those tests are not free. he was a secondary target. and the third is that the citizens should know as soon as possible that this regulation is a law, but it was not designed to last forever. duration: one year. hopefully, the herd immunity will allow the european union not only to get past the pandemic and the certificate but to launch into this operation of great global solidarity, learning the lesson that we will not all be safe until we are all safe on a global scale.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, i think for a debate like the debates today it’s a pity that the council isn’t there, because actually i think, the commission has delivered, parliament has delivered: the take-up of 200 million certificates! i hadn’t heard it before, but that’s an amazing proof that we did the right thing, and that people are desperate to regain their freedom of movement. and that’s exactly what we all very consensually – with exceptional consensus – agreed in this house. the problem is, and it has been raised by the previous speakers, that the member states a few weeks later adopted a common approach. and we said, this is great: now people will really be able to travel. but the ink hadn’t dried on the common approach, and the member states went their own way again. and now again, we are dealing with a kind of spaghetti of national rules, and people are clueless. and there are many people coming to all of us asking, how does it work? what do i need? what about my children? can i be vaccinated once, twice? what kind of test? how many hours in advance do i have to quarantine? and it’s simply impossible to tell them. now i don’t think anybody in this house – or most reasonable people, probably, are against restrictions: we see the delta variant going around. so of course measures need to be taken, but they should be taken on a harmonised european basis, not a national basis. i mean, i really don’t think it’s reasonable to say that there are 27 different scientific notions which are all equivalent on the virus. we need a european approach, citizens need clarity. and i think i would also like to hear a little bit more from the commission, first of all about, indeed, the phasing-in: how far are the member states? because i hear there are member states which are still not even connected to the system, which have delays. and i’d also like to hear a little bit more about the occurrence of fraud, because we got some reports of certificates which have been obtained on the basis of false vaccination at the station. so maybe you can say a little bit more about that.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. digitalization is the answer to many problems, including the challenges of covid-19. the eu certification gives hope that many europeans will be able to holiday abroad safely this year and that businesses operating in the tourism sector will be able to operate and re-create jobs that have been eliminated. unfortunately, the first days of this system brought chaos and queues at many airports. there are still differences in interpretation of the rules which cause delays and unnecessary nerves for passengers. i hope that the commission will be actively involved in the process of supporting the member states in implementing this tool and in removing the problems. we must also do everything possible to ensure that this system also works efficiently for third-country nationals who want to come to europe. many of them do not know whether vaccination certificates issued outside the union will be recognised by our health services or not. i am proud that poland was one of the first member states to issue and recognise eu digital vaccination and disease certificates. this is another example of the tremendous progress that has been made in the area of digitization in public administration in my country in recent years.
on behalf of the left group. the commission is not 200 million allowances have been issued so far. this shows that the regulation is accepted by the citizens and yet it is a good idea for which we have fought, pulled hair, spent nights beating around the ears. we did all that, and that's our job, too, so it has to be. but why, i ask myself now, when i go to greece, do i have to fill in a passenger locator form where i have to say exactly where i am and for how long? and i'm being threatened that if i'm not fully vaccinated, i'll be tested again, possibly even after i arrive. compulsory forms are also required for spain. travel spain health is beautiful. in italy or france, you need an honest explanation. other places, they do with the certificate what they want to do. a veritable labyrinth of additional national provisions and now i say as an expert on german small states: depending on the principality and county with its own sign on sword and shield. the member states, even if they have a very good purpose for themselves, are the guardians of a great many meaningless regulations. as long as it's your own. but european policy is not the sum of national ego trips, which clearly underlines the fundamental right to free movement. the beauty of the national map is relative in a patchwork of carpets and confuses the citizens. we should put an end to this, and a little more europeanism is not really too much to ask at this point. let's just do it like this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. unfortunately, the pandemic is not over, and that's why we need to make sure that as many people as possible get vaccinated as quickly as possible. the vaccine is now available. in a few days, we as the eu have overtaken the united states of america in vaccination. but now it's about convincing skeptics. and there are many who say, "but if i'm vaccinated, i'm still not 100 percent protected". that's right, you're right. there's no such thing as 100% in medicine. but a famous virologist once said that if the dog barks in the kennel, it is usually the dog and not the zebra. that means we should communicate: the vaccine protects, and it protects others. and that's why it's medically justified to treat people who are vaccinated differently and give them back their freedoms. but we need to look even more closely at the areas where vaccination has been lacking. i am very concerned about what is happening in bulgaria. i hear the interim health minister is not very convincing in his vaccination campaign, and at the same time russian tourists are being allowed into the country in large numbers. this is an open flank, also for europe. on the other hand, if people are double vaccinated - and i have said this critically to my own government in germany - then it is not proportionate to put them in quarantine for 14 days when they come from portugal, and that does not help convince people either. so i'm very glad that this has been resolved. we should act medically justified: restrict only when it is justified, not arbitrarily.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. digital covid certificates have been in effect since last week to facilitate freedom of travel during the pandemic. that's a good sign, first of all. but despite the certificates, despite new advice for more uniform travel rules, a new patchwork of restrictions is emerging in dealing with the virus variants. people from the same region have to be quarantined in member state a, and there are no restrictions in member state b. this uncoordinated and non-transparent approach is leading to uncertainty and anger among our citizens. it affects the acceptance and ease of use of the certificates and it weakens confidence in european decisions. the council therefore asks: what are you doing to ensure that the rules are more uniform everywhere? in addition to common binding criteria, free testing would also facilitate the launch of the certificates, especially for those who have not yet been able or wanted to be vaccinated. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. but that is no longer part of commissioner reynders' plans, despite reports that poorer groups of the population are not yet well vaccinated. i would therefore like to ask the commission: how do you intend to ensure that the facilitation of freedom of movement does not become a purely financial matter?
mr president, commissioner, on 1 july the eu digital covid certificate became a reality, and as i had already announced in this plenary, i think everybody should be happy about that. such a coordinated initiative at eu level is great, because it should replace the patchwork of actions that every country was taking. however, we need to ensure that as many citizens as possible get access to the certificate, particularly also those – for different reasons – who cannot be vaccinated. to guarantee access to the certificate, we need to increase the testing capacity in each country by making the tests free for all. i therefore ask the european commission to mobilise additional funding, as this parliament had already asked before the approval of the certificate. more and free testing means that more people would be able to safely move around. we need this not just for tourists or tourism, but also to re-launch our economy, help citizens to get their lives back. every citizen has the right to do so, and we need to make sure no one is left behind.
mr president, commissioner reynders, it took the european union exactly three months and 15 days to launch the european covid-19 certificate and for us to regain our freedom of movement between member states. only three and a half months to go before our european health pass comes into force. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the introduction of a european certificate for the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. three and a half months that allowed the european union to develop a digital portal interconnected with national systems, through which each member state can verify the authenticity of a vaccination certificate, a negative pcr test or a recovery certificate issued by any other european country. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr jeroen lenaers, on his exemplary work. since it came into force on 1 july, 250 million citizens have already downloaded the certificate, more than one in two european citizens. the european union has been very effective in enabling everyone to travel this summer and thus reviving the tourism sector. it should be remembered that 50% of world tourism is taking place in european countries. so yes, this european health pass is a real success. it is now the responsibility of each member state to adapt its vaccination strategy to vaccinate more and to prevent the relapse of infections, which is still relatively localised and due to the emergence of new variants, from becoming widespread.
madam president, madam commissioner, the strengthening of the powers of the european medicines agency is the first building block of the european union of health, which we have been so lacking, but which is beginning to take shape. yes, the new mandate of the ema will allow a real drug policy to be put in place. and in the fall, the ecdc will be coming to strengthen our epidemiological management capacity. but, commissioner, let us be careful about gas factories. the european response programme to health threats, for which i am rapporteur, will be effective if and only if these agencies have the means to work together with convergent missions and a clear definition of the powers and statutes of the future european hera authority. let us ensure the cooperation of the member states by guaranteeing them a coordinated and complementary network of competences. let us make this ambition our common priority.
madam president, commissioner kyriakides, colleagues, this is it. after the report on the shortage of medicines, after the implementation of the eu health programme, after the commission's proposal for a pharmaceutical strategy, we are voting to strengthen the powers of the european medicines agency. it is a further step towards building an effective europe of health, responding to the demands of health professionals and the needs of patients. i am pleased to see the proposals in my report on drug shortages being taken up, including the strengthening of cooperation and coordination between member states, the establishment of structured exchanges with all stakeholders (industry, health professionals and patient associations) and a european database to prevent drug shortages and supply chain problems or overstocking in certain member states. these are all essential advances which we will defend in the negotiations which are now being opened with the member states and which must make it possible, in particular, to create and manage stocks of medicines and medical devices. after almost two years of an unprecedented health crisis and as covid-19 variants cause us to fear a resurgence of the pandemic, it is imperative that we stay the course. we need a more responsive system to better protect our citizens today and tomorrow, to be better prepared and to strengthen our health sovereignty so that safe, high quality and effective medicines, responding to public health emergencies, can be developed within the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, ms o’sullivan, and of course all the shadow rapporteurs and the entire committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), as well as the opinion-giving committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) and the committee on transport and tourism (tran) for their important work and efforts on this file over the last weeks and months. environment action programmes (eaps) have guided the development of eu environmental policies since the early 1970s. the previous programme, the 7th eap, expired at the end of 2020 and the commission’s proposal for the next eap, which we adopted in october last year, now covers the next decade until 2030. its vocation is to accelerate the union’s transition to a climate-neutral, resource-efficient, clean and circular economy in a just and inclusive manner. the 8th programme also sets a long-term priority objective for 2050 to ensure well-being for all, while staying within the planetary boundaries, and promotes a regenerative economy that gives back to the planet more than it takes. it reflects our joint commitment to the european green deal, which outlines the eu’s environmental and climate objectives. as such, it’s another important building block in our efforts to deliver on the commitments made in the european green deal and on the sustainable development goals (sdgs). the 8th eap proposes a deal to all our institutions. it supports the delivery of the union’s environmental and climate objectives with a focus on implementation at all levels of governance and on the monitoring of progress. my services and i have closely followed the discussions on the commission proposal for the next eap so far, and we take good note of the amendments tabled in view of tonight’s and tomorrow’s plenary vote. while formally reserving the commission’s position at this stage of the legislative procedure, i would nevertheless like to share with you some general remarks. the commission very much appreciate your efforts to respect the lean approach we propose and to ensure that the priority objectives for this decade are ambitious, yet focused. we will carefully analyse the additional ideas you propose to support the green transition taking root on the ground. some avenues you suggest are already under way, such as the mainstreaming of the sdgs into our better regulation policy and instruments. in our better regulation communication from april of this year, we committed to identify relevant sdgs for each proposal and to examine how a new initiative will support their achievement. links to the sdgs will be included from evaluations and impact assessments. looking at some of your amendments related to the enablers and legally binding commitments or actions the commission shall take, i need, however, to be very clear. we must be careful about the legal basis of the proposal, which is limited to environment and climate policies. this means the 8th eap cannot cover questions for which the treaty provides a dedicated legal base, and it goes without saying that the provisions of the 8th environmental action programme should also be without prejudice to the commission’s right of initiative, which is enshrined in our treaties. i acknowledge parliament’s efforts to identify an alternative option on the mid-term review than the one proposed by the council, but still we have to be cautious not to go too far in prescribing what the next commission, after 2024, has to do, how and when. we also appreciate your strong interest in monitoring of progress and your call to clarify the articulation between the different tools to monitor progress towards our environmental and climate objectives. we take note that you propose a further cross—cutting tool. it’s important to discuss the purpose and the use of each of these tools in order to avoid any duplication. in the context of the upcoming trilogues, we will therefore be particularly interested in better understanding what exactly you aim to capture with the set of beyond gdp indicators, as those could be numerous depending on the definition of beyond gdp. finally, let me recall that the main rules guiding the relations between the commission and the co—legislators are set out in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which defines the boundaries of the relationship between our institutions. this also includes issues like impact assessment and stakeholder consultation or annual and multiannual interinstitutional programming. the 8th eap should therefore be in line with our interinstitutional agreement and not include further commitments going beyond. honourable members, i look forward to listening to your views and comments tonight, and i can reassure you that the commission is ready to discuss with the co—legislators and play its role as an honest broker during the upcoming trilogues.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, i would like to thank our rapporteur grace o’sullivan and underline the very good cooperation between the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on transport and tourism, ensuring an ambitious ep position on the eighth environment action programme (eap) in view of the interinstitutional negotiations. the eighth eap aims to set out a framework for eu environmental and climate policy actions, and a monitoring system until 2030, based on the european green deal, to guarantee that the eu is on track with climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest and achieve its 2030 biodiversity strategy towards a sustainable well-being economy within planetary boundaries. these are ensured by the active engagement of all stakeholders at all levels of governance, mainstreaming gender, contributing to reach the european pillar of social rights, the un sdgs and the due diligence concept.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, when she became president of the european commission, president von der leyen made the fight against global warming and the protection of the environment a top priority. i am delighted that we can vote tomorrow on this 8th environment action plan. i would also like to thank all the negotiators with whom we have had very constructive negotiations on this text. this action programme is a further step towards implementing the european green deal. it represents a serious approach to environmental action, an approach which my colleagues from the epp and i, together with peter liese, have been tirelessly advocating. to set goals, we need to know upfront whether they are achievable and then, on the basis of scientific data, assess our progress in implementing them. this action programme will serve to evaluate these developments. the principle of mid-term review which we introduce in this text is also essential as it will make it possible to adjust our actions in the light of what has already been achieved. our goals are many and the most important of them - carbon neutrality by 2050 - requires considerable effort. the european commission's forthcoming announcement of the climate package will be one of the most striking illustrations of this. more than ten pieces of legislation will need to be amended or created to make these objectives a reality. it is easy to get lost in them! but with this action programme, we will have a kind of compass until 2030 so that our results finally match our objectives. it will enable the european union to create the conditions for sustainable growth within planetary boundaries so that the ecological transition creates new jobs and contributes to the well-being of our citizens. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i will naturally vote with my group, the epp, on this text, and i invite you to do the same.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, in the context of the 8th environment action programme, the union's transition to a climate neutral and inclusive economy must be swift and fair. the environmental objectives of the united nations 2030 agenda and those of sustainable development must also be achieved. the programme is an ambitious high-level strategic tool under the guidance of the european union's environment policy until 2030. it should include the actions and objectives of the european green deal and the sustainable development goals. at the same time, it should closely monitor progress towards the objectives. by 2050 at the latest, people should be living well, within planetary boundaries, in a prosperous and sustainable economy where nothing is wasted. a clean environment will ensure the health of people. biodiversity and ecosystems will flourish and nature will be protected. this will increase resilience to climate change, natural disasters and other environmental hazards. as s&ds, we have ensured that social issues are included, such as references to reducing inequalities. we have also ensured that the measures taken to achieve the objectives of the eighth programme will be implemented in a socially just and inclusive manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and the excellent collaboration she has had with all those responsible for this important project on the environment framework programme. for more than 40 years, the framework programmes have guided the european union's environmental policy, but this eighth framework programme is different, because it takes on board the climate objectives of the european green deal and therefore its continuity, also, beyond 2024. this framework programme assumes that biodiversity loss, climate change, pollution and unsustainable practices such as nature-damaging subsidies are endangering current and future generations. and that's why we have to act, and act quickly. it is true, commissioner, that with caution, but also very effectively. because this framework programme, for example, reinforces past and failed commitments, such as setting a date for the elimination of all direct and indirect subsidies harmful to nature. but i would remind you that the seventh framework programme set the date for 2020. setting a date is no guarantee of success. so let us act with diligence. this report reinforces the interconnection between environmental policies and health and climate policies. there are no healthy citizens on a sick planet, there is no healthy economy on a sick planet. nature contributes more than half of the world's gdp. so we reach out to work on this text and strengthen it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this 8th environment action programme must put an end to the endangerment of the safety of the planet. climate, oceans, biodiversity: internationally, as here in europe, four of the nine planetary boundaries have been crossed. the warning sounded by scientists has led us to adopt the sustainable development goals, but the race to infinite gdp growth on a finite planet remains the alpha and omega of european policies. we must go further, because while we keep calling for respect for planetary boundaries to guide our action, we have still not invested enough in research to obtain the appropriate scientific tools for planetary boundaries, which we could combine with respect for social rights that have become binding. we know that there will be no respect for planetary boundaries without a profound change in our economy and our governance. we must integrate planetary boundaries into our treaties, and already into the european semester. for almost 20 years, gdp has been called into question as the only indicator of the effectiveness of public policies. let us finally move towards a society of harmony with life and well-being.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleague rapporteur grace, we know the urgency of acting for the climate, acting for our oceans - i assure you, i am not going to talk about fisheries today - for our ecosystems. now we need concrete action, tangible action. i have a minute to tell you that in the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, in which i had the pleasure of working, we raised a lever for action which was not included in the final report. i will say it again: we are talking about transport, we are talking about fuel changes, we are talking about new engines, but we must also talk about optimisation. it may seem rather trivial like this, but at least a truck that doesn't drive because it doesn't need to drive pollutes less. a boat that chooses a better route, a car that chooses a better route... i want to remember it here. i also know, commissioner, that you are fascinated by and interested in innovation, and i believe that we are in the middle of it. we're going to have an ocean of data. we must use it to optimise transport. it is also a lever we must not neglect or forget.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, since my arrival in the european parliament, i have been constantly making the voice of the ocean heard and the importance of maritime issues understood. so today, with this resolution, we want to make the voice of the antarctic ocean ice heard and support the much needed creation of two vast marine protected areas of 3 million square kilometres. there's only one ocean. its southern part, which circles the antarctic continent, plays a major role in the balance of the climate and contains resources that provide vital ecosystem services for all mankind. it is a common good of mankind. before i set foot on the antarctic continent, i circled it twice on my two world tours and then traveled to one of the subantarctic islands, south georgia. i can testify to the richness of these seas, where one is constantly accompanied by albatrosses. on the antarctic peninsula, our biologist and diver on board captured some stunning images, testimony to nature's ingenuity in an extreme environment. but since then, scientists have been warning that antarctica's climate is warming three times faster than the global average. the latest analysis of ice cores shows that antarctic ice is contaminated by microplastics and polymers. tourists are increasingly coming, and krill fishing is threatening the balance of whale and penguin populations. the creation of these marine protected areas under the aegis of the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine fauna and flora is therefore a climate and biodiversity issue. but it is also a diplomatic and geostrategic issue that poses a challenge to the european union. seven eu member states and the union itself are members of the ccamlr, which has 26 members and decisions are taken unanimously. but two countries, as we have said, china and russia, have opposed the creation of these marine protected areas on nine occasions. president von der leyen has made these marine areas a key objective of this mandate, and i wish to give her my full support and welcome your own commitment, commissioner. following the g7 declarations and the latest eu-us summit, the eu must take the lead in convincing the two reluctant states, including china, of the diplomatic advantage they would gain from not slowing down, in the run-up to cop15. just as the support of the united states was fundamental to the creation of the first marine protected areas, the european union must act in these negotiations. in conclusion, i would like to thank all my colleagues, including grace o'sullivan, and their teams, for working together on this first european parliament resolution on antarctica.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs and the fictional rapporteurs, particularly my colleague catherine chabaud and my colleague grace o'sullivan, for their work on antarctica. the preservation of antarctica is really a subject which is being tackled here through a rather maritime aspect - commissioner, you are here - and environmental, but it is clearly a strategic subject for us. strategic, because in fact, as we see, there are a number of states in the world that have a predatory attitude on resources, predatory on the environment, predatory on ecosystems. all of this should make us think about our place in the world. we have an extraordinary tool in the european union, it is our ability to deploy this scientific research that allows us to be present and to develop, quite simply, a scientific diplomacy - a diplomacy that allows us, europeans, to say: this is the future we can draw together. i believe that this is what this report is proposing: adaptation to the effects of climate change. this is something that is going to happen in a very important way. let's use our leadership to move this forward. i will simply conclude by saying that a network of marine protected areas would be both a useful tool for the european union's presence on this global stage and, of course, useful for the development of respect for the environment, which is so important to us.
madam president, commissioner, minister, antarctica is certainly an area that must be protected for the environmental reasons that have been set out by all the previous speakers. there are multiple reasons. we therefore hope that this resolution will provide the political backing and support which i hope will give a definitive impetus to the declaration of these marine protected areas. the antarctic ocean is rich in marine life, including species of interest to the fishing industry such as krill and southern hake. but there are other species that have been and are still fished commercially in antarctic waters without being properly documented, such as mackerel and antarctic rock cod. there is still a significant illegal fishing activity in the area. fishing should only be conducted in accordance with sound scientific advice if it is to be sustainable in the long term. the black hake is a key predator in antarctic ecosystems. endangering any of these species can have unexpected consequences for these organisms. illegal fishing is a global problem that has proven difficult to eliminate and the antarctic ocean is difficult to monitor. therefore, given the geographical isolation of the antarctic ocean and the harsh weather conditions, control operations in the area are complex and difficult. illegal fishing activities in the antarctic pose a serious threat to sustainable fisheries and the resilience of marine ecosystems. this is why it is so necessary to declare these marine protected areas and thus ensure the conservation and recovery of the natural heritage and marine biodiversity in the area.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, can one plea be enough for the south pole? of course not. does it take much more than a plea? i certainly do. yes, because saving antarctica is now an absolute emergency that requires much more than words. we must act and we must act quickly. and this is the whole demand of this resolution that europe must carry as a fight for future generations. you know, the european territories closest to the south pole are the french southern and antarctic lands. there are scientists and military personnel working all year round in difficult conditions, and i want to thank them because they are much more than our ambassadors. they're our eyes and ears. they hear the ice crashing as it melts. they see biodiversity disappearing. the stakes are enormous and i will tell you: europe cannot simply stand by and watch. europe must commit itself and this commitment must be heard at the global level. as you have said many times, international powers covet these territories for the wrong reasons. we have to stand up and build these marine protected areas. beyond geopolitics, the force and imminence of the danger today require and call for our responsibility. the south pole may seem far away, but if antarctica disappears, it is here, in the heart of our lives, that we will be impacted. and it's our children we will condemn.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking grace o'sullivan and catherine chabaud, who are the initiators of this resolution on the creation of marine protected areas in the southern ocean. this resolution is crucial because the european union must be united in the face of the blockade by china and russia. the oceans are at the forefront of the fight against climate change and are important but fragile reserves of biodiversity. the creation of mpas in the southern ocean would be a powerful tool to preserve the unique ecosystems of this particularly vulnerable region. for them to be fully effective, they also need to address the problems caused by tourism and by krill fishing, which is the basis of the food chain for many species, including penguins, whales, seals and fish. i hope that these negotiations will be successful and that they will serve as a precedent for strengthening international cooperation for the protection of biodiversity, and in particular for a comprehensive agreement on biodiversity, beyond national jurisdictions. to strengthen our credibility, it is also important to implement the biodiversity strategy and to create enough marine protected areas in europe to cover 30% of european waters.
we are now moving on to the discussions. i would like to inform you again that there will be no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session and that no blue-card questions will be accepted. as in previous sessions, there will also be remote intervention by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on labour rights in bangladesh (2021/2756 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the promotion of human rights and labour rights is an essential part of the union’s external action. and it is with grave concern that the commission has observed the deteriorating situation of human rights, including labour rights, over the past years in bangladesh, from repression of trade unionists and restrictions on the freedom of association, to weak labour inspection and hazardous forms of child labour. bangladesh benefits from the most favourable everything but arms (eba) agreement under our generalised scheme of preferences, with free access to the european union for all its products except arms and ammunition. bangladesh has seen significant economic growth in recent years, leading to its scheduled graduation into a developing country in 2026. eba has greatly contributed to this success. the preferential trade arrangements directly contribute to economic growth, social development and job creation, and it has created around four million jobs in bangladeshi textiles and garment sectors, mostly for women. but this unilateral tariff preferences of the european union also requires more attention to labour standards and human rights. in exchange for the trade benefits, bangladesh must uphold the principles laid down in the core international conventions on fundamental human rights and labour rights. the commission services and the european external action service have intensified dialogue with bangladeshi authorities to press for concrete actions on the serious shortcomings in respecting fundamental labour rights. the covid-19 pandemic and its negative impact on the economy have not made this enhanced engagement with bangladesh any easier, but we continue to demand full compliance with the requirements of the everything but arms agreement. i am glad and i can share with you, honourable members, the first positive results of our enhanced engagement. on 1 july the government of bangladesh submitted its national action plan on the labour sector for the next five years. the national action plan aims to bring the bangladesh labour act and export processing zone labour law into compliance with requests of the international labour organization’s supervisory mechanism. it contains commitments on long-standing issues, including on alignment of the bangladesh labour act and implementing legislation with ilo conventions by september of next year and march 2023 respectively. alignment of the legislation on export processing zone law with ilo conventions by june 2025. while the government of bangladesh presented a detailed timeline, the target date – june 2025 – for the adoption of the amended law, is not as ambitious as the commission had expected. we will continue engaging with the bangladesh authorities to discuss and determine which steps could be taken faster to bring the overall timeline forward to ensure, as soon as possible, that all workers in bangladesh can exercise their fundamental rights to freely associate and form trade unions. eliminating child labour by 2025 and hazardous forms of child labour by this year, by 2021. this will be done through updating the list of hazardous jobs: strengthening labour inspection and fines; child labour survey; capacity-building and training, as well as cooperation with social partners and civil society. the government of bangladesh will also continue to implement the actions regarding school participation and quality of education under its education sector plan. combating violence against workers, harassment, blacklisting and anti-union discrimination through preventive measures, investigation and dissuasive penalties. increasing the success rate of applications for trade union registration. setting up an efficient system to follow up on cases of workers’ complaints. strengthening labour inspection by filling in vacant positions and creating new posts by the end of next year and 2023, respectively. remediation of faulty factories, including the possibility of closure notices for factories where remediation is not possible as of mid-next year. and ratifying ilo convention no 138 on minimum age and protocol of 2014 to ilo convention no 29 on forced labour by december of this year. the eu is not alone in its efforts to improve labour rights in bangladesh. we have not only closely involved the international labour organization in the process of developing the national action plan on labour sector, but the ilo itself has set up a similar but separate process of engagement with bangladesh. let me finish by underlining that the eu-bangladesh process of developing and implementing the national action plan is the most promising step in many years of efforts on bangladesh aligning its labour law and practice with international labour standards. i am fully aware that the most important part, the implementation of the reforms in accordance with the national plan, is still ahead of us, and this will require our continued close engagement with both bangladeshi authorities and the ilo. thank you, honourable members, and i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, bangladesh has benefited greatly from the everything but arms scheme. we are now bangladesh’s largest trading partner, and accounted for 24% of its exports in 2015. i therefore welcome that bangladesh has expressed the wish to benefit from the generalised system of preferences plus, after it graduates from its status of least developed country and becomes ineligible for everything but arms at the end of the decade. in order to do so, it must now demonstrate clear progress on human and labour rights. the fact that bangladesh has delivered a national action plan on the labour sector, which seeks to bring the country’s labour laws into line with the standards of the international labour organisation, is a significant step. it is a token of how the eu’s aid for trade policy can make for positive change on the ground in partner countries. but now bangladesh should focus on the full implementation of the national action plan while respecting all the deadlines, and there we will be very vigilant as a european parliament as well. the commission and the external action service should closely monitor this in cooperation, of course, with all the relevant international and local stakeholders as well as trade unions. a monitoring mission should also be organised, as soon as the covid crisis will allow for it, to really see on—the—spot what is going on, and to accompany the needed progress.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, eight years ago, 1 134 people died in the rana plaza disaster, and still the labour laws of the country are not in line with ilo standards, nor have they really been improved until now. research worldwide shows that bangladesh is one of the worst countries to work in. nevertheless, the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh is about to end without having any proper replacement. brands showed that they had not learned to take their responsibility when, at the peak of the covid crisis, they refused to pay for the orders that had already been made. therefore, a legally binding instrument is needed to uphold brands to their responsibilities. due diligence legislation could potentially be a worthy substitute, but it has not been presented yet. therefore it would be a poor excuse to end the accord without having a proper replacement. it would be like taking a big step backwards before taking a new step forward. as announced, the bangladesh government needs to show its commitment to improve labour rights. so i would indeed ask for the roadmap to be published, for the whole world. it’s necessary that it shows tangible progress, not only on child labour, but also on reform of the export processing zones, on the labour inspectorates, on tackling the backlog of labour—related cases, and trade union registration reform. lastly, i ask the commission: do you agree that individual brand accountability with independent oversight mechanisms are crucial elements that made the bangladesh accord so successful, and that the same elements should therefore also be at the core of its replacement?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the likely exit of bangladesh from the category of least developed countries requires a review of our generous trade policy towards it, especially in view of the meagre progress made in the field of labour law. in the textile sector, the rana plaza tragedy in 2013 has certainly led to some improvements in safety. but in the clothing and leather industry for the local market, for example, 58% of the workers are reported to be under 18 years of age. women in the textile sector are subject to severe abuses in a country that is also gripped by islamist fever - as the charlie hebdo case has shown. moreover, how can the european union, which is never short of moral lessons on the plight of migrants, escape bangladesh's record in the fight against international trafficking in human beings? for example, the authorities sometimes bring legal proceedings against their own citizens who have returned from a period of labour emigration, on the aberrant grounds that they have damaged the national image. this is particularly the case for those who have been victims of kafala, a form of modern-day quasi-slavery, in some islamic countries. the united states has excluded bangladesh from its trade preferences and, it seems, from a possible free trade agreement. the decision recalls that the granting of such benefits is not a right but a privilege.
on behalf of the left group. the commission has already done so. more than four million people work in the textile sector in bangladesh. in their daily hard work, they produce a large proportion of the clothes we wear in europe. there is hardly a textile company that has not shifted production to conditions that i can only describe as exploitation. the wages are so low that every seamstress has to work overtime. often it takes 100 hours of overtime a month to pay the rent for a room for a whole family and to feed the children. even before the pandemic, wages were too low. now, one study has found that those who were able to keep their jobs should accept up to a 65 percent pay cut. factory owners simply refuse to pay, and protests and strikes, which are hardly reported in the eu-27 media, left one dead and 35 injured last week. yes, bangladesh's labour laws need to be changed. the eu is also responsible for this situation. the buyers of european businesses are pushing prices down. let us put an end to these irresponsible acts by making the european supply chain act a legal instrument for the allocation of responsibility in the textile sector. let's calculate the profit margin that would be generated if a woman made 200 sweaters for 70 euros a month. to live a decent life in dakar, she would have to earn 370 euros. and you know what? the necessary increase in the purchase price would hardly be felt here. so first of all, we need an effective supply chain law. secondly, we must ensure that the objectives of the duty of care are supported and not undermined in the forthcoming reform of the trade preference system. and thirdly, we must not look at the textile sector alone. the minimum wage for the many tea pickers in bangladesh is an outrageous 1.17 euros per day. the eu legislators and the commission are directly called upon to do this.
mr. president, who is really talking about labour rights in bangladesh? the european union of the directive for up to 13 hours a day, 78 hours a week? the dissolution of collective agreements and social security? the workers' strike and the ban on strike and demonstration? the european union is a charitable organization, and migrant workers from bangladesh have experienced this firsthand. the labour force in the country, apart from the government and local capital, also bears the stamp of the european union and the west of the european groups, with preferential agreements signed all these years. the commissioner has even praised the government of the country today as a successful example of development. in the so-called free export zones, where your growth miracle is built and where european clothing chains and groups are enriched, there is hard, inhuman work for crumbs, layoffs, child labour, poor health and safety conditions, with hundreds of dead workers and persecution of trade unionists. the struggle for modern workers' insurance and trade union rights and the overthrow of the power of capital that feeds on the exploitation of workers is a one-way street for the peoples.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's been quoted by many, many people. there is still a lot of work to be done in bangladesh. cooperation with the ilo and the european commission is being pursued. commissioner, you have already said a number of things about the national action plan. but i think it should be clear to this parliament - and you hear that in all the interventions - that we want real guarantees for the eradication of child labour, that freedom of association is respected, that not only labour law but also safety regulations are really implemented. and as far as that goes, we're still kind of on a hunger strike, waiting for some real engagement. it is very important that parliament can make a proper assessment of this. if we look at the agreement, we have reason to be very concerned. it's running out of time and we have no vision of a permanent and binding alternative. and let me be clear, going back to a system of self-monitoring is out of the question. that didn't work either. the reason why this drama has been possible is because people have been working with self-monitoring. finally, and i want to stress this very strongly, we must also look at ourselves and our own responsibilities. we've seen that in the midst of covid, western companies have canceled a lot of orders for products that were already made by all those people. and that has had tremendous negative effects. so real, binding due diligence legislation will be essential in the future to take our own responsibility.
mr president, madam commissioner, over the past eight years, more than 1 100 workers, mainly women, have lost their lives in the textile industry. eight years since the rana plaza collapse. eight years, and not enough things have changed. it is true that the sustainability compact, in cooperation with the ilo and the government of bangladesh, was a step towards introducing a degree of accountability in our value chains. it is true that there are early frameworks for due diligence, but voluntary approaches show their shortcomings. the european union, commissioner, remains first and foremost a normative power. it must shape globalisation with high environmental and social standards. now must see the fair exchange for the benefit of all. now ambitious legislation for a duty of vigilance throughout the supply chain must emerge. now a legally binding obligation must be created that will apply to european companies and to companies operating within the single market. legislation that will ensure that all victims of violations of their rights have access to justice and redress. decent working conditions, labour law, trade union rights, environmental standards, virtuous production methods: this is how we will shape globalisation and fundamentally change value chains to make them sustainable and responsible.
mr president, while some people have their heads in the sand, others have their hands in the sand. colleagues, jeff bezos is stepping down as ceo of amazon to devote himself to his passion: space tourism. so when he puts his clothes in his suitcase, i hope he has a thought for the workers of his subcontractors in bangladesh who make clothes for amazon. those workers who were on strike on may 26th; who were sent home without a penny during the lockdown; in order to keep their jobs, they are forced to accept a wage of less than 80 euros per month for 12 hours a day, six days a week, in deplorable conditions. and all this while bezos, sitting on a little cloud, raking in billions to pay for his rocket. ladies and gentlemen, let us force amazon and all the multinationals to come down to earth, to pay their workers a wage that allows them to live with dignity and for which they do not risk their lives. you'll agree that this is not a plea for the moon.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of globalisation, european jobs have been relocated so that bangladeshi workers, particularly women, can be exploited. as for child labour, it is estimated that about one million children are victims of child labour in bangladesh. children working 16 hours a day to produce clothes that are then shipped to europe. but the worst part is that by not applying customs duties to products from bangladesh, the commission has been encouraging these appalling conditions all this time. should everything be given up to so-called free trade? should european jobs be sacrificed ? should women and children be exploited? should we accept climate change with these bangladeshi products being shipped from the other side of the world to the european union? the commission claims to have plans for improvement everywhere. but the reality is that we have no control over the laws and working conditions in bangladesh. what we can control is the policy being pursued in europe. last november, radical groups, islamists, fanatics from bangladesh called for a boycott of french products after the beheading of teacher samuel paty by another islamist. why should we continue to give commercial gifts to bangladesh when we are suffering the hostility of a country where workers are exploited and child labour is not eliminated? let us import our products from elsewhere or, even better, let us bring production and employment back to europe and france.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam speaker, in hong kong, the free press is now treated as a threat to national security. but the terrorism charges are not fooling anyone. press freedom is a threat only to the chinese communist party, which has set out to systematically destroy any democratic resistance to its totalitarian project. a few days ago, the last independent daily newspaper published its last edition. after two police raids, the arrest of its founder jimmy lai, chained to the cameras, the imprisonment of its top executives, the freezing of its bank accounts, the newspaper was forced to cease publication. it's obviously a message. now, all free speech is under threat in hong kong. we in this parliament must express our immense admiration for the courage of those who pay the price for this commitment to democracy, which they have never wavered from: the journalists of apple daily, but also joshua wong, ted hui, claudia mo and many others. we are with them because europe is directly concerned, 10,000 kilometres away. and this is not, contrary to the chinese regime's claim, an internal affair of china. firstly, because it is the unilateral breaking of an agreement it signed with a european country only 35 years ago. so it is not just hong kong's freedom that china is attacking, but the whole western world. it is in fact undermining the whole climate of relations which we can build with it, including on the commercial level. what will happen to the investments we claim to secure with china if this platform that hong kong has always represented for trade relations were to disappear forever, in its freedom, to the benefit of the chinese communist party? europe must promote the principles of the rule of law to which it takes pride in adhering in its commercial and political negotiations. she has to prove her consistency here. we are expected because, in fact, it is the future of freedom that is at stake. if we do not act, we will allow china to impose its model, which is actually a global counter-model.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, we can only understand people who are trying to preserve their freedom, in hong kong or elsewhere. who wouldn't? who doesn't feel a certain sympathy when they see students, priests, journalists standing up to maintain the very special spirit that reigns in hong kong? diplomacy is not, however, a matter of sympathy or sentiment. this is a matter of national interest. in 1997, the uk decided to return hong kong to china and to de facto relinquish sovereignty over the island. and everyone already knew the rest of the story... we can regret it. it is regrettable that the european nations have been and continue to be pressured to reduce their influence throughout the world. but i am also realistic: the european union has no influence in hong kong and our nations have no interest in adopting a bellicose rhetoric against china, as can already be seen in some of the remarks. let us open our eyes and seek our own way, the interests of europe, amidst the adversity between china and the united states. we must not allow ourselves to be dragged back into a new cold war.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! june 30 marks one year since the people's republic of china passed the controversial hong kong national security law. the european parliament already stated in a resolution that the new law violated the 'one country, two systems' principle, but also risked restricting civil rights and freedoms. our fears have been confirmed. a year after the controversial law was passed, hong kong has changed beyond recognition. national security issues have become a pretext to justify censorship, persecution and arrests of democratic opposition representatives and activists. the last bastion of free journalism just fell. the last pro-democracy, pro-independence newspaper, apple daily, has been forced to close, and its founder and employees are facing far more than the loss of a livelihood. the european union should stand firmly on the side of human rights and democracy in its relations with china. we must call on china to release all those arrested on charges under the national security act, to withdraw controversial laws, to respect the principle of 'one country, two systems' and to respect freedom of expression, including independent journalism and the right to protest. we should also introduce targeted sanctions against those responsible for human rights violations. it is also very important to involve european diplomatic staff in hong kong itself, for example by observing the proceedings and supporting activists.
mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, the city of hong kong, which once was the most free and admired economic centre in asia, attracting professionals and investments from the european union, is being turned into yet another authoritarian dominion of the chinese communist party. a year ago, we warned for good reason, the chinese government against the national security law, which violates the autonomy of hong kong. hong kongers are losing their long-enjoyed civil and political rights. they are deprived of freedom of speech and assembly, and with the closure of apple daily, they no longer have any independent and reliable media. the communist party’s control over free elections and independent judiciary is also growing. the european union must support pro-democracy activism in hong kong as we believe in human rights and democracy.
mr president, what could be more typical for a dictatorship than to accuse critics of working for foreign forces, even when the criticism comes from within, from their own civil society, from their own journalists? molière wrote: "whoever wants to drown his dog is accused of rage". this is the case in hong kong with the dramatic disappearance of the pro-democracy daily apple daily, accused of "conspiracy and collusion with foreign countries". one year of beijing-led national security law: news offices raided, journalists harassed and arrested, media assets confiscated. how can we not think of that replica so sibylline, but so lucid of wong kar-wai's masterpiece chungking express in 1994, "everything has an expiration date"? what prophecy? i would like to express our support and solidarity with the people of hong kong, but also with the people of xinjiang, tibet and inner mongolia. i want to remind the people of europe how precious and fragile our freedoms are, and that we must never let our guard down. we must defend human rights and press freedom, both outside the union and within it.
mr president, viktor orbán and carrie lam have two things in common: they don't know how to say no to beijing and they hate the free press. reporters without borders has recently named them among the world's most press-hardened leaders. it is no coincidence that the hungarian prime minister has come to the rescue of the hong kong leader and prevented the european union from opening its doors to hong kong democrats fleeing a repression that has become systematic. it's not a coincidence, but it's a shame. twenty-six european states were ready to throw a lifeline to the journalists and activists that the hong kong leadership wants to silence by welcoming them into the european union. but viktor orbán was watching and he said no. the democrats in hong kong, australia, canada and our neighbour the united kingdom will welcome them, but not us. it is time to change our rules and abandon the rule of unanimity in foreign policy. it is time to hold viktor orbán to account for his relentless fight against freedoms.
mr president, commissioner, once again china is not living up to any of its commitments, including the principle of 'one country, two systems'. once again, china remains ready to do anything to silence opposition, critics or even any freedom in hong kong. we, the european parliament, send a message of solidarity and unconditional support to the hong kong democrats. china will not silence us. freedom of the press is not negotiable. let us use our european human rights system to punish those responsible for this despicable repression; let's use our trade relations with china as leverage and be clear about the future. today, the investment agreement with china is frozen. tomorrow, if the chinese sanctions against our institution and our colleagues are lifted, we will have to be and we will be firm, and we will stand in the light of china's respect for human rights, not only in xinjiang, but also in hong kong. solidarity with hong kong, firmness with china, that is our policy.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, it is high time to act to replace animal experiments with more modern and reliable alternatives and to comply with the 3rs method which involves replacing animals where possible, reducing the number of animals used when experiments are unavoidable, and refining to reduce animal suffering during detention and at euthanasia, if it takes place. the replacement is crucial because technology is advancing rapidly in the field of in vitro experiments, computer modelling and microdosing, as well as genetic technologies such as crispr-cas9. these new technologies are much more efficient in moving research forward, but there are blockages, inertia. for example, universities too often use animal testing because they lack the financial resources to use these new technologies. as for laboratories, they themselves suffer from regulatory inertia. they still have to resort to animal testing to obtain valuable marketing authorizations. sometimes it boils down to fraud, because some of these experiments are run mechanically to keep the funding going. this is particularly the case with dogs that have been tested for several decades to find a treatment for myopathy, with the results we know. it is therefore important to legislate as soon as possible on alternatives to these experiments. the expectations of citizens, as well as technological progress, are now moving towards the end of this terrible animal abuse.
mr president, commissioner, when we talk about the use of animals for scientific purposes, i always have this image in my mind, that of a monkey tied by the wrists and staring at the camera held by the whistleblower. you can see the pain in his eyes. he seems to be asking, "why?" since these animals don't talk, i repeat it here: why? the 2010 directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes was an important step forward. it provided for the use of procedures not involving the use of live animals as soon as possible. why has the number of animals used hardly decreased? a comprehensive action plan with quantified objectives and dedicated resources is needed. we need to train young scientists in the use of alternative methods. we can give priority in the allocation of research funds to projects which use alternatives. we can support private actors who want to reduce the use of animals. alternatives often have much better results than animal testing. so we all have something to gain, human animals and non-human animals.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, whether it be the emergence of transnational business structures with bases throughout europe, legal uncertainty, different levels of social protection for workers, the proliferation of atypical forms of employment for crews or the loss of new jobs with the appearance of fake self-employed workers, the aviation sector has been affected in recent years by profound changes. the covid-19 crisis and its economic and social consequences will only exacerbate these with the risk that this situation will lead to further job losses and further deterioration of the general conditions and in particular of competition. more than ever, this situation deserves our full attention and priority. we call on the european commission and the member states to take action to promote socially responsible and sustainable air transport within the european union. this must be done by defending social rights, strengthening legal certainty, effectively applying existing rules and clarifying them where necessary. for this purpose too, it is essential that the social dimension be taken into account in the next revision of regulation no 1008/2008. we expect firm action. only in this way will we be able to ensure socially responsible connectivity in europe and ensure that the aviation sector emerges stronger and more resilient from this unprecedented crisis.
the european union has been engaged in a long fight against one of the worst pandemics in history since the beginning of 2020. the covid-19 crisis has exposed our public health vulnerability. in the face of this test of a real scale, our national health systems were overwhelmed and this impotence first of all pushed our governments towards health protection reflexes. here in this parliament we have called for the establishment of a coordinated european response mechanism, for the harmonisation of epidemiological data and we have supported the convergence of actions for the purchase of vaccines. the temptation to withdraw into oneself was soon replaced by european solidarity and coordination, which are now bearing fruit. we are undeniably stronger together, but there are still future health threats to be feared and the remarkable response we have improvised in the emergency must now pave the way for a europe of health that is united, coordinated, independent and sustainable. by publishing the package 'building a european health union', you wanted, dear stella, to bring coherence to our policy of anticipating, preparing for and managing health crises. in our draft report we would like to strengthen your proposal in four areas. number one: promote solidarity between people. health inequalities within the union must be tackled by enhancing cooperation between national systems. cooperation with third countries, especially the poorest, in the exchange of knowledge and good practice needs to be strengthened. international cooperation must be emphasised, including support for the development of an international treaty on pandemics. secondly, we must strengthen operational coordination. we must prepare the union for any future public health hazard by implementing the concepts of 'general health' and 'health in all policies'. of course, we will have to be prepared for new infectious problems new viruses, risk of antibiotic resistance , but we will also have to be able to respond to other threats, known or unknown environmental, food, biological, chemical, nuclear, etc. we need to support member states in collecting and sharing data, where they have frequently been caught in the dark during the crisis. we also measured the tragic impact of covid-19 on people with chronic illnesses. we need to extend ecdc surveillance to the impact of communicable diseases on noncommunicable diseases. the same ecdc must ensure that information is made available to european citizens and thus contribute to the fight against disinformation, as we have seen at the beginning of this session. point 3: ensure european independence in the field of health products. this requires greater involvement of the european medicines agency, the inclusion of health products in the resources listed for the national plans and more systematic use of group procurement procedures negotiated by one voice, including outside crises. and, of course, we look forward to your proposal for the establishment of the hera authority. fourth and last, we need to establish inclusive health governance. european citizens are calling for more transparency and participation in the decision-making process. i propose that parliament be given an observer role in the health and safety committee, which you have done well to strengthen, and that civil society representatives be given a significant role in the advisory committee. i also call for the involvement of regional authorities in the implementation of european and national plans, in order to encourage health cooperation experiments in crossborder regions and to establish genuine interregional planning. this will allow member states to mobilise funding in a proportionate way and share infrastructure and staff costs. the expectations of europeans are high. this legislative proposal, together with the revision of the mandates of the ema and the ecdc, are the first steps towards a true europe of health. with €5.1 billion for the period 2021-2027, the eu4health programme for health gives us the means to prioritise coherence and efficiency in our health policy. despite the title of this regulation on serious crossborder threats to health, which i find hard to read, our negotiating team, which is 100% female - and i welcome its representatives here - with a very friendly thought for my friend joanna - will defend this programme for what it really is: a genuine european plan for responding to health crises.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we've learned from the corona crisis. the pandemic exposed and highlighted both the strengths and weaknesses of the european community. when the corona hit europe, we were too slow to react. we were too ill prepared and had too few safeguards, and a large part of our health production was exported to countries outside the eu. it made things worse. never before in the history of the eu has our cooperation faced such a challenge. but in the last year and a half, we've gained new insights into what we can do together. both what we can do in the community and what responsibility the member states have for the community. we cannot politically determine how or whether the next pandemic will strike us, but we can politically make sure that we are better equipped. it's needed. the initiatives we are voting on this week are improving our european health cooperation, and that is necessary and good. we are strengthening the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). this means that we can detect health crises more quickly and better respond to them in a timely manner. we are improving coordination between the eu member states. we're connected, and it makes sense that we coordinate the procurement of protective equipment, vaccines and that sort of thing together. together we can ensure better supply all along the production chain, and i think that is absolutely essential, necessary and a good lesson. this week we are voting to better equip the eu for new health crises, and i am voting for that.
president, commissioner, colleagues, covid-19 has been with us for a year and a half now. the pandemic has exposed a number of pain points, in particular that the eu was absolutely not prepared for a crisis of this magnitude, and indeed most member states were not prepared either. we are paying a high price for this with a lot of human suffering and heavy socioeconomic costs. there is a clear need for better cooperation and coordination across borders, while respecting the competences of the member states and the länder. what we need is a simple mesh that is efficient, transparent and high-performance. we must avoid falling into what we in flanders call 'koterij', where structures are created and added to over and over again to create a totally confusing whole. in this context, we certainly support the strengthening of existing structures such as the european medicines agency and the centre for disease prevention and control. we owe it to ourselves to strengthen and improve these institutions. this is certainly preferable to the mordicus of creating new institutions. i look forward with concern to the proposals on hera which the commission will publish tomorrow. the commission is taking the lead in the usa, but as you know, the differences between the european union and the usa are still - fortunately - very large in certain respects. i hope that the commission will remain true to the motto 'unity in diversity', focus on perfecting what we have and thus indeed leave behind the cottage industry.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, future pandemics will occur more often, spread more quickly, cause more damage to the global economy and kill more people than covid-19 if nothing is done. these alarming words are those of scientific experts and are without appeal. europe must prepare for the risk of new pandemics and it is doing so: this week, and pending the strengthening of the powers of the european medicines agency, we will adopt parliament's positions on the regulations to strengthen the role of the european agency for disease prevention and control and to amend european legislation on cross-border health threats. as an elected representative of a border area, i would particularly like to welcome certain measures: the necessary strengthening of cooperation and coordination between member states, including the sharing of data and the building up of stocks of essential medicines, the guarantee of free movement of border workers and essential goods in the event of reintroduction of internal border controls, the prohibition on any member state restricting its exports of medicines and medical equipment without prior authorisation from the commission. in the future, we will no longer see member states prohibiting exports of medicines and medical equipment, or preventing frontier workers from going to work. these are real breakthroughs. i repeat, we can only be strong if we strengthen cooperation and coordination between member states. this is where the european health union comes into its own and becomes a daily reality as the indispensable stepping stone towards a renewed health sovereignty.
thank you, sir. the praise is a good bridge to the concluding remarks of commissioner stella kyriakis.
member of the commission. – thank you, president, but i think the praise should be extended to almost everyone in this european parliament for the work that we have been doing together for the last 18 months. i began by underlining the need for bold action, and i very much welcome hearing all your interventions today. it’s clear that you share our level of ambition and the need for quick and decisive action. the health union will have to ensure, as many of you have said, that we need a strong common response, but recognising specific needs and contexts. when protecting our citizens, we need to be one step ahead; we cannot be running behind and trying to catch up. the progress made so far in parliament on these proposals is definitely taking us in the right direction, but we need to move faster towards adoption. the number of citizens that we have lost to this virus in the past year is a wake-up call to us all. the council has already made considerable progress and adopted its general approach on 23 july. now we start the interinstitutional negotiations, and let me assure you that the commission will play its part in reaching quick and meaningful agreement. i heard some colleagues speak about the need to have more work done on therapeutics. we have been working on an eu therapeutic strategy for the last few months, and i am in a position to tell you that we have launched this strategy and are expecting the european medicines agency’s assessment of three new therapeutics in october. so we are leaving no stone unturned. but on the other hand, i have also heard many raise the subject of national competences – a taboo subject in the area of health. what we seem to forget is that the world after covid-19 is fundamentally different. we cannot treat public health matters as we did before. we need a strong eu legal framework. we need to be able to act at eu level while respecting member states’ competences. a strong european health union is not about, as i have heard, using the covid-19 crisis to grab power. it is about using this crisis to turn it into positive action. it is using this crisis to bring about positive change for eu citizens, all within the treaty framework. so let’s all work together. let’s press ahead with these ambitious and much-needed proposals so we can adopt them at the end of this year. this is what this european union needs. this is what our citizens expect from us and we should not deliver anything less.
the joint debate is closed. the votes on the amendments will take place tomorrow, tuesday, 14 september 2021, with the final vote on wednesday, 15 september 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the pandemic and new data have shown that we must abandon the eu policy of today, where health issues are not an eu competence. the european commissioner stella kyriakides and the president of the european commission rightly stressed the need for a european health union in her speech to the european parliament. i think the big bet, with the pandemic, where we implemented common policies to deal with the big health crisis, has worked. i also believe that the citizens of the eu support a single eu health policy. the eu must therefore move quickly to achieve this ambitious and important objective, which will only bring positive benefits for health, for european citizens and for the eu itself.
in writing. the eu has made great strides in promoting and protecting the union's common health. this is a positive development, because there are many things for which the national social security reform is not enough. we must make use of all the expertise that our union of 27 has to offer. it is important to work together to prevent and manage crises such as potential coronavirus pandemics, but beyond crisis situations, we also need more cooperation in normal times. strengthening the mandate of the european centre for diseases control (ecdc) is essential for a coherent and coordinated european epidemiological surveillance, control and preparedness. we cannot allow the confusion of the covid-19 disaster to repeat itself. i have long called for a stronger eu on health. the commission's health union proposal would see all member states working together to prepare for and respond to health crises, with affordable and innovative medical devices available to all, and countries working together to improve the prevention, treatment and follow-up of cancer and other diseases. this is a step in the right direction. we need normal working hours, investment in basic disease management, investment in health care and training of staff. the work against major public health problems such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes is becoming more important as the population ages. for example, in the case of rare diseases, reference centres bring together the best expertise in the field and must be adequately resourced. the same model of competence centre should be extended to other common diseases.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs brunet, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on fair working conditions, rights and social protection for workers employed on online platforms and new forms of employment in the context of digital developments (a9-0257/2021).
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner mr nicolas, you have come at the right time ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank my colleagues, particularly the fictitious rapporteurs from the various political groups, but also my colleagues in the committee on transport, who, like myself, have been working on this dossier in recent months in order to be able to define a common and ambitious position of the european parliament on this major subject. the social summit in porto was an opportunity to identify the immediate priorities for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, which include those of workers on the platforms. i would also like to mention the second phase of the consultations with the social partners, which will end on wednesday. i'm sure she'll be full of lessons. in this context, i am pleased that the majority of the political groups have so far agreed on the need for european action and on the specific needs of platform workers. i'm going to take a few moments to clarify the priorities of my report. first, improved access to social protection. i would like to see platform workers, whatever their status, benefiting from a minimum level of social protection. this means, in particular, that all workers on the platforms should be entitled to compensation in the event of an accident at work or an occupational disease and to social protection including sickness and disability insurance cover. we also call for the extension of social protection rights to workers in the self-employed platforms, including those who are switching status or who have both, in order to ensure the portability of rights and benefits. we already have a european instrument to this end: the council recommendation on access to social protection for employed and selfemployed workers. i would like to stress the importance of this for the member states, who must implement it without delay. secondly, improved, fair and transparent working conditions. digital work platforms should ensure the communication of essential information on working conditions and cooperation rules, the method of calculating the price and the allocation of tasks. they should also ensure transparency in the event of changes to the rules and consultations. it is also important that workers can have a right of appeal in the event of account suspension. working for multiple platforms should also be a right for them, as should access to their data. the third major element is collective representation. collective bargaining is a key element in improving the working conditions of these workers. workers on the platforms, even the selfemployed, must be able to organise and negotiate collectively. calls on the european commission to clarify that collective agreements are not covered by the prohibition of competition law, in order to ensure that these platform workers can join a union, be represented and participate in collective bargaining. fourthly, greater legal certainty for workers on and off the platforms. that's been a big point of debate for us. our aim should be to move towards greater legal certainty for workers on the platforms. this will also be beneficial for platforms that can develop with more clarity, but also for the so-called traditional economy, by ensuring a level playing field. a rebuttable presumption of a supervised employment relationship should apply to workers who challenge their status in a procedure. however, it should not lead to automatically considering all platform workers as employees. the truly selfemployed will remain so. equally important, we propose a reversal of the burden of proof so that when a platform worker disputes his professional status, it is up to the party alleged to be the employer to prove that there is no employment relationship. finally, let us be clear: we do not want a third status for workers on the platforms. fifth element: a safe and healthy workplace. platform workers on site must be equipped with adequate personal protective equipment and be covered by accident insurance when working in the transport and delivery sectors. they must also be able to log off from the platform without suffering negative consequences. we want to protect platform workers and customers from the risks of violence and harassment by putting in place effective reporting mechanisms on platforms. sixth element: the development of skills - also very important. training should be provided to workers by the digital workplace platform itself on the use of its website or app, tasks to be performed and occupational health and safety. platform workers, especially the least skilled, should have access to training to develop skills and improve their employability. and finally, seventh, and not least, algorithmic management that is transparent, non-discriminatory and ethical. algorithmic management has revolutionized the world of work. clearly, we want to ensure that algorithms are used in a transparent, non-discriminatory, ethical and reliable way. to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure that the main information on working conditions is explained in an intelligible way. these are algorithm parameters that affect the allocation of tasks, ratings and interactions, the deactivation procedure and pricing. and furthermore, it may seem obvious, but algorithmic management needs to be controlled by humans so that workers can challenge a decision through effective procedures. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the objectives of this report have been achieved: to clarify rights, to increase protection where it is lacking, to find a balance between the advantages and disadvantages of platform work. i welcome once again the announcement of the european commission's legislative initiative to improve working conditions for platform workers, scheduled for 8 december. this will be an additional building block for the construction of social europe. we can say that the european parliament is contributing to this voluntarily with this report, and we hope that the commission will take note of this when it finalizes its proposal. commissioner, let us work together to adapt the european framework to the new realities of the world of work by ensuring that european values are embedded in the digital economy and that the opportunities offered by new forms of work remain sustainable and fair. yes to 'digital', but not at the expense of the working conditions of platform workers in europe.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, when i hear you, when i hear this catalogue of wishful thinking: clarifying workers' rights on the platforms, finding points of balance, guaranteeing social protection, managing algorithms, you make me think of the famous quote by jean cocteau: 'these mysteries are beyond us, let us pretend to be the organisers of them'. but the scandal of the condition of the workers of the platforms is not only a matter of labour law. it is first and foremost a choice of civilization. in the age of technological progress, the platforms that the digital age has enabled are disrupting institutions, deconstructing conventions and disintegrating social advances. under the guise of freedom and self-employment, their promoters dare to boast of a new slavery that does not say its name. only the nation state can stop these big feudalists. the nation state alone will allow a people to decide how the economy and technological progress should serve our vital forces and not the other way around. the nation state alone will allow the real exercise of democracy and popular sovereignty in the face of the multinationals who intend to impose their deadly choices on us. the nation state alone will make it possible to look to the future and not to return to the exploitation models of another time. the nation state is freedom and it is this freedom that we fight for and we must fight for. this is a fight that the european union has probably abandoned. it may even be a fight that the european union has simply refused to fight.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, commissioner, we must put an end to a fraudulent situation where platforms present themselves as mere intermediaries between a self-employed person and a customer, when in reality they decide on rates, they decide on penalties and they decide on working methods, all without assuming their obligations as employers. in this report parliament makes a proposal to remedy this. we need a presumption of salaried employment for workers on digital platforms. a presumption of employment linked to a reversal of the burden of proof. and the definition of the word presumption is unambiguous. from the latin praesumere, to take in advance, the presumption of salaried means that workers are considered as employees of digital platforms from the first day of the employment relationship, without the need to go to court to assert their rights. this does not, of course, mean that all workers on the platforms must be employees. there are cases where platforms are really intermediaries, i am thinking for example of the doctolib platform. in this case, it is up to the platform to provide evidence that it does not have any subordination relationship with the workers and they then retain their status as self-employed. we are asking you to act, commissioner, not to force the selfemployed to work for themselves. if we are pressing you, it is first of all to remedy the extreme poverty of vtc drivers and food delivery drivers on two wheels. but it is also, and above all, for the whole world of work: if today we allow uber to have workers under its command without assuming its responsibility as an employer, tomorrow it is all employees whose status will be threatened by replacement by a fake self-employed.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak to the house on the subject of the protection of workers in the transport sector. the amsterdam court ruled that uber must employ its drivers as employees. now we have to continue to regulate all the platforms like uber, temper and deliveroo, because they're all rolling out the same revenue model all at once across europe, and so we have to provide a european response. it is clear to us that platform workers have a right to a fair wage, to social protection and to a pension. we can achieve this by reversing the burden of proof. it is no longer the platform workers who should be sued, but the platform. platform workers will automatically be ordinary employees and will no longer have to claim their rights individually. this way, it's clear to everyone that they're being well protected. that's how we're gonna get the platform economy back on track. i am counting on a strong proposal from the commissioner. we shall continue this debate at the beginning of december, but first we shall vote on wednesday and with great pleasure we shall move in the right direction.
madam president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, colleagues, on 6 may 2021, chahi, a delivery man, delivers a meal near rouen by bicycle in the rain. he works for uber eats. chahi, under pressure, is knocked over. would this family man have lost his life if the platform had taken on its responsibilities as an employer? what if the platform had ensured the safety of the bike and its equipment? what if it had allowed him to work, not at a discount, not at a rush, but with a guaranteed salary? we, as legislators, have a responsibility to chahi and the 24 million people who work for digital platforms like this: to make the labor law, rights won through hard struggle, effective for them and for them. i welcome the fact that this parliament is about to call on the european commission to introduce a presumption of an employment relationship and to reverse the burden of proof before the courts. when we see that workers are at the mercy of algorithms that put them in competition with other workers, when we see that they are subject to increasing time pressures and prices dictated always downwards, we need to force the platforms to take responsibility. it's not the workers' job to prove the salarial, it's the platform's job to defend it. yes to digital for social progress. no to the management of work by algorithms without human supervision and to the exploitation of the most vulnerable. yes, to genuinely independent work, not to disguised employees and the 'disproportionalisation' of employers. many people behind this report hope that europe will finally put a stop to the irresponsible liberalization of their work. for them and for victims like chahi, let's live up to it.
madam president, in the european union too many workers are living in poverty and they suffer because of social exclusion. work, platform work included, must become the tool again for all to combat poverty. today this is not yet the case. the growing digital economy has great potential for job creation, but these jobs must be quality jobs instead of precarious jobs. new forms of work must become a synonym of equal rights and better work—life balance. we socialists and democrats, together with the trade unions and civil society, will never accept that platform workers are a sub—category or a new category of workers. to prevent social dumping, platform workers deserve social rights, health and safety protection, fair working conditions and the right to collective bargaining – and therefore we need ambitious eu legislation. here we have the opportunity to make social progress for the next generation by empowering platform workers. our aim is a more resilient and a more social union where vulnerable categories of workers have no place.
madam president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sylvie brunet, for her work. the european parliament, together with it, with all of you, ladies and gentlemen, is sending a clear message: workers on the platforms must not be left out of the labour law. whether they are self-employed or employed, it is time to live up to the european social model and guarantee all these workers decent working conditions, fair and equitable pay and access to social protection. almost three years ago, the member states adopted a recommendation to the council to guarantee all workers, whether employed or not, access to social protection. unfortunately, despite the commitments made, this recommendation has not been implemented. what do we find? the precariousness of many workers on the platforms. as you said, commissioner, we must act to change this situation. but let's not cast a pall over the platforms that can allow europeans who might otherwise be away to enter the labour market. it is up to us, the legislators, to frame this new form of work so that working for uber or deliveroo is synonymous with access to social rights, social protection and decent pay. the future directive will not only have to offer a set of rights, such as sick leave, but also to think of platform work as a possible stepping stone to other jobs. this means that workers must have a training account which will enable them to acquire new skills and to move towards new jobs. we have said and repeated that the transition to a digital world must not leave anyone on the sidelines. it's up to us to prove it. decent working conditions, labour law, trade union rights, access to social protection, access to training - these are all rights which we must guarantee to everyone, whatever the contractual link between these women and men and their employer. let us live up to our promises and show our fellow citizens that we are fighting for our social model, for a social model which is not reserved for a section of european workers. all must be protected. this is a social imperative. and what would we have done without these frontline workers during the covid crisis? so, commissioner, i know you are on our side, let us honour our values and our commitment to social progress. the ball is now in your court. the report by sylvie brunet is an excellent basis for this, let us use it.
madam president, commissioner, mr nicolas schmit, i would first of all like to join in the congratulations that have been given and to pay tribute to the excellent work of our rapporteur and friend, sylvie brunet. the text we are about to vote on is important to millions of workers on the platforms, many of whom are young people. it proposes a way forward to ensure that the flexibility of work inherent in platforms also comes with safety. it encourages people to keep up with changes in the workplace without sacrificing social progress. among the measures proposed, i would like to welcome the emphasis on health at work. platform workers may be exposed to increased risks. it is not just accidents, but also their health. while the entire world was locked down by the pandemic, they mostly kept working, exposed on the front lines. mental health can be affected by the unpredictability and intensity of their working conditions, but also by the increased competition between them. the basic rules on health and safety at work, which are a concrete example of the social europe we want to build, must therefore apply to all european workers. adequate social protection guaranteeing insurance in the event of an accident and sickness and invalidity cover must be guaranteed. some platforms already do this and generalization is possible. we now need a legislative framework, because there can be no second-class workers, especially when it comes to health.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president, madam commissioner, dear elisa ferreira, dear colleagues, just yesterday at this time i was at home on the island of réunion in the indian ocean with the french minister for europe. we have launched the regional conference on the future of europe. we met many citizens and they asked us a question. it sounds like geometry, but it is a fundamental political question: how can we be both on the periphery and in the heart of europe? at this very moment, 5 million europeans live in the indian ocean, the caribbean and the atlantic. they are waiting for our response to their hopes and their emergencies. our response is the report i am defending before you today. i call for a new european strategy for the outermost regions. these are nine french, spanish and portuguese territories: réunion, mayotte, french guiana, guadeloupe, saint martin, martinique, madeira, the azores and the canary islands. i want to mention all of them, because i want to stress here that each of these regions is an opportunity for europe. they are at the forefront of europe's major challenges: climate, cohesion, health and, of course, the environment, since the ors contain 80% of europe's biodiversity. this report is a call to action, to urgent action to build together a new model of development for the overseas countries and for the outermost regions. i would also like to thank all my colleagues and their teams. we have co-constructed this strategy in three axes: protect, develop, value. this new strategy must be greener, of course, more blue, more just too. there is still so much to catch up with: poverty, unemployment, precariousness, which make our young people say that their horizons are broken. we urgently need a new, strong and effective european commitment. so how can we be effective? first of all, it is necessary to respect article 349 of the feu treaty and to establish a genuine upr reflex in all the european institutions. i will tell you, to forget us is to forget that we are part of the european solutions. to forget ourselves is to forget our commitment to leave no one behind. this rup reflex is to demonstrate collective intelligence in the face of common challenges. in addition to the climate emergency, which requires reconciliation between man and nature, there are also social and economic emergencies. faced with these fragility, europe is acting with its cohesion policy, its support for farmers, fishermen and herders, and its erasmus mobility programmes. our new rup strategy calls for consolidating the gains made, respecting the specificities and, above all, opening up new perspectives for our young people. it means creating campuses of excellence, developing digital to find jobs. it also means making our outer regions the driving forces behind innovation, the energy transition and research. so yes, i say it again here, europe is an opportunity for the ru. but each of our overseas territories is an opportunity for europe. it takes courage and determination. that's the ambition i have here in this new strategy to change your look, to change our look. because the ors are territories of solutions, territories with geostrategic strengths, with our strengths and weaknesses, with our fragility and strengths, with our demands and hopes. we are, in a way, a mirror of your relationship with the most remote, the most vulnerable, the most resilient as well. so, i'm telling you, in the face of climate and social challenges, maybe we are also your future. so, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the ball is in your court and everywhere, we know we can count on you.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, deadly floods, apocalyptic fires, record heat: climate disasters were the scenario for films such as 'the day after tomorrow'. but this summer, fiction became reality in europe. we are no longer passive spectators in a disaster movie, but we are living it. the climate change is already here. it's irreversible. he is brutal. and in case this life-size alert isn't enough for you, the ipcc report closes the discussion. we must change everything now, radically, if we are to avoid chaos. the countdown is on, but you're still doing the ostrich. it's already starting badly with your goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55 percent by 2030, when it would take at least 65 percent to meet the paris agreement. might as well put out the fire with a garden hose. on the method, then, you have surpassed yourself. what's your magic bullet? let the deal go down. i've had it! no one thought of that. but we have seen the triumph of the carbon market, which companies have used as a license to pollute. as a result, industrial emissions have fallen by only 1% in ten years. but will you take it up a bit more by extending it to transport and buildings? and while we're at it, let's not even talk about productivist agriculture and climate-killing free trade agreements. no surprise, anyway, who's gonna pay the bill? ah, no, not the crazy finance or the poor multinationals that are the heart of the problem. but no, what you're proposing is the working classes, of course, will see their bill skyrocket. more than €370 a year in gasoline and €420 in heating for these households who are already the first victims of climate chaos. the yellow vest alert in france? obviously, you've never heard of it. so, mr timmermans, you say to us: 'we must act now'. but you remain a desperate prisoner of your neoliberal software. and since you say you are open to alternatives, we will continue to propose the only serious path: a social and ecological green new deal that breaks with this predatory economic system that destroys everything.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this veritable legislative tsunami is a product of bureaucratic ecology. what is at stake in this coup d'état is the overthrow of european legislation, the decline in the competitiveness of our industry, the increase in taxes and the energy bill and the strengthening of power in the hands of the commission. and all of this is taking shape in the wake of the increasingly catastrophic announcements by the ipcc, whose stated purpose is to frighten policymakers and citizens. it is hard to imagine that all the expected socioeconomic upheavals have been taken into account, or even calculated, when the commission proposes, for example, an emissions trading scheme for road transport and building heating. the yellow vest revolt in france and the rejection of the climate law in switzerland should have served as examples. as for making the carbon border adjustment mechanism a clean resource, this is to divert the only right measure in this package, as long as the european union does not lie down in the meantime before the wto.
mr president, this is the moment of truth. we have a climate package in front of us today that we should have had ten years ago. you can count on the greens to make it a success together. the ingredients are already there: we have a climate bill, a big pot of money to invest and this package of climate legislation. this is certainly the commission's achievement, but above all the achievement of the hundreds of thousands of young people who have taken to the streets to do so. i think we need those young people again, commissioner timmermans. we are not going to wait until 2032 to introduce a full tax on kerosene and until 2035 to phase out cars running on fossil fuels. do we want to let multinational corporations pollute the climate for free until 2035? the social weak must not be presented with the bill while companies, large multinationals, can continue to pollute for free. not with us, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the european union is a leader in climate policy. the proposal that has been put forward, the fit for 55 package, is unfortunately a proposal that requires very profound changes, because it does not take sufficient account of the different energy mix of the member states, and we know, in this house, that the just transition proposed earlier by the commission is unfortunately a just transition in name only. that's why we need to modify this package in such a way that it doesn't lose social support. that is why we must do everything we can to ensure that the regulations we propose are understandable to the citizens and acceptable to the citizens. can you imagine going back to your countries and telling small farmers that they can't afford methane capture plants? what about construction, energy? so we have a lot of hard work ahead of us, and let's get down to it...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. since the recent report of the world climate council, we know how much greenhouse gas the world has left. we all know what our greenhouse gas budgets are, and we all know that we need new commitments to achieve climate neutrality. we are all responsible for our actions in this house - to ourselves and to the electorate. we can propose - like the afd - to do nothing. we can pretend to do something by saying we need innovation and market mechanisms, as the union and the fdp do. or we can finally start to make clear rules. we were chosen to do this. we are responsible for that. and for the social-ecological transformation to succeed, we need, first of all, a lot more renewable electricity. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future. it is good for the climate, it is better for the citizens. and that is our responsibility, especially to young europeans. the european union must be climate neutral. we're going with you and them!
mr president, mr vice-president, more than an evolution, not yet a revolution, fit for 55 is a package of unprecedented measures, unprecedented, to make europe the first continent to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. i mention, but only in bulk, the reform of the carbon market, the phasing out of free licences for emitter industries, the establishment of a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders to combat climate dumping, the new target of 40% renewable energy by 2030 and the end of tax exemptions for aviation and maritime fuels. so yes, europe is doing a lot to combat climate change and yes, it clearly needs to do even more in response to these increasingly extreme weather events and the alarm cries of the ipcc experts. we have this ambition in mind, and we also remember the 216 victims of the deadly floods in belgium and germany this summer. an ambition to inspire hope. because, yes, mr vice-president, we have no choice.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, it has already been said by my colleagues: this climate package is a step in the right direction, but it is tragically short of ambition. besides, this is a blueprint from last may. the latest ipcc report warns of a "devastating future" if the policy of "small steps" or "at the same time" is continued. not to mention the world bank report yesterday, which predicts 200 million climate refugees by 2050. on the deployment of renewable energy, investment in 100% green hydrogen, the end of subsidies for fossil fuels, the end of free pollution quotas, a truly environmentally friendly agricultural policy, on everything and everywhere, we must go much faster and much stronger than what is proposed to us. climate inaction is threatening to pulverize our future. that is why i brought a complaint against the french state three years ago, when i was mayor, joined by the case of the century and its two million fellow citizens. the city i was managing was in danger of being submerged by the sea and the french courts proved me right: on 1 july, the council of state ordered france to take action within nine months to reduce its emissions, or face sanctions. so, will europe wait until it is forced by justice to act out of lack of courage and ambition? or will we rise to the challenge and be proud of having made the right decisions by listening humbly to europeans and experts? (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the us's disastrous departure from afghanistan by joe biden, when the taliban took power, marks the end of a messianic policy initiated by george bush twenty years ago, which has put the whole west in a difficult position. the first lesson to be drawn is that of the end of the interventionist universalism which, for twenty years, has accumulated disasters, from syria to iraq to libya. interference in the name of human rights and nation-building has led to chaos without a trace. these regions of the middle east are permanently destabilized. the second observation is the complete absence of any european voice in this conflict. the fact that the member states have been involved in a war which was not theirs is now costing them the silence on afghanistan. once again, it is russia and china that will take advantage of this lack of western coherence to advance their interests in the concert of nations. finally, and this is probably the most important issue on which we can still act, the member states of the european union must now protect themselves and their populations. the suffocated peoples of europe must not suffer another wave of migration like the one that followed the conflict in syria. like you, i'm concerned about the plight of women and civilians in afghanistan. like everyone else, i deplore the return of the islamists to power and, because i care first and foremost for the good of europeans and french people, i once again reject a wave of migration from afghanistan. european countries, and france in particular, would be exposed by accepting new refugees. no people in europe wants more migrants, especially when terrorists are sneaking into their midst. this is already the case in france, less than a week after the first arrivals. europe, in the light of the lessons of the past, has a duty to protect itself.
madam president, defeat, rout, defeat; for once, faced with a crisis - the american withdrawal from afghanistan and the victory of the taliban - there is no shortage of words. but as always in the face of a crisis, it's always the same emotions. first the shock, then the anger, then comes the denial. denial is refusing to see that nato has failed in its most ambitious mission. it is refusing to listen to the united states, which for three presidents has told us that it is tired of being the policeman of the world. and it is a refusal to recognise that we must build a real european defence without delay. we were not involved in the decision to withdraw the united states and in its implementation. we were unable to independently set up an airlift for the evacuation of our nationals and the most threatened afghans. we have not been able to impose a humanitarian safe zone in kabul. what else do we need to react and act? if it is true that europe moves forward through crises, then let us bet that european defence today has every reason to move forward.
madam president, the trial of the paris attacks of 13 november 2015, which took the lives of 130 of our compatriots, injured 400 other french people and plunged hundreds of families into impossible mourning, has begun in france. we now know that many of the terrorists were able to spread terror by hiding in the wave of migration that overwhelmed europe and that our leaders encouraged. this mindless and murderous policy must be buried forever. the first afghans evacuated from kabul had barely arrived on french soil when five of them were placed under surveillance for terrorist risk by french intelligence services. kabul is also the scene of a reactivation of the jihadists of the islamic state. we don't know anything about all the people we've evacuated and we're moving into our homes by the hundreds, even thousands. after all we've been through in our country, no risks should be taken. the effort to welcome refugees must be directed entirely to neighbouring countries by setting up secure humanitarian camps in neighbouring countries, with which there is much less cultural shock. the laws of hospitality have been flouted, saturated, used by our enemies. it's time to say we're putting our full weight behind the safety of our own.
madam president, mr high representative, 'back to normal in afghanistan' is in the papers. the un would be disappointed by the lack of women in the taliban government... i think i'm dreaming. are we that naive? for students who are not allowed to learn together, is this a return to normal? for girls who are forced into marriage and raped, is this a return to normal? for the murdered artists, is this a return to normalcy? for all these people and many others, there is no return to normalcy on the horizon. so nothing and no one will stop them from running away to save their family from a no-future. we must encourage the member states to adopt a coordinated european approach. the european union must do everything possible to evacuate those we have abandoned and issue them humanitarian visas. also, release funds to help them settle, implement the temporary protection in europe directive and ensure fair sharing of responsibilities between member states. let us honour our european values.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, humanitarian aid is neither a tool for managing migration nor a political lever against the taliban. we must be careful not to make a mistake in this house. before we talk about the possible influx of afghan refugees to europe, let us talk about those who are stranded there, in afghanistan, in catastrophic and inhumane conditions. let's talk about these afghan women, who have the courage to stand up to the taliban to protect their rights and their access to health, education and work. today i would like to draw your attention to women humanitarian workers, who play a vital role in bringing aid to afghan women and girls. it is our urgent duty to protect them so that they can continue their work freely and without fear of reprisals. mr high representative, our humanitarian aid must be continuous and, above all, remain unconditional.
in writing. since the violent seizure of power by the taliban last month, we have all witnessed a huge humanitarian crisis in afghanistan. hundreds of thousands of afghan citizens are fleeing the country in fear for their safety, taking refuge in neighboring countries. europe cannot stand idly by in the face of the shocking images from kabul airport, where mothers tried to push their children through the barbed wire, begging the soldiers to take them away from the country. the need for humanitarian aid is urgent, but the rapid developments in afghanistan also demonstrate that we are facing a new wave of mass migration with unforeseen social and humanitarian consequences. the european union must learn from the mistakes of the past and seize the opportunity in the face of these new challenges to agree as soon as possible on a new, fairer, common asylum system based on the mandatory solidarity between all member states. my country, greece, cannot bear the burden of an uncontrolled refugee crisis again, as in 2015. at the same time, we must make it clear to president erdoğan that we will not allow him, under any circumstances, to use desperate people as leverage to pressure europe.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of lebanon, i would like to speak french, because lebanon is a country with a strong french tradition, but i will return to english. thank you for including lebanon on this agenda. it is particularly important at this time. one year ago, the devastating explosion in beirut highlighted the acute economic, financial, social and political crisis that was engulfing lebanon, and still is engulfing lebanon. we provided substantial assistance to address immediate needs and support recovery, but at the same time, we have been calling on the lebanese authorities - i myself traveled to lebanon in order to call on them face to face - for the results of the investigation into the causes of this explosion and most importantly, to encourage the lebanese political leaders to put their differences aside and form a government, urgently, with a strong mandate to attend to the victims and address the country's needs before a financial explosion occurs. during my visit to lebanon last june i was very clear with all my interlocutors that we will keep doing our best to help those in need in lebanon, but that this was a self-inflicted crisis and they had to take responsibility immediately even threatening them with the possibility of sanctions if they were unable or unwilling to face the situation in their country. i insisted that they agree on a government, that they implement urgent reforms and reach an agreement with the international monetary fund; without it, it was not possible to continue providing financial assistance. i also insisted on preparations for the 2022 elections - parliamentary, presidential and municipal - and to ensure that they were free, transparent, fair and of course, according to the schedules. lebanon has changed. president macron has said that, many times. the lebanese model is broken. now that more than half the population lives in poverty it can't be a surprise that migration is on the rise. fuel and power shortages are so severe now that in some places in lebanon, there is no more than one hour of electricity per day. one hour of electricity per day in lebanon! no bread, no water, no hospitals. it was a nightmare. empty shelves in the pharmacies and in the stores. we have been discussing lebanon in every meeting of the foreign affairs council since march, and now i am happy that the announcement last friday that president aoun and prime minister mikati have signed a decree to form a new government is good news, an indispensable step in the right direction. we are encouraging prime minister mikati to resume negotiations with the imf the only way to avoid a financial collapse, which it is on the edge of. we're standing ready to continue assisting further if the new government gets critical measures and reforms underway. so it's good news that we have a government, but we should have had it one year before, six months before. i hope that its not too late. i hope this government will be able to face the crises in the country. i hope that this new government will confirm this endeavour and certainly i wish every success to prime minister mikati. but this is also a good moment for parliament to express, to address to the new lebanese authorities, our commitment to support, but also our requirement for them to act. because lebanon's problems can only be solved by the lebanese people and by the lebanese government and by the lebanese political classes, which for too long, too much time, have not been fulfilling their commitments to their people. thank you for the debate that's going to come. i'm sure it will help us address the situation in lebanon.
the crisis in lebanon is a deep-rooted, dangerous crisis with serious consequences for society and risks for the stability of the region. lebanon is a key partner in our southern neighbourhood and deserves more attention and concrete action from the eu. our commitment must be felt as humanitarian aid to the suffering population. our help to ensure the stability, security and sovereignty of the country must be concrete. only in this way can we contribute to the restoration of democracy, the rule of law and political governance and thereby help the people. the formation of a new government is a first meaningful step. we must now ensure that the parliamentary elections in may 2022 actually take place and are conducted properly. we've learned a lot from our experiences in afghanistan. one of them is that an evacuation of people should not be an evacuation of responsibilities. this is not just true for afghanistan, but also for other regions where we can make a big difference if we really want to be a global player. our southern neighbourhood policy aims to bring about reforms that will bring greater stability and prosperity to the country and the region. it is therefore crucial that the country be freed as much as possible from foreign influences that threaten the fragile stability and peace of the entire region.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i am still here. i'll keep challenging you. i will fight my case to the end. i'm not afraid of you. they didn't win. this was the statement by lebanese journalist may chidiac at the launch of her book, heaven will wait for me, two years after a car bombing nearly claimed her life in 2005 for criticizing the syrian regime on her tv shows. she lost an arm and a leg. and 15 years later, what about him? lebanon is on the brink of collapse. his people face a chain of shortages of electricity, gasoline, grain. the corruption of his political class is not even concealed anymore. i have never seen a people as resilient as the lebanese, but the commitment of the lebanese is breaking down in the face of suffering, poverty and hunger. i welcome the formation of the new lebanese government and, in the presence of my colleagues, i wish to call on its representatives to listen and respect their people. i also welcome the resolution we are preparing together to improve the living conditions of the lebanese people, to put an end to corruption and foreign interference, to revive the country or to help it find a lasting solution for the million refugees present on its territory. i am sure that europe will be able to convey the right message to the lebanese authorities with the indispensable support of all national and european bodies.
for the greens/efa group madam president, lebanon, which was called the switzerland of the middle east yesterday, continues its descent into hell. this summer, a sanctions regime was put in place by the council to target lebanese officials who have looted the country. it is a first step, but it is not enough. it is good to have a sanctions framework. it's much better to put it into practice. two weeks ago, a representative of the eeas told us in the afet parliamentary committee that the discussion on the names of the persons to be sanctioned had not even taken place yet. but when will a decision be made on this list of names? when will those responsible for the beirut explosion in august 2020 be punished? what about those leaders who have lost the people's minds, those elites who have enriched themselves at the expense of the country and those who have the ill-gotten gains, those fortunes through corruption, trickery and self-enrichment? all this stolen money, which is largely dormant in europe, when will it be frozen and returned to the lebanese people? mr borrell, the lebanese people are constantly asking us: when will the european union finally use this sanctions regime? i'm tired of having to answer them that we don't know, that we have to wait. i'm ashamed of how slow we have been to react, to coordinate. i am thinking especially of the 80% of lebanese men and women who have nothing to eat, no electricity, no clean water and who only ask for justice and the reconstruction of their country. the european union must step up its action.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why are we so proud of this report? why should we thank andrius kubilius? for two reasons and a third. the first is the firmness with which this report condemns the actions, the misdeeds of the putin regime, both outside the borders of the russian federation and within it. the second is the warmth with which this report extends the hand of friendship and hope to the people of the russian federation. this report added something new to our condemnation of the putin regime. the report says that, beyond this regime, we obviously want the best possible relations and the greatest possible cooperation with a people who share the same continent, culture and civilization as we do. this second point is of course the most important of the two points in the kubilius report. because the first one, my god, we all knew it. this is not new in our conception and in our view of the situation. but to say, as this relates to this force, that beyond the present moment, one day we will rebuild this continent together: there is something new. and there, above all, is the certainty that mr. putin and his regime are not eternal.
madam president, following the votes that have just taken place, i would like to request that the serious cross-border threats to health report, as well as the ecdc file, on behalf of ms kopcińska, be referred back to the committee responsible for interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 59(4).
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, a minute to talk about china, the organization of our debates borders on surrealism joseph borrell noted this earlier and he is right. i shall therefore avoid general remarks and concentrate on one point, namely the presence of china in european universities and research. in this and other areas, our naivety leaves us speechless. we have not paid enough attention to the strategic sectors, often in the grey area between civil and military, in which scientific cooperation with china abounds. we have allowed the confucius institutes to proliferate and dictate, wherever they establish themselves, what research topics are allowed and what are forbidden when it comes to china. we do not know who the european researchers are whom beijing has convinced to work for chinese research and under what conditions they put their knowledge at the service of a country and often an army, the people's liberation army, whose ambitions should worry us. in short, we have accepted without reacting a growing dependence of our universities on cooperation with china, at the risk of a looting of our knowledge and a chinese censorship in our research. it is time to impose transparency where there is opacity, to stop letting our universities do anything in a dispersed order and to build a real strategy for scientific sovereignty in europe.
madam president, the eu needs to steer, once and for all, an independent course with regard to china and the newly—emerged multipolar world. therefore, we need a unilateral autonomy to be able to enforce our rules for all players on our single market, european or not – for example, by means of an instrument to fight distortive foreign subsidies – especially since the cai, as reinhard bütikofer said, is in the freezer for the moment. the real litmus test of our strategic autonomy for me would be a deepened economic relation with taiwan, not as a provocation, but as an affirmation of our agency. we also need bilateral engagement through dialogue before all, but this also means standing up for what’s right. an import ban on goods produced with forced labour is long overdue. what is happening in xinjiang cannot be explained away as a difference of understanding between east and west, as some people are doing here in this house. multilateral pressure is, of course, important and this means to uphold a good constructive dialogue with the us and japan to go ahead and uphold our democratic values. what all these initiatives have in common is the need for coordination. therefore, we need a china task force that brings together all the member states so that we sing from the same hymn sheet. this is long overdue, commissioner.
madam president, madam commissioner, if dialogue with beijing may be necessary to combat climate change, we must be firm in other areas. in particular, china should commit to fully respecting the rules of the wto and work towards its reform. on the investment agreement, our message remains clear: there is no way we can vote or study anything as long as china maintains its sanctions against our institutions. and even if this agreement is frozen, china must honour its commitments to ratify and implement the ilo conventions on forced labour. we will not condone inhuman practices against the uighur minority or hong kongers. commissioner, it is high time that europe had the right instruments, including a mechanism to ban the import of products resulting from forced labour or the instrument to counter coercive measures. it is high time to ensure that our values are respected, our ambitions are promoted and our actions are consistent.
madam president, i congratulate hilde vautmans on her report. i also commend the tone and substance of today’s debate in comparison to last december’s eu—china summit. it is real progress. we are very realistic in our response to chinese diplomacy and policies. i stress the necessity to stay in solidarity with countries like lithuania, czechia and also with taiwan – and with our colleagues here in the european parliament – to counter chinese coercion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the 21st century, the politics of power will no longer succeed in imposing our will on a fifth of the world's population. our generation is facing the historic task of preserving peace in order to tackle global challenges such as climate change, poverty eradication and technological revolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. clean mobility will have to be designed together. we can and must decisively improve human rights, both individual and social, through cooperation and dialogue, and establish an understanding of xinjiang, hong kong, taiwan, the problems and opportunities of economic and trade links and dependencies, and the eu-china comprehensive investment agreement. this means that we must work together with the united states, with other actors and, in particular, with the people's republic of china, to reorganize the global structure in a peaceful way.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank hilde for the exceptional, excellent work she has done on her report. this report does indeed make a good point about the human rights issue in our relationship between the european union and china. when we talk about human rights with china, we understand the gap that exists between a european model and a chinese model. forced labour, re-education camps, persecution of various minorities, restrictions on freedom of expression and association and freedom of the press, arbitrary arrests of pro-democracy activists, hong kong, taiwan, macao, not to mention tibet... but these massive human rights violations that are happening in china, china is trying to export them through its partnerships with other countries, through multilateralism, in which it imposes a chinese vision, but also sometimes in our private companies, where it pressures to fire people who would have taken positions in favor of democracy, or even in this parliament when it puts us under sanctions. so in this report we say how we should work with china, without naivety. of course, china is a global player, but we need to have strategic autonomy from the chinese model.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs vautmans, for her excellent report and for the good cooperation she has had with the commerce committee, because trade policy plays a very important role in relations with china. a chinese proverb says: "it is better to stumble a little on a new path than to stand still on the old one". and that's exactly what it's got to be about. we all know the situation in china. but we also know that we have to cooperate in certain areas. it is therefore right that we should be thinking about the question of an instrument to safeguard public procurement, that we should make it clear that illegal subsidies are not acceptable in the internal market, that we should have a law on supply chains. but we also know that we need china in the wto and in climate action. in that sense, both elements are involved. and that's exactly what it is. new thinking yes, but also with a clear self-awareness of our interests. so, clear edge, but not narrow-minded.
madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, it is september 14, 2021 and millions of uyghurs are still in concentration camps in china; not for what they do, but for who they are. i'm sure you're tired of hearing about this crime against humanity, but these camps have been in existence for five years. five years of greedy multinational corporations profiting from the enslavement of a people. five years our leaders have refused to act to stop the horror. but we know what we should do: banish the products of slavery from our markets. it's still not done. then let's do it then. sanctions on the most senior figures in the repression, such as chen quanguo, the architect of the deportation of the uighurs after being the one responsible for the repression of the tibetans. it's still not done. then let's do it then. hundreds of thousands of young people across europe are mobilizing to break the silence surrounding the disappearance of a people. i am only their echo in this chamber today. listen to them. they are the pride of europe. they're conjuring us into action. then let's get to it!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, learning from the past is a wise and common sense phrase. and yet the european union, which is chasing enlargement to infinity, is not inspired by this. that is more than €14 billion you want to give to the candidate countries for the period 2021-2027. after the commission's dismal failures in the face of the brutal challenges we face - managing the health crisis, the flood of migration - if countries are candidates, it is for our money. and which countries, since the main beneficiaries of this public money will be the countries of the western balkans for the most part, turkey on the other hand. what folly on the part of the european union to want to spend such large sums when it is clear to everyone today that turkey will never, ever join the european union. turkey and albania are gangrenous with islamism and the other balkan countries, largely unstable, are crossings for an already insane immigration to europe. enough of this messianic vision by which you think you can change the peoples. it systematically leads to unnecessary spending and chaos in our respective nations. the only slogan is: enough with the enlargements!
mr president, this mechanism is an important tool for the accession countries to carry out the necessary reforms to comply fully with the european acquis. the authors of this text deserve to be congratulated. but before we can achieve full compliance, there are some fundamental conditions that must be met, such as the principle of democracy, human rights, the rule of law, respect for agreements with the european union and many others. all of this is already being violated by the turkish regime of erdoğan. as regards the turkish regime's external relations with the european union, it continues its illegal occupation of european union territory in cyprus. he doesn't even respect the decisions of the european court of justice. it violates the principles of good neighborliness. it does not even recognise the republic of cyprus, although there is already an agreement with the european union to that effect. it expands the crime of settlement to varosha, afrin and elsewhere. it's encroaching on the internationally recognized eez in the area. i am speaking to you, commissioner. it would be good to admit all this publicly if we want this regulation to be properly applied.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will try to remain calm, even though those outside parliament who are listening to the debate on the 14.5 billion euro for ipa iii, after ipa i and ipa ii, where we have put 22 billion, hope that those 14 billion will be for work, for the young, for the unemployed, for those who may not be able to sleep in a few hours because they are thinking of finding a job, for those who may have to start work in a few hours but are unable to send their children to school. but here we are discussing the question of giving pre-accession funds to turkey to enable it to join europe. beyond my personal opinion that turkey has nothing to do with europe, that an islamic extremist country can have nothing to do with europe, but there is an essential element: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. those who are inside europe pay, the founding countries pay to stay in europe and here today we are speculating 14.5 billion to pre-accession other states inside europe. we use these resources for the needs of our citizens, our young people and our families.
member of the commission. – mr president, many thanks for this interesting debate. it demonstrates your continued deep interest in the instrument and in the region, and reflects the determination that the instrument deliver results. i warmly welcome today’s endorsement by the parliament and i’m looking ahead to our next step, which is to turn the promise of the new instrument into reality. we will engage fully in the regular geopolitical dialogue – another outcome of our negotiations – and i’m looking forward to the first meeting. we will also ensure that, with your engagement and commitment, we complete the legal architecture without delay. this should allow the first year of programming to be completed by the end of this year. i look forward to parliament’s continued efforts to support the region through the instrument of pre-accession and assistance, and i count on you to make the long-awaited projects a common success – their success and our success – for the benefit of the citizens and for the progress of the region. we are stronger together.
in writing. the european union must deliver on its promises to the western balkans and continue enlargement. accept serbia and montenegro as soon as possible and open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. i therefore welcome the adoption of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (known as ipa iii), which is designed to accelerate the eu integration of the western balkans. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu strategy for the western balkans, which aims to achieve the objectives of the union's external action in the region, including the promotion of sustainable development and the promotion of sustainable development in the region. the plan will stimulate the long-term development of the western balkans region, which we hope will bring great added value to the integration of the western balkans into the eu.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. even late at night, important things can and should be discussed. the brexit has been a reality for some eight months now - a reality that is of no real benefit to anyone. i do not want to go into the empty shelves in the uk or the breakdown of certain trade flows. in some regions of the eu member states, brexit is also having very concrete negative consequences for businesses and public institutions. the european union has promised to support these regions, these member states, small and mediumsized enterprises, through a fund of assistance, if the united kingdom leaves the eu. and we have kept that promise with the current brexit adjustment reserve, this 5.5 billion euro aid fund. i would like to thank all the negotiating partners across the political spectrum here in parliament and in the council for the very constructive, flexible and results-oriented cooperation. we have found a well-matured compromise which allows us to pay out aid to the regions and businesses most affected by brexit as early as this year. i would like to make one point very clear at this point: the 5.5 billion euro is a considerable sum, but it can only cover part of the overall economic damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects. it is good and right that the european union should show solidarity on this issue as well. i would like to focus on six points which were particularly important to me during the negotiations and which are now included in this reserve fund. firstly, clear and measurable criteria for the disbursement of funds. the important thing is that we were able to agree on clearly measurable and meaningful criteria for the disbursement of brexit aid. the funds must go where they are needed. this is due, on the one hand, to the extent or intensity of the regions' trade relations with the united kingdom, which has played a significant role in this key. we have also emphasized once again the fisheries and coastal regions. secondly, the importance of fisheries. small-scale coastal fisheries and local and regional communities dependent on fishing activities in uk waters are to receive at least 3.5% and 7% of the national allocation. this means that the member states can of course allocate more, but not less. these are the six countries whose fishermen are most affected by brexit and its consequences, and only those six. we have also been able to extend the scope of the regulation to allow those fishermen who fish outside uk waters and are still suffering from the negative effects of brexit to benefit from the adaptation reserve. we have specifically targeted the fishermen in the south of france, spain and portugal. and to make it clear again, and to make it clear with spain, the spanish state can use the reserve for the fisheries sector without limitation, provided that it can prove that there is actual damage, and not just the 3 million which is included in the calculation of the spanish share as the so-called fishery component. the calculation criterion is not the same as the distribution criterion. and in the case of the conviction, spain, to take this example again, will receive some 80 million more than originally planned. this flexible approach has enabled us to meet the demands of the sector from the southern countries. this was the direct result of a really tough negotiation and it is a clear sign of the fraught fisheries sector on the one hand and a certain flexibility for the member states on the other. a compromise is not perfect, but the solution negotiated was acceptable to both sides. thirdly, the adjustment of the duration of the period for the costs incurred. we've arranged for this to run from january 1, 2020 to december 31, 2033. fourthly, the distribution of resources. that was the elephant in the room, that was the hard part. we have, in many discussions, designed this so-called allocation key in such a way that the commission's original proposal, which provided for a distribution according to criteria of the first 4 billion and not the last billion, has now been changed to include the last billion. in close cooperation between the political groups and the national delegations here in the house, but also with the permanent representations in the council, we agreed on the method to be used before the trilogue. the result has the advantage that all member states also get a share of the last billion, so that at the end of the day each member state gets more. fifthly, the speed of the payments. we'll pay you in four installments. the first tranche of 1.7 billion was paid in december of this year; eur 1,3 billion at the beginning of 2022; 1.3 billion at the beginning of 2023 and the remaining 1.1 billion will be paid out in 2025. we have also included in article 5 of these criteria that small and mediumsized enterprises, self-employed and local communities are supported, that investment in job creation and reintegration into the labour market including short-time work programmes or retraining is possible. and we have written into it that investments in the member states for customs and other controls that have become necessary after brexit are also possible, by and large. and then, i conclude, this is a compromise that i think is well made. i would like to thank you again for the exchange and the very constructive discussions and negotiations with all the other negotiators here. it was a very intense time. we have fought a lot with each other for the best ideas and we have unanimously adopted this text in regi - a strong sign of cohesion in a difficult act. the brexit is and will remain a historic mistake, but we have ensured that the european union acts in solidarity and stands with these people. thank you for your support and thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on budgets voted unanimously, with four abstentions, for the draft amending budget to implement this post-brexit adjustment reserve. this reserve, as pascal has just explained, will make it possible to provide very concrete help to all our citizens and all the small businesses that are affected by the consequences of brexit. thank you to all those who negotiated this agreement. it was complicated, but pascal said the main thing is a good deal. i shall not say much more and we have no problem supporting it. but after brexit, what are the plans for reviving europe? what plans are there to bring europe together and to revive it? will europe give itself the means to succeed post-brexit, to succeed in the green deal for europe? 75% of young europeans find the future scary. this is a survey published today in several european countries. 75% of young people find the future scary. because of climate change, 56% of the respondents believe that humanity is doomed. 39% of young people in our countries are reluctant to have children. they're right to be worried. we are european leaders, are we finally going to meet their expectations? we know that there are solutions, concrete and credible solutions, and i will come back to them. but what are we waiting for to put them into practice? over 700 people have died this summer in canada's heat waves. dozens of people have died in flooding in and around new york city. we all saw those scenes of horror in new york. more than 200 people have died in belgium and germany from flooding, and from monstrous forest fires in turkey, algeria, california, and greece. this summer, climate change has killed hundreds and hundreds of people, and left tens and tens of thousands of people in need. and the report that the ipcc climate scientists just released shows that these deadly extreme weather events are going to be more and more frequent, more and more numerous, more and more severe in their human and economic consequences. and the ipcc shows that we only have a few years left. the green deal for europe is still a possibility. it is still possible to win the climate battle, but we have only a few years to do so. ten days ago, i asked, along with other members, that the ipcc officials be heard in plenary by our parliament. i regret that at the moment no date has been set for this dialogue with climate scientists from the ipcc, which could be very important. yesterday, it was the world bank that announced 200 million climate refugees, 200 million climate refugees by 2050. we're not able to break the co2 and methane curve. the world bank, which reports these frightening figures. look at the faces of the 200 million men and women, young and old, who will have to leave the land of their birth in order not to die. so what are we waiting for to act? to avoid chaos, yes, the green deal can be the great project to rebuild europe after brexit. but you have to give yourself the means to win the battle. and to do that, we need to act much more radically, to act much more ambitiously, in at least two areas: the area of regulation and the area of financing. on regulatory issues: you may have read the 400-page report published by the international energy agency on 18 may 2021. the international energy agency is calling for an immediate halt to any new oil and gas exploration projects. the international energy agency is calling for an immediate halt to all new oil and gas exploration projects. it is feasible, it is urgent, the international energy agency tells us so. and unfortunately, in the latest climate proposals of the european commission, there is not a single line on this absolutely fundamental issue. to win the battle for climate and jobs, billions would have to be spent on insulating homes, making public transportation work, or developing renewable energy. we can create 5 million jobs in europe with a real green deal. last november, our parliament voted on concrete solutions to finance the green deal for europe. we're not going to ask every family to find 40,000 euros to insulate their house. we are not going to ask every sme to finance the transformation work. we need hundreds of billions of dollars in aid. the european parliament voted on five proposals. the most ambitious, the fastest to implement, is a small tax on speculation. i'll call you back with the numbers. despite brexit and despite the economic crisis, the tax on speculation is said to bring in 60 billion a year. we all voted for this text last november. we can also create a tax on billionaires. forbes magazine tells us that the number of billionaires has tripled in ten years, and that in the year since the virus broke out, the 20 richest billionaires have gained an additional $600 billion. perhaps we can ask them to make an effort. unfortunately, when we heard the european commissioner responsible for the budget last week, we all understood that all these negotiations to find new resources have come to a complete standstill. one or another head of state had blocked the negotiation to please the banking lobby. in france, it is the same people who told us in july that there was no money for a real climate law and the same people who are blocking negotiations at european level to tax speculation. this double talk is becoming unbearable. friends, i think it's a little obscene to tell us that there's no money for climate, no money for jobs, no money for health, when the financial markets have never been at such high levels and a small tax would bring in 60 billion a year. it's time to get our shit together. we are facing a life-threatening emergency. this is a life-threatening emergency. success in the climate plan, success in the green pact, is not just one project among others. our children will hate us if we stick to empty speeches. our children won't talk to us, our children will throw stones at us and they'll be right. my friends, it's time to act. 56% of young people think humanity is doomed. 75% of young people, our young people, our children, see the future as scary. it's time to prove them wrong. it's time to show that hope is possible and it's time to change the game. in 1950, adenauer and schuman created the coal and steel union in just two weeks. the time to create a climate and employment union is now. it's urgent. i have to go. let's move!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, empty supermarket shelves, a shortage of drivers, paralysing administrative paperwork, the price of basic necessities soaring... as the consequences of brexit hit the british people hard, boris johnson last week voted a massive tax hike to re-fund the uk's healthcare system, the infamous nhs. the same nhs that, five years ago, the brexiters promised to refinance. what's the problem? the commission has also proposed that the today the british people are paying for the folly and the lies of nigel farage, boris johnson and the other eurosceptics. they promised them a lot of things. they promised them that with brexit, the nhs would be bailed out. but what a failure! instead, it will take 12 billion in taxes to keep it afloat. but let us also look at home, because the blindness of the eurosceptics has consequences not only for the british. we too suffer from this disastrous choice. so, at a time when boris johnson is absent for all his fellow citizens, we must be there for the europeans. the aim of this brexit fund will be to help those most affected: those for whom trade with the united kingdom is so essential, our fishermen on the front line of brexit, our smes who are leaving the british market. i am glad that we have reached agreement on this 5 billion aid. they demonstrate our solidarity with the regions and sectors most affected, without any state being unfairly left out. i thank my colleagues, and in particular rapporteur pascal arimont, for the hard work we have done together. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, brexit has failed in the united kingdom, where the lies have been exposed to the world, just as they have been here on the continent. so unlike the eurosceptics, we, however, are here to answer.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, we have reached this point. the negotiations were difficult, but i think we were able to improve the original proposal of the european commission considerably, in particular by improving the distribution of funds between our member states, but also and above all, i think this is the most important thing, to ensure that the sectors most affected, and i am thinking in particular of fishermen, are offered the support they need to be able to recover. we are giving the fishing industry the readability and visibility it needed. we ensure that administrative procedures are simple. we are making sure that the fishermen who will be affected, even in jersey, guernsey, the malvinas, will be taken into account in the distribution of funds. this is fundamental because, let us remember, they are now losing 25% of the value of the fishing capacity they could have operated in uk waters. and i think we have to remember that this is also a key to the strategic autonomy of our countries: today we import half of the fishery products we consume in europe. if we want to guarantee our food sovereignty, our countries have no right to abandon those who fish, and i believe that is the message we are sending through this improvement of the brexit adjustment reserve.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the withdrawal of the united kingdom is without doubt one of the darkest moments in the history of the european project. a divorce with devastating economic and social consequences. it is also a shock that calls on the european union to react quickly and to show once again its true face, that of solidarity. with the creation of this brexit adjustment reserve, europe, through all its institutions, has shown itself to be united, cohesive and capable of adopting a common response to the size of the unprecedented challenges we are facing at high speed. this aid is urgent, necessary and must be provided quickly, without administrative burdens. all differences have been put aside in favour of a political agreement that makes us all win and that offers a breathing gas to our most affected businesses and jobs, our regions and our local communities, whose economic and social cohesion is strongly threatened by brexit. the union has once again prevailed in the face of division; this further demonstration of the european union's solidarity is also a message to all kinds of national egoism. and i say to some of our colleagues in this house: leaving the european union is never a solution. the solution is more cooperation, more solidarity, more unity. the common european responses to the challenges of the covid-19 pandemic, the supply of vaccines, the withdrawal of the uk are the best examples. the european project is alive and well and more alive than ever.
mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the word 'crisis' has become part of our everyday language. we all use the terms "climate crisis", "health crisis" and "diplomatic crisis" in our speech. we therefore have a dual responsibility: to show our fellow citizens that europe is up to the challenges of the crisis and to go further in defending the european model. we were at the crisis meeting. the recovery plan is unprecedented. the targets for vaccinating europeans have been met. the green deal we are working on will also make it possible to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. we have been able to meet our committees and our staff, and now we must go further, faster and more effectively to defend europe. madam president, defending europe means being intransigent on the rule of law. defending europe means having the capacity to finance itself with its own resources and on this subject, madam president, i have heard your speech and we will not accept any retreat from the commission. defending europe means lifting the taboo on european defence, as you said. defending europe means giving ourselves the means to make the ecological transition with a correctness in the public policies we will pursue. defending europe also means considering a digital, democratic european model that protects our data and creates new opportunities for our businesses. in short, defending europe is defending a sovereign europe. madam president, we expect ambition and efficiency from you and your commission. our group will stand by you, but i also turn, as a number of my colleagues in the renew group have done, to my parliamentary colleagues. i hear a lot of calls to go faster, go further. i share their ambitions, but let us be consistent: the nationalists, who are conspicuous by their absence today from the speech of the president of the commission, will certainly organise themselves. let us also see ourselves as pro-european, to be more efficient and to be on the offensive. in any case, the commission will propose, the members will mobilise and will be united for the remainder of the mandate. we have two and a half years left and we have a huge responsibility.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, jean monnet wrote that people only accept change when it is necessary and only see the need in a crisis. the need is there, the crises are there. so, mrs von der leyen, it is time for change, but above all for boldness and courage. take the european project at arm's length. listen, dare, propose, listen again, repeat, propose again, dare even more and, i would say, surprise yourself and surprise us. you're not alone. we, the european parliament, are at your side to help you, to inspire you, but also to criticize you. the conference on the future of europe is a contribution to the 'team europe', of which parliament feels excluded. for example, i am at your disposal to develop together an inclusive and green european identity for and with these young people, and to launch the cultural diplomacy of the future, capable of competing with those of china and the united states. mrs von der leyen, you are our jean monnet of the 21st century.
mr president, madam president, you have drawn up a clear diagnosis and an ambitious road map, but one which will require urgent changes. you mentioned the dependence of our countries on asia, as the health crisis has shown, and you want to guarantee better health protection. but the danger is that we are preparing for the crisis that has already happened. tomorrow's will come from where we don't expect it. at the time you describe this vulnerability, the multiplication of european climate standards will increase our imports from china; the taxonomy could make us permanently dependent on russian and american gas; the commission's own agricultural strategy will lead to a massive decline in food production. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the present crisis. it is through the consistency of actions that public speech takes on meaning. you want to prevent any product of forced labor from being marketed in europe. but why then sign an economic agreement with china at the same time, which has not yet ratified its ban? you refuse to be powerless in the face of uncontrolled migration flows, and so do we. we must send back, you say, those who have no right to remain in europe. but then why is commissioner johansson accusing frontex of taking on this mission? you are assuring your support to countries that are being blackmailed by migration. but mr. erdoğan, who keeps playing, receives billions of euros. and when lithuania asked for help in the face of a near-invasion, ms johansson replied that the commission was not funding walls or barriers. you say, and we say, that european countries must commit themselves to their security, and we welcome your proposal to exempt the defence industry from vat. but at the same time, the european financial regulations are creating severe difficulties for the financing of this crucial sector. and the european working time directive creates a major legal uncertainty for the operations of all european armed forces. finally, a word to the young people who have been so tested, as you have said, in the last few months. it is a bit sad to dedicate 2022 as the year of youth, after leaving him, in 2021, 750 billion euros of debts that are not financed. instead of the artifices of communication, let us offer the next generation a europe that is finally awake and able to guarantee our countries the means to control their own destiny.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the repeated scandals of tax evasion and tax fraud in the european union call for better application of the dac directives and for a joint reflection on the subject. tax evasion has been taking place for several years now in a transnational context, with organised fraud ignoring land borders. the achilles' heel of the system is the unsatisfactory trade between the member states and several third countries, including switzerland, which significantly weakens its effectiveness, as fraudulent organisations are aware of the system's flaws and host their front companies in third countries. the second weakness concerns the identification of the beneficial owners of companies, despite the opening up of register data introduced in recent years. the luxembourg example and the open lux scandal showed the limits of the system by revealing that a significant number of companies did not meet their reporting obligations. as a founding member of the union, luxembourg should be exemplary in its behaviour in the face of tax avoidance. this country of 600 000 people has no less than 150 000 companies. it should be recalled that aggressive tax practices, especially those of multinationals, create an annual loss of €160 to €190 billion for the european union. we are not far from the total budget of the union. in france, two thirds of the cac 40 companies are also present in luxembourg through at least 166 subsidiaries. some of these companies are actually established in luxembourg, but the vast majority of them are the result of aggressive tax optimisation. the commission must tackle letterbox companies and introduce unrestricted disclosure of the registers of the beneficial owners of companies, accompanied by a check on the declarations made. on the other hand, at a time when public deficits are growing, the protection of our public finances must be a priority. the funds collected serve a dual function: to increase tax revenues, but also to assert the authority of the state in the efficiency of tax collection. moreover, when exchanging sensitive data, strict confidentiality must be ensured, as the risk of leakage is not excluded. even if the text seems to strike a balance between ensuring data protection and seeking the information necessary to detect fraudulent installations, the commission must ensure a maximum level of protection.
madam president, in the race against tax evasion, fraudsters are always one step ahead, especially when states refuse to step up and cooperate. whenever a new rule is put in place, these white-collar criminals always come up with a way around it. the latest example is the luxletters scandal, which shows how large consultancies colluded with luxembourg to hide their gifts to multinationals from their neighbours. to prevent such scandals, transparency is a key element, and not just between states, as the limitations of these dac guidelines show. because tax evaders are like vampires: they hate the light. but under pressure from the employers' lobbies and with the complicity of the french government, the text on tax transparency has been largely weakened. so, you who are usually so quick to hold states to account when it comes to cutting our public services budgets or privatizing them, you had better use the same firmness with those who rob us on a daily basis. you're finally going after tax evaders. their impunity has lasted too long.
madam president, what is it that they are hiding? that’s what i think when i hear the rapporteur and the shadows say that they didn’t get from the council the relevant documents and data; and that is needed to fulfil our democratic duty to assess the implementation of the eu rules on administrative cooperation and on taxation. the stance of the council is unacceptable. it underlines a fundamental democratic deficit in a fundamental part of government taxation. behind closed doors decisions are being taken that affect all of us and no parliament, national or european, is able to exercise democratic scrutiny. transparency and accountability are part of the democratic process, and it’s only admirable that the rapporteur sven giegold and his team of shadows still have drafted an insightful report. its conclusions – lack of exchange of information, auditing tools and control mechanisms – are shared by the european court of auditors and i trust that the council will take good note of this report and that the commissioner will push for the implementation of its recommendations.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that we are witnessing an injustice in the matter of european taxation. there are two types of tax: the taxes that citizens have to pay and those that they have to pay and the taxes that should be paid, or rather that are not paid by the big web giants. today, if we think that in 2018 the revenues of the web giants were three and a half billion and they paid taxes for 70 million, if they were taxed according to italian taxation they would have to pay 30 times more than what they paid, that is, they pay candies compared to extremely luxurious profits. this tax evasion and avoidance by the web giants is worth 50 billion euros in the last five years. this is the real challenge that the commission and parliament must have the courage to face. you can't think of taxing citizens and not being able to tax the big web giants.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. tax evasion, tax fraud and tax avoidance create inequalities, distort competition and weaken the european union. without more cooperation and a full information campaign, we cannot win our fight against abuse, fraud and organised crime. the report clearly shows that we have made some progress, but there is still a lot of room for improvement, particularly in the exchange of tax information in europe and the implementation of existing rules. in recent years, the common rules have been improved six times, but have not been implemented. we recently expanded it to include tax data from digital sales platforms. the commission is already working on a new proposal, i.e. an eighth version. the common rules can only be fully effective if we and the member states implement and enforce them all. i think it is inexcusable that there is still too little information exchanged, that the data exchanged are still not used, that the quality of the data is still not controlled and that the effectiveness of the fourth and fifth anti-money laundering directives is still undermined. let's move! it seems that decisions alone are not enough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, sven giegold, good, good for your report, good for the rapporteur and for all the work that has been done in the field of information exchange and transparency. but, my god, the road is long and full of obstacles. we saw last july, through the press, a consortium of journalists telling us about a scandal, the luxletters, and showing us how a country - not necessarily to point the finger, because mine is not always exemplary either - was happily circumventing certain european regulations. this is intolerable. this is intolerable, first of all, for the citizens, for the europeans. this is intolerable in a context of social, health and democratic crisis, because our continent is not doing very well in this respect. it is also intolerable for all the work we can do in parliament and i have spoken about sven, but i could speak about paul tang, i could speak about evelyn regner and many others. this is intolerable to the commission. on 15 july we sent you, commissioner, a letter asking you to clarify the matter. we're looking forward to your response. we know the commission is progressive and all-round, but that is important to us. it's important for the citizens and just for one stupid thing: that the rule be the same for everyone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report enables us to measure progress, of course, but also the scope for improvement in tax cooperation between the member states, which has now become, one might say, a major weapon in the fight against tax evasion and money laundering. of course, before we demand that third countries follow the example of what we do, we must try to do it ourselves. since 2011, with the first dac directive, the sharing of tax information between member states has made real progress in the form of continued enlargement. this in-depth study must continue. the tax scandals of recent years, which have tarnished the credibility of the european union, are a constant reminder of the way forward: ensure full implementation of the legislation adopted and extend the cooperation mechanism to new aspects, notably in the field of crypto-currencies. and our parliament, commissioner, will play its full part in this.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, how many of us have had our phones, yes, our own phones, infected by the pegasus software? because what we're talking about doesn't just happen to other people, and espionage isn't just in movies and tv shows. if the pegasus scandal has any merit, it is, ladies and gentlemen, that it has made us aware of the security and the fight against foreign interference which concern us all. this year, this parliament - our parliament - has been the target of at least one serious and massive cyber attack. this year, the press reported that at least one of our political group's collaborators had proven links with russia. this year, several parliamentarians were sanctioned for pretending to be on official missions to controversial regimes. i have twice called the president of this parliament to ask him to work seriously on the establishment of sufficient resources and the promotion of a genuine culture of security in this parliament. i'm still waiting for his answer. i think she can't wait any longer.
i have to say, madam president, on the pegasus scandal, a heads-up: clear-cut surveillance is part of our law enforcement, but that's not what we're talking about here. nor about isolated cases of abuse. it is a systematic disregard for democracy and the rule of law. under the guise of fighting crime, governments have been using spyware to target critics and unpopular individuals. and this scandal makes it clear once again: without data protection and privacy protection, people cannot freely assemble, they cannot freely express their opinions. on the contrary, people are persecuted, pressured, imprisoned, or even murdered. widespread surveillance is a real threat to democracy and freedom, to life and limb. it is incompatible with the principles of the rule of law. four points are important now. first, clarification: where and for what purpose was this spyware used in the eu? on what legal basis? and what did orbán know about this surveillance? the commission is called upon once more. secondly, transparency and control of the spy companies. here too, our governments have a responsibility to take a common line against the use of spyware. thirdly, greater involvement of the big digital companies. they must protect their users from spyware and give them the ability to check for themselves whether their devices have been compromised. and fourth, more and better encryption, because any deviation from it threatens fundamental rights. pegasus once again demonstrates how quickly democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law can be undermined. and that's why all democrats must act now.
madam president, whenever there are clear rule of law violations in europe, we will solve them ourselves, and we are already in the process of doing so. but what europe cannot use at such a moment is foreign firms and foreign governments de facto enabling the crackdown and breakdown of democracy in europe. that is exactly what the israeli government de facto did by authorising the sale of pegasus malware to the government of viktor orbán. it enabled orbán to spy on, and attempt to further degrade, the democratic opposition in hungary. the israeli pegasus sale to hungary, therefore, is in a way a clear matter of unwanted foreign influence and foreign interference. i now ask my israeli friends, as a true friend of israel, to stop contributing to this. stop exporting pegasus to european nations with a clear rule-of-law problem. help the eu to strengthen democracy, not to degrade it. and, dear commissioner, may i kindly ask you to communicate this message clearly to the government in tel aviv?
(inaudible) ... a few weeks ago, revealing that the intrusion affected many victims from many countries, mentioning explicitly the case of catalonia. this very same week, apple urged to update its operating system to protect users from intrusion by pegasus. among the victims of these spy programs, there is the catalan independence movement. the clients of pegasus are governments – the government of spain. can you imagine if the government of your own member state spied on an elected representative? the scandal would lead to a major political crisis. but spain is doing it with absolute impunity. espionage of opponents is the defining trait of the world’s autocratic regimes. if you do not take these crimes seriously, if you do not curb espionage by member states, european democracy is at grave danger.
president, technological and digital developments can be extremely important in tackling crime and protecting our society from criminals under strict conditions. but then it is crucial that such technology is not used in an illegal or arbitrary way. that's exactly what we're talking about here today. we've been able to read a lot about pegasus and we're grateful for the work of the citizen lab and others and all the journalists who have investigated and brought this case to light. because the idea that a government can just give itself access to our phones, our cameras, our conversations and our personal messages is beyond shocking. but for some people, it's much more than that. because for journalists, human rights activists, lawyers and politicians in some countries, it's not just shocking, it's downright life-threatening. patches are being applied. apple released an update yesterday to close the leak, but the wound under those patches still stinks. more effort and, above all, more information is absolutely necessary. commission president von der leyen was absolutely right when she said that this use of spyware in this way is absolutely unacceptable. we need more answers to the question of how and whether european member states - and hungary in particular - used this technology and how europeans ended up falling victim to this spyware. what are we going to do in europe to protect our citizens from this kind of technology? and also, most importantly, how are we going to make sure that outside our borders, we're not letting this kind of technology fall into the wrong hands?
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a foreign power, morocco, is spying on the french head of state without anything happening. the pegasus software of the israeli company nso is being used by dozens of states against european citizens without any action being taken. this can't go on. and the pegasus scandal, revealed this summer by forbidden stories reporters, is just beginning. i have a few simple questions to ask you, commissioner. in addition to hungary, which european countries have purchased and used the pegasus software? we have a right to know. why does nso exclude american numbers and not european numbers from its software? we have a right to know. what do you intend to do about the european investors in nso, who have thus helped to finance the illegal spying on european citizens? we have a right to know. these and many other questions will be asked until we get answers. it is about europe's sovereignty and our freedoms. we have all been elected to defend the rights and interests of european citizens. that's what we have to do now.
madam president, cybersecurity is a necessity to preserve our democracies and our sovereignty. while software such as pegasus can be useful in the fight against terrorism, it is vital that we have a clear legislative framework to control its use. journalists, political opponents, but also many of us, colleagues, have been victims of various types of computer attacks and i know something about this personally, mr commissioner. the fight against cybercrime must be conducted at national and european level, but also in a multilateral perspective, by considering an international cybersecurity agreement to prohibit certain practices, which would be modelled on the 1993 chemical weapons convention, for example. pegasus also highlighted threats and violations from within the union and we must demand full transparency from the member states that have used pegasus, starting with hungary. which other member states have used it? we have a right to know, the european citizens have a right to know.
madam president, pegasus is a european issue. the israeli company nso, which designed and sells this monitoring software, said that at least 30% of its customers were in europe. it would be quite comfortable to view the problem solely and exclusively as that of chinese espionage, russian espionage, foreign interference by authoritarian states, overseas. but the reality is quite different and the lack of response from our leaders has been terrifying. the president of the french republic himself was under surveillance, public figures in germany, spain, belgium, a government directly involved, that of hungary. what silence! why would you do that? how many secret services, european police forces, interior ministries have considered using this tool? how many purchases were made? how many attempts have been made to acquire it? and how many of our journalists, activists, political opponents are being monitored by their own government in the european union?
madam president, madam vice-president, commissioner and minister, at each session its resolution on the rule of law in the european union, again and again. today we are once again standing up for freedom of the press. yes, we must prevent the disappearance of tvn24, one of the last free voices in poland. but we had already had such an action last march for media freedom in poland already, but also in hungary and slovenia. what if we finally do something? in her state of the union address this morning, ursula von der leyen announced a new law on media freedom. we expect a lot from the protection of journalists, from the independence of national regulators, from the pluralism of information sources and we expect more from the application of sanctions and above all from the introduction of conditions for obtaining funds from european money. to be european is to respect values and to embody a flawless democracy. freedom of the media and of opinion is the basis of this.
madam president, we’re talking today not about poland, commissioner, but about the lex tvm, which is textbook orbán. it is a trick using one law which has nothing to do with media in order to eliminate your opponents and your critics. now i have the feeling, colleagues, with all due respect, that exchanging arguments with the polish government party is a dialogue of death. we’re not convincing anybody, so let’s stop the exchange of arguments and resort to action. i welcome the action taken by the commission in the past couple of weeks, and i’m also pleased to hear that as of next year, the annual rule of law report will contain country-specific recommendations. but most of all, i call on the commission to finally apply the rule-of-law conditionality, and i disagree with president von der leyen, who considers it to be only an anti-fraud tool. no, it’s a rule-of-law tool, and it’s the only thing that will get the polish government, the hungarian government and others who are violating the rule of law moving. so please, commissioner – and i know that i’m preaching to the converted here – immediate application of the law that has been in force since 1 january.
madam president, once again we are meeting to discuss the rule of law and media freedom in poland. and once again, a resolution that may be left unanswered. we talked about the state of the union this morning. the silencing of the media, the repression of all democratic dissent, journalists being prevented from covering a new humanitarian crisis at the belarusian border with the declaration of a state of emergency: what a sad warning of the state of our union coming from poland. yes, we do need to declare a state of emergency, but an emergency for the media, which is in danger, for the independence of the judiciary, for the safety of lgbt youth and women's rights, for freedoms, for the rule of law. we demand the full implementation of the audiovisual media services directive. let us demand respect for the judgments of the court of justice. let us courageously use all the tools at our disposal without delay. if the member states do not defend our values, it is the european union, its institutions and the credibility of our words that are in danger.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, president von der leyen has made a big promise today to women and girls in europe. she will propose a law to combat gender—based violence: from prevention to protection and effective prosecution, both online and offline. that is a big promise, considering that already in october 2015, the commission had promised a framework for combating violence against women. the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention is still on hold to this day, which is absolutely shameful. and of course, we would hope that the commission would not repeat the mistakes of the past; we do not want promises, we want action. this report asks for the inclusion of gender—based violence in the list of crimes under article 83(1) tfeu. this would only be one small step in the right direction. what women and girls need is a comprehensive legal framework which focuses on prevention through an education programme directed at both boys and girls, protection measures, psychological support, shelters and access to social housing, specialist support for children, and legal clarification of custody and visitation rights for children, severe consequences for forced marriages, stalking, including cyber—stalking, and denial of reproductive rights and denial of access to reproductive health care. the commission should also bring pressure to bear on member states to properly implement already existing legislation. and here we members of the parliament have a role to play. it is not enough to vote for the report; we can and we have also to put pressure on our own governments to educate our people, to make it clear that we are caring not just here in the hemicycle, but also in real everyday life.
for the greens/efa group mr president, when a woman dies from the blows of her partner, when any woman is harassed in public or at work, when a homosexual boy is killed in a lynching, it is not by chance. it is not the result of isolated acts of anger, of deviant individual behavior. gender-based violence has a structural cause. our european societies are historically and globally built by male domination, and if we do not take this into account, we will never be able to really fight them. this is why gender-based violence must be included in the european crime framework, so that it is clear everywhere that these crimes have the same cause and that we have common levers to combat them, so that there is an effective and functional change in our patterns, our cultures, our structures, our mindsets and that there is a collective appropriation of equality.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, as you said, the candidate for president of the european commission, mrs ursula von der leyen, committed herself to making gender-based violence a european crime. this morning she announced that a bill will be proposed to combat violence against women. this initiative was strongly welcomed by parliament. now we expect the commission to be ambitious and to keep its commitments. because, ladies and gentlemen, how can we claim to be fighting for equality in europe if we are not able to eradicate gender-based violence? how can we accept, i ask myself, that every day on our continent women are murdered because they are women? we must fight all forms of violence, together, as 27 and once and for all. making gender-based violence a european crime means first of all recognising that it is a serious crime and that it knows no borders. making gender-based violence a european crime means giving ourselves the means to propose comprehensive legislation to end the impunity of perpetrators. but above all, making such violence a european crime protects all women on our continent. my dear colleagues, the time for apologies is over. the fight against gender-based violence starts with your vote tonight. so let each one of us take responsibility.
mr president, we are here today to consider a definition of gender-based violence, which would be a new area of crime. but why do we need a new definition and why this silence about the origin of these criminals? unfortunately, all societies have known these heinous crimes against women from time immemorial. it is a reality. but the burning of women, the acid attacks, the gang rapes in the cellars, i've never read about them in flaubert's novels or molière's plays. now in sweden, austria, france, our girls are afraid to go out alone in skirts at night. why are two out of three sexual assaults in transport in île-de-france committed by foreigners? why are half of the suspected gang rapes in germany foreigners, including afghans? why are these crimes less common in eastern europe, when these countries are poorer? is it permissible to talk about this explosive report from the swedish ministry of justice which reveals that foreigners born in africa or the maghreb are three to five times more involved in rapes? do we have the right to say that this is enough? read the horrible account of shaina's ordeal. this 15-year-old girl was the victim of multiple rapes and violence by young people in a paris suburb over a period of years. the man who gave him the death blow was named driss. after he got this teenage girl pregnant, he stabbed her and burned her alive. because he didn't want his mother to know he had gotten a whore pregnant, because he was a muslim. let us first think of these crimes, of these women far removed from any ideology.
the european parliament has also called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's food policy is not distorted by the current food crisis. but for this summit to be a success, the european union will have to play a leading role, leading the transition to standards based on respect for human rights, fair competition and environmental protection. the objectives which the union has set itself in recent years cannot be sufficient on their own. cooperation is needed to strengthen scientific knowledge and technological availability so that developing countries can produce more food with less use of resources. not only that, but the emergency we are witnessing, with more than a third of the world's population unable to afford a healthy diet, forces us to commit ourselves to promoting and spreading healthier and more sustainable diets, such as the mediterranean diet, which can improve life expectancy and ensure a more efficient use of natural resources. the increasingly ambitious targets at european level also require an equally ambitious trade policy, which sets international standards for environmental and social sustainability and respect for workers' rights, through reciprocity and convergence systems in the common interest of our trading partners. we therefore call for binding chapters on sustainable development in all trade agreements of the union. only through strong and exemplary leadership can the union make a concrete contribution to achieving the un sustainable development goals.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, 690 million people are chronically hungry today, and hunger has increased every year since 2015, when the sdgs were announced as a pathway to zero hunger. and yet one third of the food we produce is never eaten, and our diets are a major contribution to environmental damage and to loss of biodiversity. our food system is broken. we have to change the way we produce, distribute and consume food. some do not get enough food, while many millions more do not get enough of the right food. it is estimated that three billion people cannot afford a healthy diet. i strongly welcome the un food systems summit and its call to action next week, but we must get the sdgs back on track. food systems affect every one of the sdgs in different ways. that is why myself and other like-minded meps, including madam president, set up the sdg alliance here in the european parliament, which will be launched next week with contributions from commissioners gentiloni and urpilainen. we want to remind people of the extent to which agenda 2030 can be a roadmap for building back better and a guiding principle in all eu policies. the one area i would like to focus on this evening is the lack of any plan to finance agenda 2030. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission about their concrete plans for financing sdg 2 (‘zero hunger’). a convincing solution to financing agenda 2030 involves financial intermediation from multilateral development banks to support long-term development financing. does the commission have a plan for providing further capital for these banks? also, public debt has increased in 108 countries in 2020, placing further pressure on states’ ability to produce sustainable food systems. does the commission intend to promote debt relief outside of the g20 process? the only way to get the sdgs back to the foreground of public policy is by working across political lines and across borders. the sdg alliance here in the european parliament is well placed to be a lead advocate for that purpose.
for the greens/efa group madam president, this morning in her state of the union address, mrs von der leyen did not once say the words 'peasant', 'fisherman', 'food' or 'agriculture'. obviously, that's not one of his priorities. yet, according to the united nations, 2.3 billion people do not have access to enough food, and 800 million go hungry every day. the common agricultural policy continues to ruin tens of millions of farming families in the southern countries, but also in the northern ones. malnutrition is not limited to africa or asia. it is also a reality for millions of our fellow europeans who have to rely on the solidarity of associations to feed themselves. the only way to change this is to enable the world's farmers to live with dignity for their work, and to stop being competed for by products sold in the world market. the cap only makes things worse. the 'farm to table' strategy does not even address these issues. the wto's multilateral agreements, which lock us into an economy of predation, competition and destruction, must be reviewed. we must stop bilateral agreements like mercosur, which are disastrous for the climate. we must work to bring about food sovereignty as defined by via campesina more than 25 years ago.
mr president, food systems around the world are under pressure. next week's un summit should be a catalyst for healthier, more sustainable and equitable food systems. but we also have to look at ourselves and come up with a credible food strategy. first of all, we need to create a resilient food economy. the pandemic has shown that the food sector in the eu is a strategic sector. for example, we need to come up with a european protein strategy to reduce our dependence on the rest of the world. we must also empower consumers through clear, transparent information, and put healthy, locally produced food at the centre of our agenda without isolating our economies. more importantly, we need to do circular and sustainable business to innovate, combat food loss, work on healthy soils and promote biodiversity. new genetic technologies can help. finally, we need to ensure that healthy, sustainable food is available to everyone worldwide, with a focus on promoting healthy eating patterns and reducing food poverty. farmers must be at the centre of this. to really work from farmer to plate, we need to provide farmers with market opportunities and get all the stakeholders in the food chain on board. we need to empower farmers globally to deliver sustainable, local and healthy food policies that are in line with each individual's own reality, ambitions, opportunities and challenges.
mr president, commissioner, only a systemic approach to the 2030 agenda can create the conditions for mobilization and dignity on a global scale capable of reversing trends and rescuing the future. the challenge we are leaving to the european commission here today in the context of the preparation of the united nations summit on food systems is therefore one of enormous opportunity. eradicating hunger and ensuring the right of all to adequate food means innovating with determination in tackling inequalities and developing sustainable food systems. it also involves making choices in terms of trade policy and development cooperation and aid policy. as president of the european parliament delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i welcome the provisions to develop a partnership between equals for capacity building and sustainable development contained in the post-cotonou agreement. the entry into force of this agreement must not be delayed, commissioner. this is the time to move quickly from political agreements to implementation on the ground. the people and the planet can't wait.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin today with a major concern regarding the organisation of the un world summit on food systems. civil society and small producers have been totally excluded from a process in the hands of agribusiness. the indigenous peoples whose lands and seas are being taken away are being excluded, and the farmers' organizations and small-scale artisanal fishermen are being excluded. it is unacceptable to hold a summit on food systems without including those who produce 70% of the food consumed in the world. we cannot leave the keys to our food system to the giants of agribusiness alone. let's not be blinded by their false good solutions. the real solutions to feeding the world are in our hands: redistribute resources equitably, promote agro-ecology in the countryside, end the overexploitation of the oceans for which we are responsible in developing countries, review our trade rules in the face of free trade abuses and promote food sovereignty. but we also need to make our own policies consistent with these objectives: we import 63% of the seafood we consume, our fishing fleet is active on all oceans, sometimes in direct competition with local populations. to feed the aquaculture fish, fish meal is imported, as in senegal, from fish normally consumed by the population. the european union has a role to play if the sustainable development goals are to be achieved everywhere. our whole food system needs to be re-engineered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last few years have marked the beginning of a new era, one of permanent uncertainty due to the consequences of the ecological disaster: the covid-19 pandemic, fires, droughts, floods, cold waves. our way of producing, consuming and exchanging goods is leading us to disaster. and our agricultural model is at the heart of these deadly dynamics. with its pesticides, it poisons the air, sterilizes the soil and asphyxiates the water. by intensively farming, they are concocting the pandemics of tomorrow. by preying on ecosystems, it eradicates biodiversity. by concentrating it in a few hands, it's ruining farmers all over the world. how can we not react to the famine that has struck madagascar because of the climate catastrophe? the united nations summit on food systems, which will take place in new york in a few days' time, should have been the occasion to initiate a much-needed bifurcation. but instead, the lobbyists robbed the summit. the big industrialists are celebrating. farmers and biodiversity suffer. europe could act through agroecology, the end of free trade, respect for the rights of farmers and the rest of life. but the common agricultural policy which is about to be adopted is taking us into the wall. it needs to be revised urgently if we are to finally tackle the climate and food challenges.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this morning the president of the european commission announced that 2022 would be the year of youth and, as the new academic year begins, students returning to university will be delighted to hear it, they who are suffering from the social consequences of covid-19, with huge unemployment and poverty rates. while in france, president macron has decided that it is time to reduce student housing allowances and to abolish one-euro meals in universities, and while the cost of student life is exploding, what young people need is not a com with beautiful posters with young people from all over europe, and then with the nice logo of the european union next to it. no, what they need is concrete measures and there were none. there was nothing, nothing, nothing in ursula von der leyen's speech this morning, nor were there any social measures, for that matter. it's an emergency. the solutions are within reach: a minimum income for all from the age of 18, the construction of student housing, quality jobs. declare a social emergency at all levels. and i am counting on you, commissioner schmit, to convey the message to the european commission.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to speak to you tonight as a member of the european parliament for overseas territories to talk about the negative social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic in the outermost regions, and more particularly in our five departments, namely guadeloupe, martinique, french guiana, réunion and mayotte. the crisis in our territories is adding to the economic and social weakness that already existed. not to mention the incompetence of the macron government in france. overseas companies have higher tax and social charges than the metropolitan area. this has a double social consequence for our overseas departments. you need to know that. the overseas companies have much higher tax and social charges than the metropolitan area, and this creates a double consequence. article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is not enough. we are experiencing a major social crisis as a consequence of the epidemic, which is becoming more and more important in our islands because of the geographical situation and the health situation. i will complete tonight's oral question by adding some very simple questions, commissioner: will you initiate a social emergency plan to help all my compatriots in the outermost regions of france? will you take steps to ensure the economic and social recovery of our five overseas departments? in the area of health, will you help us finance investments in the medical field, in particular for the public hospital, which has adequate human and material needs for the pandemics of today and tomorrow? what do you intend to do about the businesses that are closing and the thousands of direct and indirect jobs that are at risk? what solutions will you implement for my countrymen? i ask the european union to take action as soon as possible to help my compatriots. mr schmit, ladies and gentlemen, today, with time running out, i ask you, as a member from overseas, to take action to help my countrymen and our overseas territories economically and socially.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision taken by the united states is obviously a wake-up call, but it must not make us forget three things which seem essential. the first concerns the persons involved in this decision: there are already judicial procedures and i think it is essential to recall this, to reiterate that the necessary means to fight corruption is justice, and that nothing can replace the procedural work of a justice which, with the information at its disposal, can make the necessary decisions. the second element to be noted is precisely this: the european union must become stronger in its fight against corruption. that's a fact. it cannot do so outside these procedural constructions. and of course we welcome the reinforcements that the european union has decided to make in this area through the european public prosecutor's office or the reinforcement of europol. but it is fundamental, and this will be my last point, to recall that the necessary fight against corruption, the indispensable fight for the rule of law, can never become the instrument of a purely political process. we can see how these questions can be exploited today. and i am talking about the european union as a whole. nothing can replace this fundamental achievement in the history of democracy, which has been the construction of procedures that lead to results after a fair debate, after a full investigation, with the means of effective information. and it seems to me that today the danger we face is that this necessary requirement for transparency is being exploited to serve political biases which are necessarily liable to cast suspicion not only on those directly concerned but also, and this is most important, on the democratic procedures themselves. we are faced with a major responsibility and the european union must be at the meeting point of reason and responsibility in this fundamental debate on the rule of law.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2006 the european court of auditors recommended that bulgaria and romania should not be admitted to the european union because of rampant corruption. ten years later, in an audit, the court found that the €5 billion paid to these balkan countries by brussels had been seriously under-funded. on 2 june 2021, the us administration announced that its treasury department had sanctioned three bulgarian citizens and their networks in bulgaria for corruption. the us administration believes that corruption is endangering the rule of law and democracy in bulgaria. yet here yesterday, the president of the brussels administration, ursula von der leyen, announced that she wanted to speed up the accession process of the balkan countries. the subsidies from brussels, i.e. the taxes of the french, the germans, the italians and many others, already represent a third of the gdp of these countries. but the commission always wants more. to include albania, kosovo and bosnia, countries with the highest levels of corruption according to the transparency international ngo's corruption index, ranking 104th on the index, the same as panama or algeria. no, mrs von der layen, investing our money in albania is not investing in the future of europe. let's invest in france, here in alsace or in the north of france. the balkans have always been the crossroads of the swallowed empires and it is up to the member states to deal with the issue of corruption. and what a cover for europe to see us being called to order by the american administration.
mr president, madam commissioner, since the start of the pandemic in 2020, covid-19 has killed more than 750 000 people in the european union. in terms of health, this virus has created several successive waves of contamination, creating an unusual strain in hospitals. on the economic side, entire sectors have been brought to a complete standstill and on the social side, successive periods of lockdown have created isolation and lasting psychological impacts that are to be deplored. but in the last nine months, the vaccine has become the most effective shield to slow the spread of the virus. this vaccine is a brake on the outbreak and severe forms of covid-19. it is a factor of optimism and an accelerator of economic recovery. in the face of the pandemic emergency, action had to be taken swiftly and decisively. the bulk vaccine orders were a major turning point for each member state. they have avoided unbridled competition between european countries on prices, quantities and delivery dates, all while respecting the highest safety standards in the world. the union also exported more than 700 million doses to third countries. today, the epidemic is decreasing. the number of vaccine doses injected in the european union exceeds 550 million units and more than 70% of european citizens are vaccinated. this is a european success, despite a certain delay at the beginning of the crisis. but it's also a success, thanks to the €2.7 billion in eu funds that helped finance some of the initial costs of developing these vaccines. this money from the european union requires real transparency and we have been calling for it for several months. this applies in particular to the contracts concluded by the commission with each of the pharmaceutical laboratories. and while we can understand the confidentiality of certain clauses, particularly technical ones, the commission must be fully transparent about what falls under the responsibility of the laboratories, the dates and volumes of doses delivered to each member state and their price. it is also necessary to assess how the eu strategy for covid-19 vaccines has been constructed. the mistakes we make, the obstacles we encounter so that we can learn from our mistakes. we can then learn from them and better prepare for future crises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on 22 january i asked the commission two specific questions about the contracts for the covid vaccines it signed on our behalf: why did the commission release the laboratories from all liability and who chose these vaccines? i received five lines on september 10th, but no specific answer. yet you had time to meet with the halal slaughter lobbyists on may 25 and the insect food lobbyists on october 28. you also received gilead and remdesivir lobbyists four times in one year, on july 6, september 9, december 7, 2020, and june 11, 2021. a billion euro contract for a drug not recommended by who and used by no one. again, i asked who made this decision and why gilead did not notify us that the results were not positive until the day after the contract was signed. is it right to ask who made this decision and, more importantly, why? does anyone have the right to know why you haven't been punished, either? i notice you didn't get the other labs, so why this one? the brussels administration is deciding on covid vaccines and medicines for all europeans, pfizer or moderna vaccines, rather than sputnik or chinese vaccines. but on what basis, exactly? we have a right to know. the europeans have a right to know, because no one voted for the president of the brussels administration, mrs von der leyen, or for her commissioners. but the lives of millions of french people and nations in europe are affected by your decision. i repeat, millions of french and european citizens have a right to know.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to illustrate the role of development policy in tackling the loss of biodiversity in developing countries in the context of the sustainable development goals, i would like to talk about the great green wall project, to which the european union is contributing €750 million per year until 2025. this african initiative to combat desertification, which involves replanting trees from dakar to djibouti, is in fact also an agroforestry project and also a project that meets the objectives of climate and biodiversity, eradication of hunger and poverty, local economic development, anticipation of conflicts and migration, etc. i went to senegal this summer to see how this is happening and i can testify that the objectives are not being met despite the effectiveness of some local projects. at the global level, there is urgency, commissioner: we have less than ten years to implement the 2030 sustainable development agenda and bring these 17 sdgs to life. to restore the objectives of marine and terrestrial biodiversity embodied in sdgs 14 and 15, for example, it is of course necessary to preserve, restore and manage sustainably, but it is also necessary to act on the other 15 sdgs. we always talk about the sdgs as a goal to be achieved, but we should much more look at them as the backbone of our public policies so that we can integrate them much more into our policies. in the face of a systemic problem, we need systemic responses, so i will vote for this report, madam rapporteur, and i thank you and your fictitious rapporteur, maría soraya rodríguez ramos, who was unable to be present for these debates today.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only support the philosophy which permeates this report and which corresponds to the ideal of localism, ardently defended by the national rally. it is the only relevant response to the challenge of global development and the preservation of biodiversity. however, europe, already strapped to draconian environmental constraints, cannot assume a world leading role. this is especially true now that china has sometimes been associated with projects that are harmful to the environment, whether in terms of fossil fuels, infrastructure or deforestation. we need look no further than my region in the far east to see the impact of the high demand for imported wood from china. secondly, it is true that agroecology has an underestimated economic potential; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is also urgent to mobilise new sources of sustainable development financing, beyond international aid alone. for example, the funds sent by migrants to their home countries reached $466 billion in 2017, or about three times the value of official development assistance. it's an under-exploited resource. in fact, the only way to look at european and western responsibility seems to me to be an approach that is far out of date, because in our multipolar world, our action will have little weight if it is not part of a global effort.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the protection and conservation of biodiversity is a key issue in the preservation of nature and its ecological functions. the areas of greatest genetic diversity are in developing countries, and the greatest losses are also there. the eu's responsibility for promoting practices which, while not serving the interests of the people, have contributed and continue to contribute to this reality is given limited scope in this report. the introduction of correct ethical principles in relations with third countries is in contradiction with the cynicism of the commodification of nature, the design of so-called 'best practices' and the imposition of a strong conditionality in access to development aid, with the aim of guaranteeing the domination of the resources of the peoples to feed the profits of capital. genuine development aid, based on effective cooperation and solidarity, requires the establishment of relations based on respect for the sovereignty and independence of states and directed not to profit but to satisfy the needs of the people, with a view to reducing dependencies and strengthening capacities, particularly in the productive field.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank commissioner urpilainen for her assistance in the launch of the sdg alliance here in parliament two weeks ago. i very much welcome the many references to the sdgs in ms rivasi’s report and to agenda 2030. it is very clear that the only way we will achieve policy coherence for sustainable development is if we can marshal the facts, if we have the data, and it is clear that we do not. i was very struck by a detail in a european parliamentary research service (eprs) report, which showed that the netherlands has lost 86% of its butterfly species since 1989. a small fact, but from which we can extrapolate the losses that have been experienced in the european union and across the globe. i think this is why it’s important that we have an annual report on implementation of the sdgs here in this parliament. it’s something that was done for the first time, and the last time, in 2019. we need to bring it back onto the agenda, to have an annual report on sdg implementation. so i commend the resolution. our success as a species has been at the expense of almost every other species, and it doesn’t have to be that way.
mr president, as the rapporteur has said, this report comes at a very good time, as the cop 15 on biodiversity starts this month. i would like to recall a few points about the objective of protecting 30% of land and sea by 2030. first, this objective only makes sense with a global network of protected areas with clear management plans and objectives. we need high-security encrypted targets to put an end to paper parks. moreover, these conservation objectives must not justify the violation of the rights of the people of developing countries. in addition, a decolonizing approach to conservation must be implemented, which puts indigenous peoples, local communities, farming and small-scale artisanal fishermen at the centre. finally, these conservation goals will only be ecologically whitening if we do not transform our trade rules and free trade agreements; our agricultural policies and banned pesticide exports to the south; fisheries agreements and subsidies to overfishing; extractive industries and their ravages on land and at sea; and our environmental policies. finally, our demand for products is driving the destruction of ecosystems. any development policy will be futile if we do not revise our economic model: its impacts on biodiversity and living conditions in developing countries are devastating.
on behalf of the band the left. mr. president, did you have fun? did you wear a provocative outfit? did you seek it out? was your love too passionate? these are the kinds of questions that police officers ask victims of sexual assault in french police stations, when they do not simply discourage them from filing a complaint, or even take advantage of them to flirt with them. the victims are treated as guilty and for these women, it's double the punishment. first they are brutalised by violent men, then they are again abused and humiliated by the very institutions that are supposed to protect them. how many women have not filed a complaint, discouraged by this institutional sexism? how many have chosen to remain silent for fear of insidious, guilt-inducing, sexist questions? from the police station to the courthouse, women's voices are routinely challenged, belittled, ignored even in the custody process, which forces nearly three-quarters of abused mothers to share parental authority, allowing abusive fathers to continue their strategy of intimidation, isolation and domination. we can't take this double punishment anymore. as the report calls for, it is essential to train police and judges, to increase the budget for the protection of victims and to take into account spousal violence in childcare. it is these failures of public policy that guarantee the impunity of the perpetrators. domestic violence will not stop as long as the police are sexist and the courts are complicit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the important vote in the last plenary on the inclusion of gender-based violence among the 'eurocrimes', which are particularly serious crimes for which the union can establish minimum standards for defining offences and sanctions, this parliament is once again speaking out on the sensitive issue of gender-based violence by the partner and its impact on children and custody decisions. we are not just talking about femicide, which is the most serious form of it. gender-based domestic violence manifests itself in many ways, from psychological to financial violence, in particular, but not only, in cases of economic dependency, and also has serious repercussions on children. a problem that has also been exacerbated in our country, italy, during the pandemic, with forced coexistence in confined spaces and which requires us, all the more, to act with a comprehensive strategy. the report stresses the importance of the istanbul convention and calls on those member states which have not yet done so to ratify it. we note that during the pandemic, violence against lgbt people has also increased. we demand that in court proceedings allegations of violence be examined before decisions on child custody are made and that custody is never shared in such cases, so as not to further increase contact with the abusive partner. we call for the regulation on decisions in matrimonial and parental matters, the so-called 'brussels 2 bis', to be extended to unmarried couples and also to same-sex couples, and for the member states to prevent the use in court proceedings of the 'parental alienation syndrome', which has no scientific evidence, to assess cases of violence or the suitability to care for children. we also point to the need to establish minimum standards at european level on how to conduct child hearings in a safe environment and with appropriately trained staff. we also call for broader measures, from more funds for the protection of victims, to their full access to protection systems, to a common european protocol to combat violence against women in times of crisis. and we stress the importance of a broad, really broad intervention that promotes gender equality and economic independence, education and sexuality education, the role of the media in fighting stereotypes. we must realise that gender-based domestic violence is still a scourge of our societies, far from being a legacy of the past, a scourge that must be eradicated by all means at national and european level.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, children who are beaten, humiliated, insulted, witness to scenes of violence, killed, are also victims of domestic violence, with serious consequences for their development and health, such as behavioural disorders and feelings of guilt, but also for their ability to socialize. in addition, direct and indirect victims are more likely to engage in violent behaviour in adulthood. too often we have separated domestic violence from domestic violence, without taking into account the needs of the victims: women and children. there is an urgent need to raise awareness and train more police and judges on domestic violence, as our current justice systems do not take into account the reality of domestic violence and fail to protect victims. let us then draw inspiration from the good practices of our member states. in spain, the speed of the procedures for the protection of women and children and the removal bracelets have proved their worth. in france, the government has made the fight against domestic violence a priority. for example, we have abolished parental authority and the obligation to provide support in the case of femicide. my dear colleagues, a violent man is not a good husband and a violent husband is never a good father. so let's protect the children, let's protect the women and let's deconstruct this patriarchy.
mr president, madam rapporteur, madam commissioner, the precautionary principle must be applied to the allocation of custody in the context of domestic violence. this is about putting the best interests of the child first and ensuring that the child is protected. the amendments and ideas i had proposed on children who are victims of domestic violence, the impact of this situation on their present and future behaviour and the need for psychological support have been incorporated into this text. i thank you for this and hope that we can raise awareness among the stakeholders of the need to do more in the interests of these children, but also of society, because they will be the future actors. as i have already mentioned, studies show a causal link between childhood exposure to domestic violence and the reproduction of this behavior in adulthood. while i support the vast majority of the proposals in this text, my delegation, in the name of national sovereignty, cannot allow the european union to interfere in the family and legal policies of nations. we believe that the union is not meant to interfere in the regulatory policies of the member states. that's why we're not going to vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, national legislation, in its codes, already regulates violent behaviour in an objective and non-discriminatory way. the union's interference in these matters is an interference with its sovereignty. laws must guarantee legal certainty and be based on a fundamental premise: we are all equal before the law, men and women. aggression knows no sex and violence is reprehensible in any case. a delicate issue like custody, which could mediate an assault, should be dealt with in a serious and rigorous legal manner. and not in this confusing way including various ideological concepts, without a precise meaning. they can lead to misinterpretations and wrong decisions with fatal consequences. this report proposes to judge on the basis of unproven evidence, subjective interpretations, always presuming the guilt... of the man, as if he were a criminal. but where is the right to the presumption of innocence? this is an abuse of justice that leads families to litigation, to confrontations that harm children for life, giving rise to a pile of unfounded allegations, while the real victims remain defenseless. the introduction of gender ideology into the rules causes the deconfiguration of the rule of law, introduces inequality and enmity between men and women and magnifies conflicts, fostering division in families and generating even more violence in society.
mr president, equality is one of the fundamental values and a basic objective of the european union, enshrined in all its treaties. gender-based violence is a violation of human rights in its own right and is not addressed in the same way in all member states. in fact, protection differs from one state to another. so the first thing to do is to ask for it to be part of the eurocrimes so that it has similar protection and the prosecution is total. it takes many forms - we know them - and it has consequences for the victims and all their families. children may be subject to witnessed violence, either directly or indirectly, which will undoubtedly affect their psychological and emotional development and their future. that is why, as the commissioner rightly said, the equation of a separation procedure must always be linked to the equation of a criminal procedure for ill-treatment. a bully can never educate. it's the opposite of values, it's the opposite of education and it's the opposite of being a good parent. that is why these two processes must be interlinked and, always taking into account the best interests of the child, custody and visitation rights must be monitored, this interest protected, to prevent the absence of values in this european union and to prevent an evil that is then irreversible. we also talk about information, we talk about awareness, but above all we talk about the future.
mr. chairman, colleagues, without any doubt, any violence must be prosecuted, punished and condemned. every single act of violence, no matter which gender is involved. but if you listen to you, you get the impression that men are the only rapists, that they are the only rapists, and that all men are rapists. you have every right to believe that, even if it can't be true. but i've heard it said several times that the best interests of the child were paramount. a child's best interests are best known to his parents, because they are the ones who created him, they gave birth to him, they educate him and raise him. it is their responsibility to do everything possible to keep the child in the family with his mother and father. it's very presumptuous for someone who doesn't have children to say on the sidelines what the parents' interests are, even more presumptuous than i would say. and finally, a word about the propaganda that is being uncovered here, because this debate is political, not legal. apart from interfering with the powers of the member states, which is completely unacceptable, the istanbul convention is constantly mentioned. our country, our constitutional court, has ruled that the istanbul convention is against our constitution and cannot be ratified. no matter how much you call, no matter how much you call, colleagues, it is not your job to change the bulgarian constitution. i'm sorry if you don't like it, but it's a fact. it's ours and we decide how to run our country!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, domestic violence, whether physical or psychological, in the family and in affective relationships, is one of the most widespread forms of gender-based violence, constitutes an unacceptable violation of women's dignity and rights and also dramatically affects children, sometimes directly through violence and infanticide, or indirectly in the case of violence by aided violence. but women and children do not always enjoy equal protection because of the diversity of national laws. it is therefore necessary to ensure greater protection for them by adding gender-based violence to the crime categories set out in article 83 of the treaty on the functioning of the union and to provide that domestic violence is to be taken as a priority and decisive criterion in the examination of cases in custody proceedings. ensuring the highest possible protection for women and children who are victims of domestic violence should not be just a political choice, because it is more than that. it is and must be a moral imperative for the whole union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this year marks the tenth anniversary of the istanbul convention. this text is fundamental, as it is the first binding international instrument to combat violence against women and children. however, 2021 is a sad anniversary for the istanbul convention: six member states have still not ratified it, one member state wants to withdraw from it and one candidate country, turkey, has withdrawn from it, even though it was the first signatory. how can these states move away from a text which specifies, for example, that psychological violence, harassment, physical and sexual violence, forced marriage and female genital mutilation must be punished? the european union committed to ratify the istanbul convention by signing it in 2017, but has not yet done so. is this still a priority for your commission? the european union must send a strong signal to the millions of women who are victims of violence. the attacks are not waiting: in france alone, 88 women have died since the beginning of the year. the last one was killed in front of her four children on september 29th. accession to the istanbul convention is a first step which must be followed by concrete responses and actions. i will therefore pay particular attention to the european legislative text that will be proposed by the end of the year to combat violence against women. i also want the union to draw up a special plan to prevent femicide, to identify situations of risk and to provide support and protection for victims. domestic violence is a tragedy that affects more than just the couple. they also have a major impact on children and the best interests of the child must always prevail, in particular with regard to custody and access rights. it must be given our full attention, with special and appropriate protection, as this report rightly states.
on behalf of the band the left. (beginning of the intervention outside the micro) on the rights of disabled people, their daily lives remain the path of the fighter, whether for integration into the world of work or access to school and justice, through all aspects of their daily lives, including their rights. disability is also seen in the eyes of others. yet, it is others who decide what their needs are. they do not ask for charity or pity, but for access to their rights, by actively participating in decisions that affect them: they want to be actors and not spectators. to do that, we also need to change our views. it is on these issues that our political divisions must be bridged and with this report we are laying the foundations of a house where it is written 'equity'. it has been far too long since the first string of validists cut the rope and it forces us to re-tie the knot. we can only be a society if every policy is adapted to the disabled. so let's unblock the anti-discrimination directive and do it now, right here. our challenge is to give the member states the keys and the legal framework so that disability policies are no longer blinded. for although the essential is invisible to the eyes and can only be seen with the heart, the border has never been a miracle, but a fair policy can change the lives of the most vulnerable.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, disability policy is a marker of the inclusive europe we want to build, in line with our motto 'united in diversity'. disability policy must be present in all our policies: employment, education, housing, transport, digital and, of course, health. the report we are about to vote on recalls that almost one in four europeans report a degree of functional limitation due to a health problem. chronic diseases such as diabetes or cancer can lead to a loss of autonomy. an ambitious health policy must be comprehensive, ranging from prevention efforts in physical and mental health to rehabilitation after a debilitating illness. this is also what we are advocating in the european plan to beat cancer and in the next report on the strategic framework for health and safety at work. yes, better prevention and better treatment are needed, but there is also a need to think about life with and after the disease: survivors too often face a difficult return to normal social, emotional and professional life.
mr president, european strategic autonomy is just words; it is a political commitment. to do something, you have to be able to break free from the united states. we are far from it, as this text shows, because, despite the events that have taken place, whether under president trump or president biden, we have not been able to get out of a kind of voluntary subordination, to the point that in this report we are silent or we minimize our disputes, our disagreements and our problems in the face of the united states defending its interests, while we, on the other hand, do not defend our own sufficiently. this is true in business and it's true in digital. a summit is announced in pittsburgh, but the united states is going against european interests on these issues. this text does not question nato's strategy and its failures in libya or afghanistan. he does not question the american strategy which humiliated the french and the europeans over the australian submarine affair. since biden's election, we've been like rabbits in the headlights: we don't see that there may have been a change of driver, but there has been no change of direction. so if we really want to be strategically autonomous, mr commissioner, we must draw the conclusions: wake up and be able to emancipate ourselves. we're not even close.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if you look at a world map and you mark the liberal democracies with which we share common values, and then you add the existing trade flows and then, as a third element, the security arrangements, then the close links between the eu and the us become particularly clear. if we want to keep them as our most important strategic partner in the long term, we have to do our homework. in the area of global security, we need to collectively assess who is threatening our way of living in freedom and democracy. we must make ourselves more attractive to the united states as a partner, an ally capable of acting autonomously in certain parts of the world and in certain situations, and able to assume its share of responsibility even when the united states is not present. at the moment, we appear more like allies in need. we can't afford to stay that way any longer. in the area of trade, we must exploit the full potential by first ending mutual sanctions, then looking at areas where mutual tariffs are being abolished, standards are being mutually recognised or harmonised in the future. the trade and technology council is certainly a suitable body for this. i would also like to see a free trade agreement with the united states in the not too distant future. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. only an alliance of democracies can meet the challenge of a totalitarian china and, in europe, of an aggressive russia in the long term.
mr president, europe and the united states must work together to meet major challenges. the first, the biggest and most urgent challenge is to combat global warming and the decline of biodiversity. it is therefore imperative that the us and european objectives be ambitious and achieved. we must work together to make this planet a better place to live. this requires fair international corporate taxation and a thorough review of the oecd rules on the exchange of tax information. in the face of the pandora papers, in the face of the profits of multinationals, what do we expect to put an end to the accumulation of wealth together, help each other in the ecological transition and move forward together towards a more just and sustainable world? because we share democratic and humanist ideals, the united states and europe must do their utmost to support rights in the world. let us stand up against the crimes against the uighurs and against the detention of political prisoners in egypt. however, we must not be blind to the violations of our own political regimes. in the interests of our common ideals, it is right that this parliament should this week urge texas to reverse its abortion law. it is also healthy not to look the other way when the us administration is considering a migrant centre in guantanamo. finally, while the us under trump and biden may not always support european interests, it still owes respect to its allies. the submarine case is unacceptable. the chaotic evacuation of afghanistan is a tragic reminder of this. let us draw practical lessons so that transatlantic relations can be more balanced and finally build a united and emancipated european foreign and security policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i talk about the future of relations between the european union and the united states, i would first like to thank the united states. the french people have seen through the united states the lack of loyalty of brussels and our european partners. the bnp bank was bailed out by the us for $9 billion, with no reaction from brussels. alstom energy, a pillar of our strategic independence, was stolen from us by the americans, with no reaction from brussels. according to the revelations of edward snowden, 70 million of our private conversations have been listened to by the americans. presidents hollande, sarkozy and chirac were spied on, with no reaction from brussels. thanks to the united states, the €56 billion contract with australia for the construction of submarines by the french is taken away from us, without any reaction from brussels. in the animal world, especially in the hen, one's place is determined by the beaks one gives and receives. but the france of the impotent presidents, the france of macron, is getting a lot of beckoning. even leaders in mali and algeria, between coups d'état, allow themselves to criticize us. de gaulle's france didn't take as many blows and it was returning many, but it also didn't pay for the health advice of mckinsey. but let's get to this report. of course, and i regret it, you're not talking about australian submarines. instead, you are calling for the creation of a "transatlantic parliament", an additional "machine", as the general would say, which would deal with, for example, "universal health coverage". while our health care system underfunds the dental coverage of the french, you want the french to pay for the whole world. finally, you praise our cooperation 31 times in this report on covid-19 and declare that global vaccination is the only way to end the pandemic: the only way! do not forget to congratulate the european medicines agency, which has just validated the third dose of pfizer, and especially pfizer, which has doubled its sales this year and will pocket $34 billion in profits, thanks in particular to the contracts in brussels.
mr president, mr high representative, as a portuguese and as a european i have to say: the united states is, and must continue to be, our priority partner. liberal democratic values, respect for human rights, but also market economy and prosperity, are western values common to europe and the united states. we cannot allow ourselves to be tempted by europe, which must defend its interests and assert itself in the indo-pacific, to do so without being in coordination with the united states. i know that there is a great temptation to make europe a new kind of non-aligned movement, a third way, halfway between the united states and china and russia. but let there be no, no doubt: if europe is no longer a preferred ally of the united states, it is the values of human rights and the market economy and prosperity that will be at stake. we must do everything to have a trade agreement and we must do everything to have a military and strategic partnership with the united states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, our relations with the united states are at a turning point. while the biden administration has often demonstrated a willingness to work with allies since taking office, a change of pace is needed to establish a partnership that can meet the challenges ahead. the positive signals, from the resolution of the boeing-airbus affair, which has so unfairly weighed on our agri-food producers, to the first meeting of the trade and technology council, must now be followed by concrete action on issues that can no longer be postponed, such as the achievement of lasting solutions for the aluminium and steel sectors. actions that will strengthen trade relations by strengthening the coordination of our priorities, such as the promotion of workers' rights, climate action, the management of technological transformation. we therefore need a new impetus in transatlantic relations so that common challenges can really be turned into opportunities for our citizens and our businesses.
mr president, mr high representative, in your report to the united states, the europe of 27 is too often compared to the three little monkeys of chinese tradition. especially, not to hear anything when three us presidents in a row, barack obama, donald trump and joe biden, are talking about pivoting to asia. mostly, not seeing anything when the u.s. leaves afghanistan because they're tired of being the world's policeman. especially not to say anything when washington is rude to its european allies, lest it be rude to them even more or, worse, that it is not interested. yet in recent weeks europe has managed to make its voice heard. after kabul, to learn from it and move towards european defence, as the president of the commission has proposed here, but also after the bad way in which australia and the united states have treated not only france but the whole of europe. what we need today is to strengthen the european pillar of nato and build a credible european defence. the united states now says it is in favour. it is up to us to stop closing our eyes and ears.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening transatlantic relations is important for europe and for the united states, and that is why i support this report. however, the optimism and the reporter's optimism about the coming of the new biden administration reminds me of the arrival of barack obama at the frivolous and undeserved awarding of the nobel prize and the unfulfilled expectations and i remind that ttip also failed just in the time of barack obama. president biden has made some very good decisions for the part of europe i come from, but his overall foreign policy has so far not proven very successful. the biggest problem with this policy, and the policy of the european globalists, is that they want to impose their worldview on other nations, and that's undemocratic and that ultimately always fails. in any case, the european union should not favour any american administration. it's not up to us to judge the will of the american people, but to adapt to it and find common ground with any american administration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what you can count on if you talk about the european-american lessons in this house is the hypocrisy of the populists in this house. the left is protecting the european defence industry in the australian issue and fighting any defence budget, any defence industries in europe. the right is giving up any kind of solidarity when french companies and france are losing a contract to which they have a right. it is hypocrisy and anti-americanism, and it serves just two purposes. let’s turn now a little bit to the substance. especially in regard to the newly established cooperation, the trade and technology council, we see an opportunity that could yield massive benefits for both the eu as well as the us, and we will remove barriers from trade and investment. however, the positive aspects of ttc affect not only our bilateral relations, the ttc will also allow us to set joint standards. it’s important to understand that, if we don’t join forces with the americans, chinese standards will rule. we won’t see a war, but we will see the domination and the will of the chinese to establish a rule on that, so we should work together. we have the potential to work together, and that’s an ambition we should all share.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu and the us have led the world in achieving climate neutrality by 2050. president biden has re-engaged the united states in the paris agreement. together, the eu and the us account for one fifth of emissions and one third of the world economy. we have a historic responsibility for emissions, and together we can and must make a difference to the climate. meanwhile, the united states has a long way to go. the infrastructure package for the bidens includes many climate measures, but the legislation is still not enough. it's time for the united states to start pricing emissions, especially in industry. it should be the next project in the u.s. green deal. our greatest security threat is the climate crisis, which we're currently experiencing. it fuels war, terror and conflict. that is why we must make our foreign policy climate-safe together with our transatlantic friends.
mr president, i would like to comment on the responsibilities of the european union and the us that we share at the global regulatory space. in the ongoing international technological race, it is our joint duty, with like-minded partners, to fly the flag of our democratic values and ethics while shaping common regulatory spaces. the world trade organization (wto) rulebook not only needs to reflect the world that we currently live in, but it also needs to adjust to the future challenges that await us. that is why finding a way to cooperate on reforming the wto should be amongst our most urgent priorities. integrating more open and inclusive plurilateral agreements into the multilateral architecture to ensure progress in areas not mature enough for full membership is a way to go. i agree with executive vice-president dombrovskis that a world without a functioning wto, with a fragmented trading system, would be a worrisome world. we stand in a rare window of opportunity where the european union and the us can set the foundations of the rules for tomorrow’s challenges. let’s seize it.
mr president, the eu—us transatlantic partnership – the renewed reinforced partnership – is opening a new chapter of closer bilateral relations following the election of joe biden. the eu and the us are the bedrock of the rules—based international order and champions of multilateralism, democracy and human rights. but we should also acknowledge the differences between the eu and the us, and that is only healthy in a long—standing friendship. a clear, self-confident strategic vision is then necessary. in that sense, the drafting of the eu strategic compass is an important step forward, and it should be accompanied with a more united, decisive foreign policy decision—making. an effective transatlantic relationship should focus on what we can do together – what we can do together as two strong partners sharing so much more than what divides us.
mr president, commissioner, the provisional agreement on the airbus-boeing dispute, the return to the negotiating table at the wto, the meeting of the trade and technology council: this would be the american return to cooperation. the arrival of joe biden is certainly good news for the climate, for the social, for the global challenges, but the transatlantic dialogue requires creating and maintaining trust for an ambitious and long-term partnership. but let's not kid ourselves, the united states is the united states. let's take a very clear example, extraterritorial laws. the effect of us sanctions on our companies dates back to the 1990s, long before donald trump, and the democratic administration may not change that. so our aim as europeans must be to equip ourselves with a powerful commercial legislative arsenal to defend our interests, particularly by countering the unilateral illegal measures of our partners. let us be clear: our strategic autonomy does not mean confrontation, but cooperation on an equal footing with the same weapons in the service of our interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, not so long ago, under the previous mandate, the two words 'european defence' were taboo. until very recently, the words 'strategic autonomy' were simply unknown to this assembly. today we adopt a report which says that 'the european union must pursue strategic autonomy in defence and economic relations' and that 'the atlantic alliance must become an alliance of equal partners'. so let's measure the distance traveled. let us realise that there is a real epistemological break in the history of the european union and that we are living through it. after the speech by the president of the commission, this report marks the opening of the first year of european defence, which is absolutely necessary and is the first step in establishing a european actor on the international scene.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr tonino picula, on his report on the future of eu-us relations, which is such an important and timely subject. important because close cooperation from trade to security was based on shared values, shared priorities and shared interests and so must continue and expand on issues captured in the report, such as climate change, human rights, digital transition, terrorism and more. however, as the us adjusts to its own priorities, our priority is to address the threats that exist from the caucasus to the eastern mediterranean. the strategic autonomy and european defence union, which some here have been talking about with foresight, are now a necessity because events in afghanistan and the pacific have overtaken us. finally, a few days ago we had the french-greek defence agreement, which can be a step on this great road to a europe with a common defence and security and a geopolitical role in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's relationship with the united states is undoubtedly very important to us. but, ladies and gentlemen, we are adults now and we must stand up for ourselves and have our own foreign policy. the main objectives of the european union must be our international priorities. we need a clear strategy. president biden, for some of us - i think for most of us - was an initial euphoria, but after a few months we are seeing that it is a big disappointment. the "america first" is going on. the european union cannot therefore sit back and wait, but we must seize the opportunity and set our own course in foreign policy, as well as in trade and defence policy. the united kingdom's departure is also having an impact on these relations. in short, we must have our own interests in europe and a clear strategy in international politics and also in transatlantic politics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr picula, thank you for your report. the transatlantic partnership is crucial to building an international order based on the shared values of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, but also to the new challenges of the green transition where we must make a joint effort. today, the global situation has changed, we all see it, and the transatlantic link has weakened. we've seen this in examples from previous us administrations, but also recent actions by the biden administration that will surely have an impact on our relations in the future. the european union, i agree, needs to strengthen its own capabilities to maintain strategic relevance in the international sphere. but we can't do it alone. i would like to take this opportunity at the end to highlight the recent lifting of the visa regime between the united states of america and the republic of croatia as a positive example of the development of transatlantic relations, expecting full visa regime and reciprocity to be established with the remaining member states of the european union. our partnership is strongest when we face great challenges together, and our shared past is a guarantee of close cooperation and a future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership with the united states is extremely important for the future of europe and for ensuring a climate of peace and stability in the world. the united states is not just a partner, but a strategic ally, with whom we share common democratic values, and with whom we must find solutions to security challenges, those generated by the pandemic, or new developments in the digital or environmental fields. to this end, cooperation with the united states and, in particular, with the new american administration, must be extended by identifying new methods of cooperation. but for this development of cooperation to be successful, it is central that all member states enjoy the same rights. that's why i'm asking again in the european parliament that romanians be able to travel to the united states without visas. this depends on the political will of decision-makers on both sides of the atlantic and is a right to full reciprocity, effectively guaranteed by european mechanisms. i am confident that the current international political context can allow this and that the partnership with the united states will enter a new period of development.
mr president, the transatlantic bond remains the bedrock of the free world. today, new totalitarian and authoritarian regimes are threatening our freedom, notably the chinese communist party (ccp). the ccp is oppressing its people and it is challenging our freedom and democracy around the world through hybrid threats. despite the naïve beliefs of some, there is no third way between standing with our allies and extending trade cooperation with a totalitarian regime. only by working together can we address the malign influence, protect freedom and democracy, and ensure our future prosperity. this is why i welcome the eu—us dialogue on china. we must also not forget about those whose freedom and dignity is denied every day. for this, an ambitious transatlantic democracy support agenda is absolutely vital. europe must do its part, and we must work together with our closest ally. only then can we address the greatest challenges we face today globally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken a great deal about marriage, but what is the secret of a happy marriage if not the equality of the spouses? but that is not the case. from the unilateral and chaotic withdrawal from kabul to the hijacking of the contract of the century at the expense of france, the us administration does not consult us, it does not consider us. donald trump was not just an accident, and america first was not just a passing slogan: it is the heart of american politics. the united states is pursuing its strategic interests and it is time for us europeans to do the same, to become adults, to assume autonomy and power. let's invest in our own defense capabilities. let us pursue a commercial policy that serves our principles and interests. let's show the americans that they need allies, not vassals. let's work together where our interests converge. let us fight together against climate change, international terrorism or the growing aggressiveness of the chinese regime. let's banish the products of uyghur slavery together. let us fight tax evasion worldwide together. but let us europeans give ourselves the means to defend our strategic interests alone if necessary. my dear colleagues, let us finally be respectable and we will be respected.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the commission and the council on the eu health emergency preparedness and response authority: ensuring a coordinated eu approach to future health crises and the role of the european parliament in this regard (2021/2916 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, although there is much we can be proud of in the european union’s response to the covid—19 crisis, we must not ignore the fact that we, like the rest of the world, were not sufficiently prepared. we cannot let this happen in the future, and we need to take a more proactive approach to protect our citizens. the scale of the health emergency provoked by the pandemic highlighted the need for greater cooperation among countries. the common eu vaccines strategy and the digital green certificate are good examples of this successful cooperation at union level. drawing lessons from the current pandemic, the european union engaged in a process to reinforce its resilience to future cross—border health threats, and we are convinced that this was the right decision. as the presidency, we included strengthening the resilience of the european union as one of our main priorities. in the area of health, the slovenian presidency has been focusing on building a european health union. together with the european parliament, we have been working constructively on the first blocks of this union. we have started the negotiations on strengthening the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control and have progressed quite well in negotiations on the european medicines agency. we hope to engage soon in negotiations on the proposal regarding serious cross—border threats to health. we count on the constructive cooperation of the european parliament so that we can conclude negotiations as soon as possible and move to the implementation of the legislation. stronger operational agencies and a more robust cooperation framework to face health threats are essential. the latest proposal from the commission providing for the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) constitutes an important addition to the european health union. hera can strengthen health security coordination within the eu, address strategic dependencies and bolster the global health dimension. the presidency shares the ambition as regards the wide tasks of hera, including threat assessment, intelligence gathering, addressing market challenges, taking emergency measures on procurement, the manufacturing and purchasing of medical countermeasures, leveraging research and innovation plans, and distributing emergency funding. the commission has decided to establish hera as an internal service, which enables it to be operational immediately, while benefiting from the regulatory, technical and organisational tools of the commission. so far, the council has not discussed this aspect. at the same time, the council has just started the examination of the related proposal on a framework of measures for ensuring the supply of crisis relevant medicinal countermeasures in the event of a public health emergency at union level. we need some time to analyse it thoroughly. before i conclude, let me reiterate that the presidency is fully committed to the common goal of improving the union’s preparedness for future crises, and we will do our best to bring the related work forward.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am pleased for the opportunity to be in plenary today to discuss hera after the debate last monday in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), as this really provides another opportunity to explain, to clarify and to build together with you a path forward. i want to begin today by underlining two points which make hera stand apart. first and foremost, its urgency. hera is needed now, to close the gaps in our preparedness, our anticipation and our responses to health crises. for this health crisis, but also for future ones. secondly, the fact that hera will only succeed if it drives a consensus on health preparedness at all levels across the eu, and it is absolutely clear that the european parliament must be part of this. our close cooperation throughout the covid-19 emergency and on the european health union proposals has been pivotal and central to our successful response to the worst public health crisis in memory. last monday, i appeared before the envi committee to explain that hera is not a typical commission structure. it is our shared resource between european institutions and member states. it is the place where the necessary coordination between national actions and eu actions will be brought together. it is a place for fast, operational decisions, for foresight, anticipation and the coordination of preparedness and response, and to achieve this, we need an innovative set-up. our traditional tools would not be able to meet the expectations of european citizens. parliament will be integrally involved in both preparedness and crisis times, through its participation in both the hera board and the health crisis board. it is unprecedented that the european parliament is directly involved with an internal commission structure. the european parliament representatives will have full access to all the information exchanged, and will help to shape the preparation and the implementation of hera actions. hera’s budget of course will be subject to the scrutiny of the european parliament as the budgetary authority. but we need to make sure that the voice of the parliament is heard early in this process as well, and with all this in mind, i can only repeat that saying that the parliament has been excluded, is difficult to understand if one takes all the above into account. i have heard the voices of those saying that the health union proposals should be held back, should be delayed and amended to achieve a different governance structure for hera. honourable members, our citizens have seen throughout this crisis the very responsible and citizen-focused stance taken and this is what they expect now. i have listened to you carefully and i continue to listen carefully and i believe we all agree on hera’s objectives and ambition. i believe we all agree that this pandemic is still with us and we have no time to lose. the health union proposals must move forward quickly and as soon as possible. holding them back or holding hera back, will have a significant impact on what all of us have been trying to build together. in fact we are all accountable to european citizens who expect a stronger europe in the area of health and a stronger europe in dealing with health crises. i am proud to say that hera started its work last friday officially and will be fully up and running early next year. a small team is already in place and the first meeting of the hera board took place last friday. i very much look forward to the appointment of the european parliament’s representative on the board. i wish to take the opportunity to clarify one critical element here. our proposal for a regulation on a framework of measures to be triggered by a health crisis is separate from the set-up and governance of hera. with the covid-19 pandemic, we have had to invent new instruments and to set up ad hoc solutions. we have tried to identify what could have made our response to covid-19 more efficient. it is key to think about this in advance – every minute counts in a situation like the pandemic. with our crisis mode proposal, our goal is to make mobilisation of extra tools and resources easier and more automatic. the legal base for a council regulation was chosen after careful legal assessment and there was no other viable option to mobilise emergency funding. i fully understand that parliament sees the need to review what has been proposed and this is why we include a review clause, both for hera and for the draft council regulation, but to be able to review something, we need first to give it the chance and see it operate. i am fully committed to involving parliament closely in this review process and its outcomes. honourable members, hera is our common response to a crisis and the crisis has shown what we need to do better for our citizens, and the health union proposals are the foundation for hera. delaying them will only impact on our efforts to work more closely together and to exit this pandemic. setting up hera as soon as possible stems from one conviction, and a conviction i believe you share with us: namely, that we must waste no time in responding to the ongoing threats of covid-19 and other emerging public health threats. we simply must make this investment in our citizens’ health without delay and i count on your support for that.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, dear stella, the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) is a key part of our pandemic response and of our european health independence. its tasks are highly anticipated: anticipation, support for innovation, group purchasing, support for industrial production, prevention of shortages of medicines: it has it all. good for you. i have already expressed to you - and you were kind enough to listen - our disappointment that we are not involved in the construction of this great project, which we support. reducing the role of the european parliament to an observer on a crisis committee is not in keeping with the spirit of cooperation that has been with us since the beginning of this pandemic. what we have achieved, we have achieved together. you have heard in this house our calls for a coordinated european response and a health budget. we have joined forces on the health pass and you have responded to our request for transparency by creating a vaccine contact group. the role of parliament should not and cannot be confined to approving hera's budget, especially without being involved in its preparation. we want hera to give civil society as much prominence as it does the industry. we want to be involved in its governance, to guide its actions in the name of parliament, that is, in the name of the citizens. we want hera to become an integral part of the crossborder threats regulation, to which it is closely linked and which will make it possible to speed up its implementation. in short, we want to continue to ensure the coherence, transparency, coordination and unity of our common european health policy.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i have listened to you, but you do not hear. i'm in my third term. we have fought endlessly at the level of the european parliament to be always associated with the functioning of europe. we stand for the european union and in the context of this pandemic, which has affected us all, we were aware that everything was urgent and we all fought together to build a health union at european level. we have done everything possible with my colleague buşoi to have eu4health. we fought for a budget for health and we knew that we needed innovation and that is what the commission proposed, by creating this agency called hera. hera is supposed to be an agency, as you said, for preparedness and for responding to emergencies. now the commission is coming to us with a proposal to make hera an internal service of the commission, an appendage of the commission. and what are we, the co-legislators, going to do? the budget of €6 billion will have to be voted on. and then we will have, as my colleague said, an observer post. so, one parliamentarian to discuss, to know the orientations, the mandate and the governance. so, commissioner, you attended the meeting of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on monday and you saw that not all the political groups accepted your proposal. we need to be partners. you talk about the credibility of the european union, but credibility is a joint effort and it is not obvious, this agency. we must discuss it, we must build it, it must be transparent. so, commissioner, i would ask you to reconsider your proposal.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, commissioner breton calls for an end to naivety in the field of industry and the development of european industrial policy. i would ask you, on behalf of my group, to do the same in the field of health. the hera agency, whose place in the eyes of the members of parliament is still uncertain in view of its undemocratic development, has all the parameters of a failure announced with regard to the europe of health. first, its extreme naivety, which consists in thinking that a civilian agency can be set up by imitating the american paramilitary agency barda by rapidly editing various civilian texts. they are all redundant and share the same concerns, namely inventory management, shortage management and data banks, and all want their own funding. none of them is responsible for giving an effective alert or for operating the shortest possible circuits between the states and the european union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. in the meantime, this is a false appearance that makes europeans think they will be protected. the european union is also committed to the development of a european strategy for the prevention of the spread of the virus.
for the left. madam president, commissioner, i am fundamentally opposed to the establishment of hera as either a separate agency or a department within the commission. i believe that this task should have been entrusted to the ecdc and it seems to me that hera is merely usurping the powers of the ecdc. the proposal is to provide an assessment of cross-border health threats. and i ask, does the ecdc not provide these assessments? isn't that the primary reason for her existence? so what exactly is the added value of hera? besides, where are the employees coming from to work in this new department? the number of experts in this field in europe is not large. so is the commission going to steal staff from its own dg sante or from the ecdc or the ema? another scandal is the way the commission has cooperated with the european parliament. the creation of such an important body by means of a council regulation is very unfortunate, does not help to clarify the situation and does not indicate good interinstitutional relations. unfortunately, this ill-advised approach will only force us to respond to the hera proposal in a different way, by changing the mandate of the transboundary health threats regulation. colleagues, yes, many of our citizens are following the health care system, but it cannot be run as a cabinet legislation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is doing very well in the fight against the pandemic. we have the highest vaccination rate in the world, and we've been successful together. but we had three difficult months earlier this year. there was too little vaccine and too late for many eu citizens. this was due to export bans by other countries. it was because pfizer had crossed the line on liability. and it is good that the commission has remained firm. but it was also because we didn't have anything like the hera. the americans had barda and therefore were able to produce more vaccine faster. that is why we in parliament have said by a large majority that we want something like us-barda. and we also want the cooperation of private companies and public institutions. biontech's vaccine is a worldwide smash hit, and it's taking us out of the pandemic. the eu, national funds and private capital have contributed to this, and this should have been awarded the nobel prize in medicine. that's why we need something like the americans. and that is why we, as the epp, are in principle in favour of hera. but we see the democratic deficit. that is why we are proposing that we accept the hera, but for a limited period of time, and then we will have to go through the ordinary legislative procedure with parliament as co-legislator - so we will not waste time, but we will fight for a democratic solution.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commissioner is not here. the new crisis preparedness unit, hera, is an important step towards a common health union, and the european commission is taking a step in the right direction. the predecessor, the hero incubator, has played an incredibly important role this spring in ensuring that policy, research, business are coordinated in the work against covid-19 variants, and in the same way hera will now play the important role, for example by ensuring common stockholding, procurement of critical medicines and so on. but at the same time we see in the s&d group a missed opportunity. the threat of new pandemics will hang over our society for a long time to come. the silent pandemic, antibiotic resistance, is also in danger of rapidly worsening. we need long-term, sustainable structures. we could have sharpened and improved the proposal in the european parliament. it is therefore very strange and damaging to the legitimacy of herat that the european parliament is not invited to the negotiating table. the negotiations on the eu covid-19 certificate have shown that we can act both quickly and in the long term. as i have said before, on our part, s&d supports all initiatives to further strengthen hera's mandate in the negotiations on cross-border health threats. stopping pandemics is far too important to leave citizens out.
madam president, commissioner, fifteen years after the creation of barda in the united states, europe is also equipping itself with its own anti-virus weapon with the establishment of this next health emergency authority (hera) and this is excellent news, even if i join all my colleagues in their demand that the european parliament be brought back to the negotiating table: hera must be a joint project. with barda and warp speed, the united states has shown its ability to deploy rapidly, even extremely rapidly, to conduct clinical trials in the background, while building the capacity to develop and produce vaccines and drugs. and it is this missing link that hera wants to fill: anticipating risks, supporting innovation, developing the tools and production capacities. for the sake of the patient, our dependence on asia must cease. it is imperative and it will only be achieved by developing in europe a culture of results which we so often lack. it is essential to give the highest priority to the availability of vaccines and above all treatments, whatever the cost.
i have to say, madam president, the eu needs stronger cooperation in the field of health. the question is not why, but how to strengthen our health union. what have we learned from the eu's handling of the situation so far? we've learned that vaccines bought in the eu work, and thank you for that. we have spent billions of euros, but have scandalously little control over how. and then we have a system that holds the industry in its hands, with conflicts of interest and no requirement for transparency in research, manufacturing and pre-purchase agreements. no transparency on public funding of companies, on vaccine prices and sales revenue, costs of clinical trials, etc. and then the global solidarity is minimal. but the european commission's latest move on the eu's health emergency response authority is not the answer to those challenges. and it needs to fundamentally change from being an industry to being a healthcare collaboration. let us now think big and establish a european infrastructure for the production of medicines and vaccines. let's prioritize competent, nonprofit pharmaceutical companies over commercial ones. let's work with non-profit research institutions and civil society. and let us ensure that poorer countries can quickly get at least adequate vaccine programmes under way. all this with the highest degree of transparency, democratic control and demands on our industrial partners. let me also say to mrs pernille weiss that this is not an agency. i wish it was. but it is only a power, a power within the commission. the commissioner has also said that explicitly just now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to establish a new european agency for health strategy is a testament to the flagrant failure of the eu's covid management. on the other hand, the ecdc's inability to deal with the pandemic, the shameful censorship of vaccine contracts, the unjustified increase in their prices and the ema's continuous changes of mind on their authorization are clear evidence of the total inadequacy and opacity of the policies adopted. let me be clear: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. this choice is a further step in the direction of the lobbies which, thanks to secret agreements with the eu, have already made tens of billions of euros from covid, with huge profit margins to the detriment of the citizens' portfolios. so it is legitimate to ask whether your objective is to put big pharma at the service of the health of the people or, rather, the health of the people at the service of big pharma.
madam president, commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, on 16 september we read the european commission's copy of the new european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera). the interest of such a structure should have been twofold. on the one hand, as president ursula von der leyen said in 2020, it should have been about creating a research and development agency, as exists in the united states, with real public-private cooperation. on the other hand, it was a new opportunity to affirm the creation of a genuine europe of health, that is to say, to confer a genuine competence for health cooperation and coordination on the european union. unfortunately, in both cases the objective is not achieved. what is the point of advertising that we are following the example of the united states, when the budget allocated is in the end half that and it is only an internal service of the commission? what is the point of building a health union if parliament, the only institution elected by direct universal suffrage, is confined to a mere observer role? commissioner, i have heard your budgetary and operational justifications. but i'm not convinced. as for the dismissal of the european parliament, i have heard no justification. however, i would like to point out that it is thanks to the european parliament that the budget for europe's health system is three times as large as the one originally proposed by the member states. so yes, parliament must be fully involved, we must continue to work together to build an efficient, democratic and transparent europe of health for our citizens.
madam president, commissioner, a year ago the president of the commission announced the creation of a new european agency to deal with future pandemics, along the lines of barda in the united states. this agency was called hera. today, the ambitious hera is transformed into an internal service of the commission, a technocratic tool. but, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refer to greek mythology, because today i feel betrayed. betrayed like hera by her husband zeus, betrayed in ambition and in method. a decision without appeal has been taken and you have chosen to exclude the european parliament. it should be remembered that for the past year and a half this parliament has been fighting for the health of citizens, for more ambition, more action and more transparency. commissioner, we have worked together throughout this crisis as partners. how can we explain the fact that today president von der leyen has decided to exclude the representatives of the european citizens?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking today whether the public money paid by the european union to turkey is being used and controlled properly. the answer is no. progressively, secular turkey, which was an ally of the free world, has become, let us say, an imperialist-minded, proselytizing islamic country. we see this on the international scene with neo-ottoman policies and even here at home, when mr erdoğan's regime is trying to exploit the turkish diasporas in our countries politically. it is the same turkey, always looking for a show of force, which develops unfriendly attitudes when it does not directly threaten members of the european union, especially in the mediterranean. what about its ambiguous stance in the fight against terrorism? we europeans, who were wrong to outsource the control of our migration policy to him, are now the object of a large-scale blackmail with the threat of our submersion. a financial and political blackmail, a blackmail that no power can accept. the european union has been outraged by belarus' use of the migration weapon against its european neighbours, notably lithuania. sanctions were immediately considered by the european union. why this firmness with belarus and this complacency with turkey? why continue to finance a partner who is not one at a loss and pursue an increasingly anachronistic accession process?
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of cybersecurity, the political rules and convictions that drive us are not shaken by this new field of possibilities. contrary to what the rapporteur claims, the cross-border nature of new technologies is not an argument to justify either a community leap forward which erases nations or a new transfer of competences at european level. whether civilian or military, the developers of successful computer technologies, whether american or chinese, as the most advanced powers in this field, have relied on state structures to become the giants we know today. the european union is not a state but a plurality of nations, and europeans are not a people but peoples. the field of cybersecurity is no exception to this reality. by limiting national state structures throughout europe, the european union is paralysing possible developments in cooperation. as with many issues, the commission sees the state of the european union's cyber defence capabilities as an opportunity to move towards greater submission of nations to a european defence policy, still under nato's umbrella. no, we do not want to build a european defence union in the field of information technology, as the report wants. we do not want the european commission to have an ever-greater grip on these strategic issues. defence, whether physical or digital, is a matter of national sovereignty, an inviolable prerogative of the member states. it is up to them to develop their tools, choose their alliances and set their priorities. the choice of cooperation is theirs: it must not and cannot be imposed by technocrats who are detached from all reality.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020, more than 700 cyberattacks targeted strategic sectors in europe, 75% more than in 2019, and this is just the beginning. we must learn to defend ourselves collectively and impose a cost on those who attack us. less than two weeks ago, i visited the european cybersecurity agency in athens with a delegation from the special committee on foreign interference in the eu's democratic processes, including disinformation. the agency is doing a remarkable job, but it lacks resources in the face of the enormity of the task. more resources, more training of experts, more coordination between member states, more awareness among private and public actors in europe: we know what needs to be done to create a true european cybersecurity. but protections won't be enough; we need a deterrent. we must identify and then publicly name the aggressors, and first of all the russian and chinese regimes, and show them that we are not attacked with impunity: it is time to dissuade those who want to shake us up.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ethiopia is one of the first christian countries in history. it is one of the pivotal countries in the horn of africa. it is also a key link in the chain of migratory dangers facing europe. that is why the fate of ethiopia has always interested european nations. this is why the international community must be particularly careful, especially when it has rushed to award the nobel peace prize to prime minister abiy ahmed a few months after his election. it is true that in recent years the awarding of the nobel peace prize to warmongers has tended to become a custom. in the case of ethiopia, our recklessness is certainly even more culpable. abiy ahmed decided to wage a fierce battle against tigray province when it refused to postpone the parliamentary elections on november 4th. since then, the constant assaults by government forces on the region have been marred by numerous war crimes. the christian heritage, so prolific in the tigray region, is particularly at risk. ethiopian monks were reportedly even massacred. this is already a shocking observation, but it is made worse by two other things. first, abiy ahmed himself admitted that he had asked the eritrean army for help to invade northern ethiopia. this army multiplies the massacres and defends the interests of one of the most closed states on the planet. secondly, ethiopia is now a very fragile country, as other ethnic hotbeds of dissent from central power are emerging. but between the islamist hotbeds in somalia and sudan and the turkish influence in the region, the worst is to be feared in terms of migration and security for the whole of the horn of africa and tomorrow, perhaps, for europe.
madam president, the civil war in ethiopia is ongoing for almost a year. while the ethiopian government’s forces and the tigray people’s liberation front continue to fight each other, the people of ethiopia are suffering. the united nations have recently rung the alarm bell by stating that more than 400 000 people are living in famine at the moment. humanitarian aid workers are unable to reach these people and some reports even state that they have been prevented from operating. even the eu has tried to reach those in need, but only with partial success. i deeply regret the decision of the ethiopian government to expel the seven united nations officials, and call on all sides to immediately resume cooperation with international organisations. i also strongly condemn the deliberate targeting of civilians by all the belligerent parties. history knows many examples of ethnic conflicts around the world, including in our immediate proximity, and history teaches us that the best way to solve these conflicts is by dialogue and tolerance. i strongly urge all parties involved to cease the violence and to find the way to a diplomatic solution to this senseless loss of lives.
madam president, commissioner, since 6 july, when we discussed the situation in tigray in this house, the conflict in this region of ethiopia has worsened, the humanitarian situation has deteriorated and the reports coming to us from the ground are deeply worrying and frightening. according to the latest available data, there are currently more than five million people in a state of extreme hunger and there are reports of mass killings which must be urgently investigated and treated as war crimes. i would remind you that addis ababa was the first capital to which the president of the european commission travelled after her election, signalling her desire to affirm a geopolitical commission. i believe that the situation in tigray now justifies, commissioner, a political and diplomatic mission of the european union on the ground to supplement humanitarian aid. i encourage you to get it going. ethiopia must urgently return to the rule of law in strict compliance with the cotonou agreement to which it is a party. the european union, which has ethiopia as the largest beneficiary of its emergency trust fund, must continue to work to raise awareness among the parties to put an end to this escalation of violence and its tragic consequences. i would like to conclude by calling on the parties to the conflict to agree to an immediate ceasefire and to take measures to restore peace in the country.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for this discussion which, at least from my perspective, has highlighted very well how complex this crisis is, and also stressed the need for immediate and unhindered humanitarian access and for respect of international humanitarian law. in the same way, collective action and pressure are needed to stop the conflict and prosecute perpetrators of human rights violations. given the continuous deterioration of the conflict, we are considering further options to put pressure on all parties. these potential measures range from diplomatic engagement to willingness to consider sanctions linked to international humanitarian law or human rights violations. i think the geopolitical dialogue we are going to have on monday with the committee on foreign affairs (afet) and the committee on development (deve) also gives an opportunity to continue this discussion. a presidential statement in the framework of un security council resolution 2417, which condemns the use of starvation as a method of warfare, should also be considered, but i thank you for this discussion and am looking forward to continuing our discussion on monday.
in writing. the tigray crisis highlights the contrast between the enthusiasm in the western world for the election of abiy ahmed ali (winner of the 2019 nobel peace prize) and the reality of the situation in ethiopia, marked by unchangeable ethnic divisions and the persistence of extreme poverty. as for ethnic dissensions, it is the ousting of the tigrayans from the spheres of power with the ascension of this oromo statesman who initially was a figurehead of discord, before this conflict became open and armed, punctuated by bloody executions. as regards the economy, the growth figures have been able to hide the poverty of a large part of the population, which also fuels international trafficking in human beings. we had discussed this in plenary about ethiopian migrants who had been held in saudi jails for some time. more than two million ethiopians were internally displaced in 2020. having visited one of the camps housing these people myself, i can only deplore the continuation of this humanitarian tragedy, with no obvious outcome. in short, ethiopia is a focus of the difficulties of so many african countries, and to which only national responses seem relevant. thank you.
rapporteur. – madam president, i hereby present the report on the arctic, describing opportunities, concerns and new security challenges. this report was adopted in the committee on foreign affairs (afet) by a vast majority of votes. allow me to start with acknowledgements. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work, and also the advisory staff of all political groups for their long and very comprehensive work on this report. i would like to also especially thank my own staff. last, but absolutely not least, my predecessor, the former rapporteur of the european parliament on the arctic, urmas paet, for the excellent cooperation. quite recently – actually one week ago – we were able to complete the first physical afet mission to the region after covid—19. it was extremely interesting, adding to our already quite comprehensive knowledge, after which i decided to table one amendment comprising expertise that was provided to us, during this mission by scientists, located in nuuk, in the centre of greenland. we were there discussing with them and assessing also other topics, the scientific environment and also knowledge—based findings about arctic. allow me to start with presenting the obvious statement that we want to preserve the arctic as an area of considerable low tension and of fruitful cooperation of the international community. in the chapters of this report we start by points referring to this – the importance of international cooperation as the bedrock for the development, prosperity and keeping of peaceful cooperation. we here indicate the fundamental role of the arctic council and the responsibility of those states, although we end our report with a very special chapter named in a somehow slightly journalistic or marketing manner: ‘more eu in the arctic and more arctic in the eu’. certainly, by this debate, we are providing for the last part of this sentence. we want, after a considerably short time, to update the european parliament’s position on the arctic, precisely because of our concerns in many areas. the big role we indicate in the report for climate change, we think that an ambitious response to this and keeping the protection of environment, as well as all other pillars of fundamental eu policy vis—à—vis the arctic, is extremely important. we acknowledge that what is happening to the arctic, the very visible effects of climate change there have been predominantly created elsewhere, outside of the region, and therefore there is a need for the international community to look into concerns and also our findings concerning the arctic. we put very high in our deliberations the role of sustainable development, of the responsible use of the riches of the arctic, also to the benefit of local communities, in particular indigenous people, in accordance with the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and on our own documents adopted by the eu. we put very high on the agenda changes in the security situation of the arctic, in particular the military build—up and military pressure of the russian federation – there is a special part dedicated to this – but also the increasing role of china. because of the melting of the ice cap, there is more possibility for navigation and keeping freedom of navigation is extremely important in our deliberation. i look forward to the debate and i will speak once more towards the end.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, today’s debate is a timely opportunity to confirm the importance of the eu’s continued engagement in arctic matters. on behalf of the commission and the high representative, josep borrell, i would like to thank ms fotyga for her timely report, which stresses the point just as clearly as the joint communication which will be issued on 30 october. i am very glad to note that your arctic team and ours have been in very close contact. it is true that the arctic is attracting renewed attention from scientists, as well as from think-tanks and, now, security analysts because of its key role in local and global climate change, its abundant resources on land, at sea and under the seabed, the increasing interest in arctic sea lions, as well as connectivity, cables and, in a nutshell, the geopolitical importance of these extremely vast regions. but we must also remind ourselves that the people living across the arctic region do not see this area as a newly discovered part of the world. they have lived here for centuries and they know the turf quite well. the european parliament report reaffirms that the arctic is of strategic and political importance for the eu as an arctic stakeholder and also as a global actor. it underlines the eu’s commitment to being a responsible actor, seeking the long—term, sustainable and peaceful development of the region by fully cooperating with international partners. allow me to highlight a few points of relevance. first, the eu is in the arctic not for convenience, but out of necessity. many of the challenges facing the arctic regions call for regional and multilateral cooperation. this goes for the work to clean up litter from the ocean, to safeguard fish stocks and to drive forward a transition from hydrocarbons to carbon—neutral production and transport systems while, of course, at the same time, enhancing the attractiveness of living, working and thriving in arctic regions. second, the eu is well placed to engage in regional and multilateral efforts across the arctic, for instance in science and research, in space—based capabilities (which is extremely important), and in the fight against climate change. we see a need to work with all arctic partners, as well as interlocutors from outside who already take an interest in arctic affairs – china, india, japan, etc. – and those who are only indirectly important for the arctic region. here we might think of asean, the african union, etc. some discussion will, of course, demand courage and willingness to be bold, and we need to be frank about the importance of keeping oil, gas and coal in the ground in arctic regions too. global demand for hydrocarbons must be reduced and, of course, this has to be done cautiously. furthermore, we also need to be in close contact with the local inhabitants, including indigenous people, about the growing need for critical materials. we must preserve the resources in the ocean to be able to use them. in a nutshell, we also need to be clever about the risk posed by tourism and possible accidents. so let me close by saying that i really look forward to working with you on this very important and comprehensive agenda.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, two weeks ago, as anna fotyga mentioned, the delegation of our foreign affairs committee visited denmark, greenland and iceland to discuss international cooperation and challenges in the arctic. anna fotyga, željana zovko, urmas paet and andreas schieder will probably agree; our visit demonstrated that the unique complexity of the challenges on the ground requires more engagement and solutions based on the knowledge and the will of the people living in the arctic. furthermore, there is an urgent need for constructive international cooperation to counter emerging threats to stability in the entire high north. for this reason, i welcome the adoption of our timely report. let me thank anna fotyga for her good work and i do hope, commissioner breton, that the commission and the high representative / vice—president will soon present an ambitious new joint communication which takes our main messages into account. these are: to respond ambitiously to climate change and safeguarding the arctic environment, to promote sustainable development and to strengthen international cooperation in order to address all the geopolitical challenges in the high north. the foreign affairs committee will keep the arctic high on its agenda. yes, indeed, there should be more eu in the arctic and more arctic in the eu.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, rapid climate change in the arctic causes environmental, social, economic and also security challenges. the melting of the ice cap creates new passageways, allows access to natural resources and therefore increases strategic competition opportunities and also potential risks in the region. it is in the interests of all active in the region to maintain a stable environment in the arctic by cooperation and coordination. the eu needs to be constantly aware of these rapid changes in the arctic and needs to have a new arctic policy. i am looking forward to the joint communication from the commission on the new arctic strategy that will be released on 13 october. the eu has a clear role in fighting climate change and in advancing sustainable development, but it is necessary to be engaged also in matters of security, taking into account russia’s active militarisation in the region. it means a clear vision on the role of the eu in security matters and an acknowledgement that cooperation in arctic matters is the key with arctic countries, within the eu and also with nato. the european union must also continue to strive for official observer status in the arctic council. and, of course, we cannot forget indigenous people. finally, i think that the eu should also open a permanent representation both in greenland and in the faroe islands.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear rapporteur and colleagues, thank you for your cooperation on this. the climate crisis threatens the whole existence of the arctic nature and its people. in my home, northern finland, we already see the changes and the further north we go, the worse it gets. species are disappearing and so is the deep ice that protects our planet. now the parliament has in its hands a brilliant opportunity to contribute to the forthcoming new eu policy on the arctic and send a message. but i am afraid that we’ve failed to do that. the arctic is essential for our future in every aspect. it cannot be just a natural resource reservoir for europe, for china or anyone else. we cannot support such a message that we should exploit these natural resources for our own benefit. the arctic is not a playground for business opportunities. instead, our duty to the arctic and its people is to end environmentally harmful practices that destroy the arctic ecosystems, inhabitants and species. if we exploit this area now, we will pay a heavy and deadly price in the future. our goal has to be a peaceful arctic region where matters are resolved through international cooperation and with the participation of locals and indigenous peoples, a region that is protected in the way that it should be.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, one of the greatest flaws of this parliament is that it is a prisoner of its obsessions. there is so much to be said about the arctic: the effects of globalisation on shipping, the preservation of biodiversity, the need to maintain cooperation between the arctic nation states. unfortunately, our parliament is not for that. once again, we are used to justify the symbolic and military investment in nato. the eu's interest is rather to encourage our nations to develop strategic relations with beijing and moscow in this part of the world, which is one of the last where we still have a peaceful dialogue with these two partners. who can seriously believe that the european union is in a position to dictate the conduct of the countries directly bordering the arctic ocean? who can believe for a moment that nations would gain by going through brussels to defend their specific interests in this region? no one did. once again, our parliament is distinguished by a report which is completely indifferent to the principle of reality. it is not good for our trade, nor is it good for our continent.
the european parliament has been very active in the fight against climate change, and it has been very active in the fight against climate change, and it has been very active in the fight against climate change. i am glad that the report drawn up by my colleague, mrs anna fotygová, describes this with great precision and attention to detail, and i would therefore like to support this report. it mentions various important details, such as how the melting of the arctic permafrost is a risk factor for both environmental and health. it also mentions the growing interest of russia and china in the region and finally its energy importance, that is, the deposits of oil, natural gas and minerals. it is therefore important that the legal framework and international commitments to the region are maintained and that the european union is also more involved in the region.
madam president, the recent committee on foreign affairs (afet) mission to the arctic in which i took part showed us how important and sensitive this region is. our chair already underlined the importance of our mission and the great success that we had in meeting local people and having a clear knowledge of what the arctic really means, also for the european union. the arctic is also a region where major global players meet and compete for influence and territorial claims. as with the other areas in our european neighbourhood, it is in the eu’s interest to modernise its arctic policy, to invest in its presence in the region, and to prepare for the security challenges that are developing. therefore i welcome the report on which we’ll vote this week – and i highly commend our rapporteur ms anna fotyga – that expressed high hopes for the new eu arctic policy. a small reminder that the eu has invested in its presence so far in this region was the conversation that we had with local officials in greenland. eu support for their education system has helped the local population to overcome their disadvantaged position due to the lack of education in their mother tongue, and we should work more on this. i support stronger participation of the eu in the arctic, and we should keep a close eye on the area, which will be a playground for future geopolitical and economic interest.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. the arctic is an exceptionally sensitive and precious area. it is where the economic and security interests of the great powers meet the extreme effects of climate change. the importance of geopolitics has been growing, and we need an active and constructive approach from the eu to strengthen peaceful cooperation between the states of the region. from brussels, we must see as far as the northernmost corner of europe and understand the challenges and opportunities of the arctic region. the eu has the power and responsibility to promote the sustainable, comprehensive development of the region. the special funding for the northern sparsely populated areas has been particularly successful and must now be increased. the commission has the opportunity to take parliament's strong and balanced report into account in its arctic communication and to strengthen its hand in the arctic region, also in practice. the need now is for comprehensive and international treaty arrangements, in the creation of which the eu should now play an active and proactive role.
mr president, the international interest in the arctic is constantly growing and therefore it must be given a much stronger role in all european union policies. the european parliament often focuses on environmental and climate policy when it talks about the arctic, which is very important, but it is great that this report looks at the opportunities and challenges of the arctic in a much broader way. the opportunities offered by the economic, transport and infrastructure aspects and the need for sustainable investment in the region are also highlighted. it's a lot of opportunity. climate change has long been a difficult problem in the arctic. over the past 50 years, climate change has advanced in the arctic region at three times the rate of the rest of the world, and its effects are everywhere, including in sea level rise and through different weather patterns. the fight against climate change is therefore important for the arctic region, where reducing emissions of black carbon, or nox, is particularly important. at the same time, climate change has meant that the arctic is now much more accessible. this is reflected in the fact that in the barents sea and the entire arctic sea, maritime traffic has increased and will continue to increase as ice conditions change and new sea routes open up, and this has increased interest and also competition in the area. more and more countries and companies outside the region are looking to exploit its potential. this is also of great importance for security policy, as has already been said here, and it is important that the european union does not remain a bystander.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the arctic has been characterised in recent decades by peace and constructive international cooperation. but the melting of the arctic ice, with rising sea levels, is a huge wake-up call for us. the copernicus satellites show that from 1994 to 2017, 11 trillion tons of ice disappeared from the arctic. rapidly rising sea levels threaten millions of people living in coastal areas. arctic sea ice reflects solar radiation back into space, keeping the arctic cold. as the ice melts, geopolitical tensions increase, and natural resources can be over-exploited. but the fragile ecosystems must not be disturbed any further. the climate crisis is our greatest security threat. the eu must integrate the security aspects of climate change into its revised arctic strategy and climate-secure its foreign and security policy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is as chairman of the committee on fisheries that i have come to welcome the entry into force, a little over three months ago, of the agreement to ban unregulated fishing on the high seas in the central arctic ocean. in practice, 10 parties, including norway, russia and china, have agreed to ban commercial fishing and, above all, to carry out joint research projects. there is a need for international coordination because it is complex, it is slow, but it is possible and it already exists to a large extent, notably under the impetus of the countries of the european union and the european union itself. it is necessary to recall, for example, the arice project, which brings together icebreakers, or interact, which sets up research stations. it is important to note, ladies and gentlemen, that scientific diplomacy is probably one of our greatest strengths. we can propose a model of sustainable development, of course, so now let's take it into account, let's act!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot come here and sit down and talk about preserving the arctic without immediately putting an end to the exploitation of fossil fuels. the arctic is a unique ecosystem with endangered marine species. the arctic is the planet's air conditioner. the arctic is also, unfortunately, the target of profit-hungry companies who plan, if we let them, to extract so much fossil fuel that we will have consumed 22 per cent of our carbon budget. europe must rise to the occasion, because it bears a real responsibility for the ongoing destruction of the arctic and the planet. almost half of the companies coveting the arctic today are european, and among them, of course, the french company total énergie, which is planning to increase its production there by almost 30%. the european banks are behind this, of course, but also the direct or indirect public support of the states, for example for arctic lng 2. the oil spill in california is a stark reminder that the exploitation of fossil fuels at sea and in the polar regions must stop immediately. this must be central to the strategy europe intends to develop in the arctic.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, the oral question tabled by the committee on transport and tourism misses the only point of interest to professionals in a sector that has been hit hardest by the covid-19 crisis, particularly in my country, france, the world's leading tourist destination. the crucial question should have been: how much is the commission prepared to pay to support the sector and compensate it for the losses it has suffered as a result of the poor management of the crisis? businesses can't stay afloat if the coffers are empty. this is especially true in a sector largely composed of small and medium-sized enterprises: whether self-employed or family businesses, these categories already find it difficult to find a listening ear from banks. do you really think that the hotel owners, coffee growers, restaurants and beach owners are waiting for the result of a bureaucratic investigation into the deployment of the sanitary pass? no, but honestly! they suffered this suicidal measure for trade, which caused many customers to flee. all workers, including those in tourism, have been hit hard by a drop in turnover, and now the french government is proposing to extend this measure until summer 2022. stop it ! let us stop the ideological whims and let the tourism professionals work freely. they should be consulted before any decision is made. they must be given the financial support they need to survive. the employment problem facing the sector must also be addressed. according to the french ministry of labour, 237,000 people left the hotel and restaurant industry between february 2020 and february 2021. to deal with this, let us start by setting the national priority and abolishing the directive on posted workers. finally, trust the local elected representatives and the local authorities. this is how we help the tourism industry.
madam president, since 2020, tourism in the european union has literally been in shock. according to the un world tourism organization, tourism has fallen by as much as 70%. we all know that for many european countries, tourism is one of the fundamental economic pillars on which their economies are based. in terms of job sustainability, the sector represents 27 million workers, representing 11.2% of employment in the union. before the crisis, the sector accounted for more than 10% of the european union's gdp. we in the european parliament have come up very quickly with a number of proposals to deal with this crisis and we would very much like to hear more from the commission. we need the commission to analyse the impact of two challenging seasons on employment and developments in the sector and what the forecasts are. the market will recover in a few years at the earliest, but it would be interesting to know how the individual member states have supported tourism through european support mechanisms and how effective these instruments have been. the development of tourism has a positive impact on the economic development of regions, infrastructure and regional employment. i need not remind you that most employers are small and medium-sized enterprises, which are threatened by uncertainty. on the other hand, i want to express my admiration for their resilience, their creativity, the innovation that helps them survive. i think they're an inspiration in many ways.
madam president, commissioner, for the three million tourists who used to come to spend their holidays in the french overseas departments, our territories look like paradise. but the violence of this crisis has been hell for our tourism professionals and for our island economies. the emergencies are here and europe must urgently support the recovery of tourism in the overseas countries. why would you do that? because we need to encourage investment, we need to support regional airlines and we need to make tourism more attractive, especially for young people. i hear you: you want to launch a modern, sustainable and responsible tourism. i say 'take action' because we have treasures of biodiversity, because our greatest wealth is the men and women of our territories, and because that is what tourism is all about: unforgettable encounters and the opportunity to build on each other's openness and respect for each other.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is of course regrettable that drastic travel restrictions during the covid pandemic have restricted the free movement of people, and thus of course harmed tourism, which is dependent on the free movement of people. we have not been able - and the commission has not been able - to find a uniform approach here and to oblige the member states to introduce uniform rules. there was, of course, a lot of nationalism, a lot of selfishness. the slogan 'vacation at home' is not very european, and some countries have deliberately introduced rules to prevent people from travelling. the digital eu travel form is a less than positive example. i think the commission has worked out a good model. three member states out of 27 have so far adopted it. the other member states use their own models, and this too is far from being a european approach. but it's no use looking back now. we have to look ahead. we're a few months away from winter. the last winter season has been completely lost in parts of europe, and we must now give operators new hope. travel is not made more dangerous by crossing a border. we must remember that tourism is a lifeline, especially for many rural areas in europe. we must ensure that this elixir of life flows again and that these regions are back on their feet.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, and on the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women in the european union, adopted on 14 june, is designed to ensure that the right to equal treatment for men and women is guaranteed in all member states. we've heard before, 27 million people are directly or indirectly involved in the tourism sector. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests. in this context, i stress the importance of measures to facilitate access to eu funding for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. the recovery of the tourism sector is very important to deal with the pandemic. for example, my country, croatia, was among the first countries to adopt and launch the eu digital covid certificate system. also, with over 12 million nights after that, we can be pleased that we reached 94 percent of september 2019 traffic in september. the national recovery and resilience plan from a croatian perspective plans to invest eur 300 million or 4,5% of the total value. however, tourism needs a specific strategy and we need to think about this sector globally and avoid a situation of finding ad hoc solutions.
madam president, i come from a european region, the balearic islands, which is eminently touristic and has been hit, like all touristic regions, by the pandemic in a very severe way. tourism is one of the most important economic sectors in the world, employing one in ten people on earth, and it has certainly been the most affected sector, with a ripple effect on other sectors. the digital green certificate has undoubtedly provided a solution at eu level because it has been a harmonised, easy to use, secure and accessible digital tool - that was very important - and therefore a step towards the revival of tourism. it was therefore a turning point in the pandemic, reviving this tourism and avoiding the chaos of the previous year, because we were faced with a situation of travellers with different regulations in different member states, and in many cases different in different regions of the same member state. the key to the sector is safety, trust, global vaccination, harmonized protocols and coordination and that health goes hand in hand with tourism because that builds trust. the eu's health label for tourism has also been important, as the commissioner has rightly said, but we must now go a step further because the sector is basically made up of smes and we therefore need the financing of smes and aid for unemployment in the sector; that is why a specific tourism plan from the european union is very important so that these recovery funds give priority to the tourism sector. europe will not be revived until tourism is revived.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank you sincerely for this discussion on a first review of the tourist season and on the importance, more generally, of this tourism ecosystem which is, i repeat, absolutely essential for us in europe. from the beginning of the pandemic, i was concerned, of course, about the impact of the crisis on the players in tourism. i have been reminded of this, but i will say it again: the vast majority of them are small or very small businesses, and often even family businesses. i also know that the situation in some parts of europe is still difficult. we have already discussed the situation in madeira, for example, or in palma. mr bijoux, i also heard what you said about the overseas countries and i fully share your view of the extraordinary potential. we know that there are still problems at the moment, particularly with vaccination. i'll come back to that in a moment. i agree with everything that has been said. i would like to say again that we are not yet at the expected levels for our tourism ecosystem, but nevertheless, the last season has just shown that there is really a recovery. i was in southeast asia last week and i can tell you it's closed. of course, this is not a fair comparison, but it is impressive to see what is happening in these parts of the world, which are as touristic as ours. and all of this for one reason, and it has been said: the success of the vaccination campaign. of course, you have to repeat it because it's the key. and then, you guys have been talking a lot about, you know, the covid certificate. i would like to pay tribute to you here, because this is the fruit of work we have done together: after the commission's proposal, my technical services put it in place with a rapid execution so that the necessary votes could take place and, finally, everything was ready for july. it was a gamble and it shows that europe can still move forward together, with urgency and in the general interest. of course, there is still much to be done. there has already been much discussion about how the recovery of the whole tourism sector should be approached from now on. there has also been a lot of discussion with the member states and at commission level to ensure that the recovery plans incorporate a significant dimension in their tourism envelope and i think i can say that this is the case. now we need the means to arrive as quickly as possible. it is obviously up to the member states to implement all this. they are encouraged and assisted if they wish. the commission has brought together national tourism authorities through the advisory committee on tourism and we will continue to do so, as you can imagine. but beyond crisis management, i would also like to thank the members who called for an integrated tourism plan. i think it's very important and i heard it. we do need a holistic approach - that is basically what you are saying to each other - which incorporates the needs of both tourism businesses, large and small, and employees. i also share all that has been said about employees, particularly the fact that this is obviously a very important sector for employment, which requires training and adaptation, and in which we see that there is a certain lack of jobs today, which creates tensions. so we must tackle this problem, and i repeat, in a holistic way. the commission has therefore proposed the development of a european agenda for tourism 2030-2050; it is a medium-term objective, but we must work on it today to give the whole sector a new perspective. we need to work with the member states and the european parliament, that is obvious, including on the transition paths for staff, all those who make up the strength of this sector. with that in mind, i would like to reiterate that you can count on me to carry the ambitions of this agenda. if you'll allow me, i'm counting on you, too. i believe that we have a chance here to redefine together the future of tourism in europe, drawing on all its diversity, the richness of its regions and the richness of our cultural heritage, which makes our continent the world's leading tourist destination and we intend to continue this.
in writing. the european tourism ecosystem has been severely affected by the covid-19 crisis. there have been several debates in parliament over the past few months to speed up the recovery of the european tourism industry. next generation funds, the vaccination campaign, the digital covid certificate and the hygiene certification seal, among others, have been markedly european measures and achievements. they all had the same objective, to establish a coordinated vision at eu level with a view to regaining citizens' confidence in travel and avoiding unilateral measures that hinder the recovery of the sector. the commission notes that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the tourism sector, and that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the tourism sector. this analysis will be crucial in order to move firmly towards a genuine european tourism policy, a european tourism union.
in writing. tourism has been one of the main sectors affected by the pandemic. in spain, in the summer of 2020, we lost 64 million tourists and more than 100 billion euros compared to 2019. the most affected are the usual ones: consumers, smes, the selfemployed and workers in the sector. in the european union we have no competence in tourism, but we do have competence in mobility. we have therefore put in place measures to restore mobility so that tourism can be restored automatically. the eu digital covid certificate is one of them. but it's not enough. many member states have unilaterally restricted tourism and hospitality. it has subsequently been shown that these extreme measures are not the solution. we have to get past the false debate that faces the economy and health. in the community of madrid, under the presidency of isabel díaz ayuso, it has been shown that the economy can be kept active by providing entrepreneurs with the tools to do so safely and, at the same time, strengthening the health system. i call on all of you to continue on the path of openness while we continue to work on innovative solutions that allow us to live with the virus.
in writing. the tourism sector represents 27 million jobs and 10% of eu gdp. at the same time, it is one of the sectors that has been most affected by the covid-19 pandemic. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 30 june 2013 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 1 july 2013. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. the digital modernisation of tourism started during the pandemic. covid-19 has accelerated that process. in order to achieve this and to make the necessary investments, the sector that has already been hit by covid-19, and in particular the smaller companies that have been particularly affected by the pandemic, will need specific support. another very important issue is the predictability of the situation for tourists. travel rules in the member states should be coordinated as much as possible to reduce uncertainty for passengers and information should be easy to find and transparent. precautions taken in the context of covid-19 should also be proportionate and appropriate, and post-travel quarantine should be a measure of last resort. finally, a return to normalcy is dependent on proper hygiene standards, especially in the context of covid-19. the establishment of minimum, transparent rules can increase the safety of customers and workers in the tourism sector.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on 22 february you came to meet the members of the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation (inge), to discuss the progress of the work on the legislative proposal on digital services. a short time before, mrs jourová had presented the european democracy action plan to us. in these exchanges, we shared the same observation: a hybrid war has been launched against our democracy. authoritarian regimes use legal and illegal means to subvert our public debate and our institutions. we simply cannot afford to be naive. for more than a year, the inge special committee has been analysing the attacks on the eu. cyberattacks, foreign powers' funding of political actors, information manipulation campaigns, penetration of the academic and cultural sectors, capture of elites and former european politicians: in the face of such threats, we must do more and better. commissioner, online platforms have become essential places for european democratic debate. because of attention-seeking economic models, and despite the phenomenal openness they have allowed, they are an extraordinary playground for foreign powers seeking to destabilize us. today, in the absence of adequate regulation at european level, issues relating to the fight against the manipulation of information or any other form of online interference fall within the competence of the platforms themselves. the principle of self-regulation has clearly shown its limits. by raising the level of demand on platforms, the proposed digital services legislation should at least address much of the problem. together, commissioner, let us ensure that future legislation strengthens our arsenal in the fight against interference. let's limit the collection of personal data, which makes it easier to target politicians. let's ban the use of micro-targeting for political advertising. let's regulate the use of fake accounts and bots, which artificially amplify the spread of misinformation. we should also encourage platforms to increase diversity in content recommendation algorithms and to act quickly to respect fundamental rights. let's expose the misinformation on all the websites. we must demand transparency and ensure that the information received by users is pluralistic. let's regulate the online content of foreign media. clearly, we should not allow russia today and other propaganda outlets of authoritarian regimes to relay false information aimed at manipulating our opinion under the pretext that they are supposedly media. commissioner, all the experts interviewed and the studies commissioned say the same thing: the tools currently deployed are not effective enough to respond to attacks, protect our citizens and deter our adversaries. we can better map these attacks, their patterns, their methods. we can better share our work and coordinate our efforts. we also recommend that swift action be taken on the issue of sanctions: if a platform does not respect its commitments and becomes complicit in a disinformation campaign, it should bear the cost, i.e. be sanctioned. in view of the major dangers facing our democracies, i am therefore addressing these specific questions to you, commissioner, on behalf of the inge special committee. what kind of cross-cutting coordination does the commission propose to fill the existing gaps? how does it intend to coordinate collective countermeasures better? will the commission encourage member states to prohibit or drastically restrict foreign financing of political activities? what kind of instruments does the commission intend to propose to punish the sponsors of hybrid attacks? how does the commission assess existing legislation on disinformation and hate speech? does the commission intend to put forward new proposals to ensure that these facilities are available in all eu languages? what is the commission's assessment of the regulation on transparency and the use of algorithms and political advertising on the internet? finally, what specific programmes does the commission intend to put in place to promote media literacy and to ensure a diverse and independent media landscape? commissioner, this is not a partisan debate, but the preservation of the common framework within which we can all express our differences. the defence of democracy, which we inherited, is our most fundamental mission here. i would like to end by quoting a german poet, hölderlin, who wrote: 'where danger grows, so does salvation.' i think that we have, in the threats to our democracies, also the opportunity to make them stronger, stronger and more vibrant.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the inge committee, first of all, i would like to thank you very much for this discussion, for this debate which i personally found very interesting, in the light of the very important issues we are facing and which we must face, particularly in the context of the regulations which will enable us to organise our information space. i think the debate has shown that the question of the role of platforms in spreading disinformation is essential. they may be agents of strategy, hybrid threats or destabilisation. but the answer to this scourge is not simple - the debate has just demonstrated this once again - because it is of course a question of preserving all the freedoms that underpin our democracy, but also of being uncompromising. however, i believe that in europe we are probably best placed to find the right balance, because that is what it is all about. firstly, because of our more democratic political systems, with the checks and balances that go with it. we are the first to actually confront this scourge. i am not afraid to say it and i think we should be aware of this: the world is watching us. i have noticed this on all my trips, as i am sure you all have, especially the last ones to the united states or south-east asia. the regulatory framework, the dsa, that we're working on, is actually going to be the platforms' regulatory framework for the next 20 years. the last regulation was 20 years ago. so this is the time horizon that we have to be on in this very important work that we are doing collectively. so we have to be ambitious. anyway, i'll always be by your side. you have to be ambitious. some have spoken of high-risk asd. i think that is a good formula and i obviously support this ambition. i think that our proposal, with the sanctions that go with it - and sanctions are obviously needed - is well suited to this ambition. so i say again that i will always be on the side of those who want to be ambitious in this house. because as some have already said, some platforms have become - in fact, this has been taken up by many of you - a kind of public space, without taking any responsibility or responsibility for it. on the contrary, as you have said, they are making ever greater profits, and this is because things have to be said against the general interest. in this context, the commission is committed to ensuring compliance with the obligations that are introduced by the co-legislators in the digital services legislation and in the digital markets legislation, while ensuring - and i invite you to pay attention to this and i know that you are - respect for freedom of expression. so we are going to do whatever it takes to get there, mr president, because it is really our collective responsibility and we are being watched and we are being expected. i would therefore like to thank all those who are working on this and who have taken part in this debate. i thank you for your commitment to the negotiation of these proposals. you all said it, i held it because it was really a constant, it's urgent to act, we have to act fast. so i urge you to hurry because every day that passes is a new story. beyond the dsa, i would say that we need even more specific action against disinformation that affects, beyond the platforms, the role of advertising companies, big brands and civilians. this is the aim - i mentioned it in my introduction - of the code against disinformation, which must also be ambitious, but also very concrete. finally, i would like to reiterate the need to strengthen the education of our children. this has been said by many of you, but i would like to put it in my own words again, if you will allow me. when i was young, they said school was for learning to read, write, and count. i guess so. but now we must also learn to choose. we must teach our young people to choose in this information space, in this flow of information. and learning to choose, that means values, history, our references, that means what an honest woman or an honest man of the 21st century will do: learn to navigate this information space while being able to lead their own way. this is a major and essential issue and i believe we all need to work together on it. anyway, i'll be with you there too. in conclusion, as you have understood and i repeat, we are fully committed to tackling the problem of disinformation online and in all its dimensions, of course. it is a context of a polymorphic environment: regulatory, technological, economic, educational, security, with hybrid threats, geopolitical, obviously - many of you have spoken about it and rightly so, with the notion of attribution capacity which is real - institutional, political. and in fact, in the face of this multidimensional phenomenon, our action must be a combination of all our instruments in order to be able to provide an effective response. so you can, in this context - i repeat - count on me, on my determination to make sure that these platforms finally take responsibility and do not hide behind an approach that has been a little arrogant of too big to care.
as regards the itre committee's decision to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71 (1), announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 4 october, i have not received any request for a vote in parliament from members or political groups reaching at least the average threshold. the committee may thus enter into negotiations.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission and council statements on european solutions for energy price increases for businesses and consumers: the role of energy efficiency and renewable energy and the need to address energy poverty (2021/2904 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, after steadily declining for more than a decade, enterprises are once again making headlines in europe. gas prices reached record-breaking highs in october. electricity wholesale prices surged by more than 200% in the first nine months of this year, driving up retail prices. this sharp rise is the result of a combination of factors. the world economy has started to rebound after the pandemic and is hungry for energy, most notably in asia. at the same time, europe’s gas supply has tightened. an unusually cold winter and spring last year depleted the gas storage in europe. then there was a summer of maintenance work on gas pipelines delayed by the pandemic, reduced deliveries. lng supply was hampered by technical problems and lower investment. europe’s domestic gas production has also decreased. while long-term contracts from russia were respected, no extra capacity was booked despite the rising prices exacerbated by tight balance. to make things worse, less wind than usual in western europe and less hydropower reduced the available amount of renewable energy. the carbon price has also increased steadily due to economic recovery and greater use of carbon-intensive fuels, but this explains only a limited part of the electricity price increase. all of this has driven up gas prices across the globe and created the ingredients for an abrupt price surge in europe. market expectations indicate that this is a temporary situation, but gas prices will remain high throughout the winter and should gradually decrease from spring next year based on current demand for gas. gas underground storage is above 75% across europe. this level is lower than the 10-year average. it is tight but adequate to cover the winter season needs. the evolution of the winter season is a key variable to watch closely. this price shock cannot be underestimated. it is hurting our citizens and in particular the most vulnerable households, weakening competitiveness and adding to inflationary pressure. if left unchecked, it risks compromising europe’s recovery as it takes hold. there is no question that we need to take policy measures. europe has gone through high energy prices many times in the past and responded to them through diversification of supply sources and market integration. today, the price rise happens while a profound transformation of the energy system is underway. we need to design a fair and forward-looking response. we have to be clear: the current price hike has little to do with our climate policies and much to do with our dependence on imported fossil fuels and their relative prices. the green deal provides the only lasting solution to europe’s energy challenge: more renewables and improved energy efficiency. wind and solar have continued to generate the cheapest electricity in europe in recent months. they are not exposed to price volatility. some are pointing at the european electricity market design as a part of the problem. yet, when demand and price are high everywhere in the world, it is impossible for the eu to be immune. the best response to the price challenge is to progress faster towards our target goal of 65% of renewable electricity by 2030. the electricity market design is tailor-made to deliver more renewables and cheaper energy to all consumers and to enhance cross-border integration. last year, member states with the highest share of renewables in their mix had the lowest wholesale electricity prices with several cases of negative price on the day-ahead market. we believe this framework is sound, but we see the challenges and we are ready to launch a study with acer based on the current electricity market design and its ability to deliver a lower-cost and secure transition to a net-zero energy system. so what can be done now? in the commission’s view, europe must respond by delivering swift, coordinated action at member state level, by leveraging the strength of its single market and by increasing its preparedness for future crises. the commission will present next week a toolbox of measures member states can take in line with eu law, both short and medium term. providing targeted support to consumers, direct payments to those most at risk of energy poverty, cutting energy taxes, shifting charges to general taxation are all measures that can be taken very swiftly, under eu rules. the immediate priority should be to mitigate social impacts and protect vulnerable households, ensuring that energy poverty is not aggravated. higher than expected ets revenues provide space for doing so. business, and in particular smes, can be given relief through state aid, or by facilitating longer-term power purchase agreements. second, we need to ensure that markets work in a fair and transparent way. competition authorities and national regulators with acer have a role to play in market surveillance and prevention of uncompetitive practices. protecting consumers, including by preventing disconnection and supporting self-consumption and energy communities is also key. finally, it’s essential to strengthen europe’s preparedness and resilience to price hikes. we need to invest in flexibility and storage to integrate more variable renewable energy in the electricity market. we need well-functioning and liquid gas markets in the transition, ready to integrate growing shares of renewable gases. by the end of the year, i will propose a reform of the gas market and will review in that context issues around storage and security of supply. more ideas have been put forward by the member states and members of the parliament such as forms of joint purchase of emergency gas reserves, and we are analysing all of them. we need also to remain mindful of the importance of the geopolitics of energy and develop a more strategic approach to external energy policy. this price shock is an unexpected crisis, at a critical juncture. we must respond together and stay on course to a cleaner, more secure and more affordable energy future. thank you for your attention and now i’m looking forward to hearing your views on this important topic.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the issue of increasing energy prices affects all european citizens, and therefore it is a highly relevant topic to discuss today. the council is vigilant and active on this important subject following the sharp rebound in recent months. this is a multifaceted phenomenon. some of it was expected in the light of economic recovery and the relaxation of travel restrictions. however, such a rebound stemmed mainly from a surge in gas prices of more than 170% since the beginning of the year. while higher eu emission-trading-system prices had an impact, this was only secondary. on this basis, we need to discuss how the eu can help to mitigate the impact of soaring energy prices. as you know, the rise in energy prices was discussed at the informal meeting of energy and transport ministers in september. the competitiveness council of 28 september followed up on those discussions by insisting on the importance of affordable, decarbonised energy. the environment council will also be seized on the matter at its meeting today. in this way, the presidency encourages exchange of best practices on how to mitigate the negative consequences of increasing energy prices at the national level, but also a reflection on potential collective action at the eu level. we are looking forward to the communication on rising energy prices that the commission has promised to unveil on 13 october. we understand that this new toolbox will consider available options both at national and at eu level. we also welcome the fact that the topic will be on the agenda of the october european council. this will give heads of state and government the opportunity to address this complex issue in depth. the fit for 55 package is neither the source of the current surge of energy prices, nor a short—term solution. in the long term, the decarbonisation of the european economy can contribute to mitigating fluctuation in energy prices and to fighting energy poverty. a reinforcement of eu energy efficiency policies can help moderate our energy demand and support member states in addressing energy poverty. in parallel, the reinforcement of the renewable energy directive can reduce eu import dependency on gas, reducing our exposure to its price fluctuations. the newly proposed social climate fund aims to mitigate the price impact of the new carbon pricing by providing temporary direct income support for vulnerable households. i am convinced that the negotiation for the fit for 55 package will help us define the best and the most cost—effective tools to reach our common goal of climate neutrality and, at the same time, a long—term solution for the sustainable energy mix of member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i should like to welcome the minister to the european parliament. one thing is certain and sure, the current crisis is preoccupying. it is affecting citizens. it is affecting european enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, which were already affected by the pandemic and by the economic consequences of the pandemic. it is our duty to help citizens and enterprises overcome this crisis of increased energy prices. what do we have to do? firstly, we have to identify if there was any market manipulation in europe in recent weeks and months by state or non-state actors. we have to make sure that no state or non-state actor – be it the russian federation, gazprom or anyone else – manipulates and influences european energy prices. if this occurs, then we have to take measures. then sanctions are obviously unavoidable against such entities, be private companies or not. secondly, we have to understand what is the cause of the increased ets price, which doubled in september in comparison to the beginning of the year. what is the cause of the volatility? what is the cause of the increased price of ets? we have to understand the market. we have to react. this is the first set of measures that we have to take. secondly, we have to take direct action at european level in the following direction. we have to make sure that different member states do not take measures which affect other member states. when any member state of the union decides to support people or enterprises in one country this should not be done at the expense of the consumers in any other country. we have to present, commissioner, a toolbox from european level of measures which member states should take, such that no actions in one member state affect actions in another member state. thirdly, we need concrete actions from european level. there is one idea on the table which i support, and this is common gas storage facilities and joint procurement schemes for gas. these should be deployed quickly, and i believe that if such a proposal would be on the table from the commission we here in the european parliament can support it, and then of course improve our energy security, reduce our energy dependence. and the third set of measures is the financial measures from the european level. yes to the transition to the green economy, but we have to make sure that we help and support those affected. people and enterprises, particularly those in a vulnerable situation, should not be left alone to shoulder this burden. what do i mean in concrete terms here? the social climate fund, as it was designed, is not sufficient. we have to increase the social climate fund because what we have now, the gts, the social climate fund will not be enough. one last idea, commissioner: the commission is late with the own resources proposal. when you put it forward, please take into account the risks for vulnerable consumers and allow from own resources a buffer with which we should help vulnerable consumers and enterprises through the budget of the european union.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is essential and urgent, because the situation is already untenable for many families. and that is why i cannot really understand why we have not been able to reach agreement in this house in order to be able to put forward a resolution in addition to the debate. in any case, my group, the socialist and democratic group, has a clear proposal on this and we are going to put forward concrete issues and work closely with the commission and the council to get them through. because energy prices are not just a national issue, they have a clearly european dimension. we welcome the package of measures you have announced, madam commissioner, and we are very curious to see whether they are really as demanding as the times demand. you have referred to direct aid and perhaps later, in your next speech, you could give a little more emphasis to the content, because there are really matters worth getting to know in depth, but we will have time to look at it and to see whether the commission is acting in the circumstances. we need short-term solutions because winter is coming and a combination of circumstances makes it foreseeable that prices will not fall by themselves. as the market is, there are abuses and a mismatch between supply and demand. but we also need medium-term solutions that allow energy markets to operate more efficiently. experience shows that each state is weaker on its own and that, individually, governments are at the mercy of price speculation, even competing with each other. the first of the european communities was created to manage coal and steel jointly, two raw materials essential for postwar economic development. it is time to act and to do so we propose three measures. the european commission should present a concrete plan for states to coordinate and react in times of high energy market stress as a first step towards a true energy union. we must negotiate together, as we have done for the purchase of vaccines and establish a platform for the distribution of resources as needed. what is unacceptable is that it is the most vulnerable who pay for the abuse of the receipt while the big energy companies make billions in profits. the package of objective 55 must be an instrument to accelerate decarbonisation, but at the same time to ensure supply and autonomy and to free us from unacceptable political blackmail by some of our neighbouring countries. it is an opportunity to invest in energy-efficient and renewable technologies, to invest in the future, to move beyond an outdated, unsustainable fossil fuel-based model that is responsible for the current price crisis. if the rules of the game are set at european level, the remedies must also be european. secondly, measures must be taken to curb speculation in the carbon market. the european union's carbon market has been breaking records for months of speculative moves. we must put a stop to this speculation and ensure a transition to a sustainable model, because it is a road without return. we have no choice, because we have no other planet. the european climate strategy, together with the recovery plan, make economic growth and sustainability compatible. the problem is speculation and those who want to take advantage at the expense of the most vulnerable. and thirdly, the rules for the operation of electricity markets need to be revised to make it easier for cheaper energy sources such as renewables to be brought into the mix, while curbing price volatility. for years we socialists and democrats have been working to eradicate energy poverty in europe. every year we see families who have to choose between eating or warming up, and that's totally unacceptable. it's all right. it is the responsibility of the institutions to ensure a minimum of well-being for all europeans. unfortunately, we are forced to talk about this today because the energy price crisis and energy poverty are a matter of great concern to a large part of the european public. all eyes are on brussels because the public is waiting for a european response. it is our duty to act. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, our renew europe group cannot accept that the explosion in energy prices, and in particular gas prices, is affecting our citizens so badly and weakening our industries. the energy crisis requires strong measures in the short, medium and long term. there are three avenues we can explore together. firstly, to increase our gas stocks, which are very inadequate in many countries of the union. that's the only way we can get through the winter without a power cut. the current stocks are not sufficient, as several countries have already drawn on their low stocks for several weeks to compensate for the price increase. a european initiative is possible by bringing together suppliers, transporters and regulators. it is also possible to launch a group gas purchase, similar to what we did together to buy vaccines against covid-19. secondly, we must promote 'made in europe' energy by reducing our dependence on fossil fuels from other countries as much as possible. this means developing our renewable and low-carbon energy sources here, rapidly, including nuclear energy, which is currently the cheapest form of energy. hydrogen must also be produced in europe and not on other continents. it is our strategic energy autonomy that must be promoted. finally, the european energy market must be reformed quickly and the indexation of the price of electricity to the price of natural gas must be ended. if i were a swedish citizen, i would not understand why i should have to pay an electricity bill that depends on the price of natural gas when my electricity comes from decarbonised sources that i have already paid for elsewhere. why should i pay twice? we must therefore reform our european energy market in the spirit of the green deal.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, while billionaires have never been richer, millions of europeans will not even have the means to heat or light themselves this winter. plus 57% increase in gas prices in france, plus 37% for electricity in spain, plus 40% for italy this year: no european country is spared. you who have no problem paying your bills, just imagine what it's like to have the fear in your stomach to see your electricity cut off because you can't pay it anymore. and contrary to what you said, mrs. simson, you are directly responsible. yes, you, the european commission and all those who, like you, want to make everything a commodity. i have a little riddle for you. who said and guaranteed, and i quote, "that the energy market would make it affordable"? you, the european commission in 2019. and you've been telling us the same old bullshit for years. barroso boasted of its added value in 2007 and juncker of its modernity in 2017. 15 years of this and this is the result. since you privatized the energy market, prices have almost doubled. and once again, it is the poorest who will pay the bill, while the shareholders of edf, total or engie enjoy nearly 10 billion in dividends. you are still talking, mrs simson, about respect for the sacrosanct european rules in this context, but how dare you? excuse me, but those are the same ones that led us right into the wall. you've definitely learned nothing. energy should be a commons, accessible to all, but you have made it a commodity like any other, on which we speculate and make profits. heating and food should not be a luxury: it is a fundamental right. our group on the left in the european parliament is proposing an immediate price freeze on energy and basic necessities. we must do everything we can to reduce the cost of living, starting with lower taxes and gradually introducing new rates. learn from your failures, get out of every market that is leading us straight into the wall, allow the states to renationalize the energy sector and keep their hand on price controls for a long time, put the package on the renovation of the millions of heat sinks that are increasing the energy consumption of the most precarious households, finally act. the rise in energy prices is your political choice, but you can stop it: either you continue to serve the interests of a handful of shareholders, or you finally wake up to help millions of people in the galley.
madam president, this rampant escalation of energy prices is a direct threat to eu stability. winter is coming and energy poverty will soon be widespread. the problem is especially acute in spain, where the dependency on gas is now combined with the huge political power of the energy monopoly. with aznar, gonzález and their buddies sitting on the boards of energy companies, the spanish energy market is a textbook example of regulatory capture. spain’s vivid lessons of what not to do in energy policy include grotesque initiatives like the taxation of self-production of families and smes. populists are surely taking this emergency as their opportunity to undermine progress towards the green transition, but the green deal is the only pathway to cheaper energy access and to evade climate change. but the commission must do much more. you need to be much more active on transparency. consumers must easily understand their energy bill so that society does not associate rising prices with the green transition. more action is needed on energy efficiency, and tolerance of revolving doors must end.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the strong post-covid economic recovery is good news. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure. once again europe is faced with the challenge of maintaining its own supply systems and, more generally, its own strategic autonomy: in the face of this new shock, we need to take effective measures now to eliminate or mitigate any negative impact on businesses and consumers. it is therefore good that the institutions have placed this issue high on the european political agenda and that many member states have already reacted promptly with tax relief measures and direct aid. but i want to be clear: we cannot allow anyone to use the current crisis as an instrument to challenge the decarbonisation commitments we have made. on the contrary, in a strategic long-term perspective, we must recognise that now more than ever we need to invest in energy efficiency, stimulate growth and renewable energy across europe, and create sound alternatives to the use of fossil fuels. in short, to make europe less vulnerable and more independent on this front too. in this respect, the measures taken by some countries, which penalize renewables, seem paradoxical. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it is now up to us to accompany the transition with decisions that ensure the resilience of our energy supply. we therefore expect the council's discussions and the commission's proposals to be able to meet the great challenge we face: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our promise was to make the transition without leaving anyone behind, it was the green deal for social justice. but in the face of rising gas prices, what are we going to do? gas, behind electricity, the price of books, the price of bread and even the price of toilet paper, is exploding in europe and each of these increases is the de facto result of an economic model that destroys life. so it is reassuring, yes, to see that states are taking up laws that can support households in difficulty during these energy crises. the aid still has to be adequate: in france, the aid for the most precarious households is 100 euros, whereas the observatory on energy precariousness recommends 710 euros. but the response to this crisis must be structural and not one-off. the price of fossil fuels will continue to rise and is already rising. fossil fuels will never be cheap again. for the climate, we also have to get rid of it. so let's really stop investing in and supporting these very expensive, very unstable and very volatile fossil fuels. let's choose energy independence, let's choose energy conservation, let's choose renewables and really do it. and do not tell us that nuclear power is the solution, that we import uranium from it, that we do not know how to treat its waste, that it is still much more expensive, big or small reactors, than renewable energies. in the context of the revision of the ten-e regulation, in the taxonomy, in the regional funds, some continue to support gas and nuclear. this crisis must be a signal that there is still time to change course. no carbon market for transport and construction, no investments in gas and nuclear, but ecology and social justice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, energy prices are exploding all over europe. in spain, electricity bills have risen by 35% in one year. in france, the price of gas has risen by 70% since the beginning of the year. the working classes are hit hard as they already struggle to make ends meet. one third of people surveyed in france by secours populaire have difficulty paying energy bills: 550 000 households had their electricity or gas cut off in 2020. you sold us the liberalisation of the sector as the miracle that would bring down prices. that's a lie! since liberalisation, prices in france have risen by 80% for gas and 60% for electricity, as part of the bill is now used to pay dividends to shareholders. shareholders, what are you waiting for to put them into contribution? by requiring only 10% of the suppliers' profits, we can immediately reduce the bills by 500 euros and get through the winter. for suppliers it is nothing, but for some of our fellow citizens it is a matter of life and death. finally, in the longer term, it is the market's energy output that is on the agenda. we must put an end to private enrichment on the commons, which is essential to life, because our lives are worth more than their profits.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's debate is being triggered by the rise in gas prices, but the truth is that the energy crisis has not yet begun: it is very far ahead of us. we can already be sure of this for a very simple reason, namely that it is already being prepared by the decisions taken here in this house and in the european institutions. we know very well that these decisions are making us more and more dependent on this gas, which we see is highly volatile and will increase with the weight of renewables, the intermittency of which will make our dependence even more important. we want to electrify all uses, we need more and more electricity, but we are reducing the capacity for controllable electricity generation in all european countries. the result is absolutely inevitable. some, like the french minister of economy, want to change the rules of the energy market, but the truth is that you will not change the basic principles of economics. introduction to economics, chapter one: economics is the science of scarcity and everything that is scarce is expensive. if we prepare today the scarcity of the economy for tomorrow, if we prepare today a system in which the shortages will be structural from 2030, then we will destroy the competitiveness of our industry, we will increase the insecurity of the european continent and its dependence on the powers that sell us gas, then we will worsen the growing social unrest. we have seen the yellow vests in france, we will see the same phenomenon at european level and in the end, because we wanted to sell renewable energies which, in fact, make us dependent on gas, we will have increased our contribution to climate change. i believe that if we do not change now, then this moment will be remembered as a particularly significant milestone in europe's self-destruction.
in writing. the fundamental question is whether we are dealing with a temporary situation, with cyclical and speculative price volatility, and in the spring the market situation will return to normal, or we are facing the onset of a crisis of hard to pinpoint duration, which has structural causes. i was concerned by the speech by the energy commissioner which showed that in the ec, the view is that we are dealing with a temporary situation. i tend to think that we are at the beginning of a long-term crisis under the influence of factors of great complexity, including geopolitical ones. the ec toolkit must contain immediate measures, firstly, direct payments for vulnerable consumers in romania, across the eu, who will not be able to pay their energy bills. smes need state support from national budgets complemented by resources from the european budget. in the medium term, the effects of the 'fit for 55' package will be felt. energy efficiency needs to be improved and renewable energy production increased, but romania and a number of eu member states are perfectly justified in insisting on keeping natural gas as a transition fuel. natural gas is indispensable over the next three decades for any european strategy that is grounded in reality.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the commission and the council on the pandora papers: implications for efforts to combat money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance (2021/2922 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear commissioner, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to discuss here in the plenary the so-called pandora papers. revelations of this kind are not new, and have in fact regularly appeared in the media in the past few years. the most recent data gathered in the context of the pandora papers should be the subject of further analysis by all the institutions concerned, in particular member states, to find out whether illegal operations have indeed taken place. of course, it is not up to the council to pronounce itself on any specific case mentioned in the most recent revelation. but this revelation shows once more how important the ongoing efforts in the area of fighting tax fraud and evasion remain. the eu will continue to strongly support work in this field. since the council has started working on this issue, we have reached quite some progress in the area of fighting evasive practices over the last few years, be it in the area of money laundering or in the field of taxation. regarding anti-money laundering. on financial secrecy, a lot of progress has been made on enhancing financial transparency through the successive anti—money laundering directives. one of the aspects that merits highlighting in the introduction of the member states of publicly available register for companies, trusts and other legal arrangements, which has already yielded some results. in this context, i would also like to mention the anti-money laundering package that the council has received over the summer. one of the aims of the package is to close loopholes used by criminals to launder illicit proceeds through the financial systems. the article by article examination of the proposal is ongoing in the competent working parties, and even through this will require thorough discussion. the council is determined to move towards a mandate for negotiation with the parliament in a swift manner. regarding tax transparency. in the area of taxation there has been significant progress on transparency. thanks to the various directives in the field of administrative cooperation, the so-called dac directive, member states have the tools to exchange a wide array of data relating to taxation. thanks to dac 6 on cross-border aggressive tax planning, for instance, intermediaries are now under an obligation to report dubious schemes to tax authorities. administrative cooperation is regarded as a priority in the fight against aggressive tax planning worldwide. exchange of information is essential between member states as well as with third countries. the two anti-tax avoidance directives have also given an impetus to make the use of shell companies less attractive by introducing rules and controlled foreign companies and hybrid mismatches, just to name a few aspects. in this context, i think that the forthcoming legislative proposal targeted to the use of shell companies will be particularly relevant, and we are looking forward to receiving it from the commission as soon as possible. the eu is also contributing in the move towards more transparency through the significant global influence of the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. since 2017, through a cooperative approach coupled with the necessary deterrence, the eu has been able to convince a large number of third countries to become more transparent and limit the effect of their taxation regime on other countries. of course, the work is not finished and the code of conduct group will continue to engage with dozens of third countries to improve tax transparency, also in coordination with the oecd. focusing more specifically on the fight against tax avoidance, one of the work strands in the oecd discussions on digital taxation is a global minimum effective tax rate – the so-called globe, which could reshape global taxation arrangement in a fundamental way. in its conclusions of november last year, the council spoke out in favour of a global deal, and i sincerely hope that the statement that is being negotiated will garner as much support as possible at the oecd and g20 so that an agreement can be implemented globally in the coming years. thank you very much for giving me the possibility to share and to listen today’s discussion, and to explain the council’s point of view and lines of action in this extremely topical subject.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, let me thank the european parliament for the immediate and strong reaction and the decision to organise this debate on the pandora papers. the pandora papers are the latest in a series of revelations by investigative reporters and it is thanks to their meticulous work that tax fraud and evasion are on the front pages. the commission has been extremely proactive over the past few years in tackling such issues to increase tax transparency, to fight aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance, and to combat money laundering with our new package adopted by the commission in july. we now have a legislative framework in place in the eu with some of the highest tax-transparency standards and anti-money-laundering standards in the world. i am sure that you all know how many times the directive on administrative cooperation (dac) has been amended to include new areas of automatic exchanges of information and strengthen the existing provision of administrative cooperation. we plan to continue expanding its scope to include new assets on which to exchange information between member states and the tax rulings made for rich individuals. so why, if so much has been done, do we still have the kind of revelations that hit the headlines in the last days? well, first, i think that, more generally, some of the measures that we have tabled in the past years are still to be fully implemented by member states to bear effective results. but second, of course, we have to keep in mind that tax avoiders and evaders also develop new practices to circumvent the measures in place, and that economic activities are more mobile and faster than any legislator around the world. these leaks demonstrate that we cannot be complacent and we need to work continuously to further strengthen our armoury against tax abuse. this is now more crucial than ever as we work to leave behind the economic downturn and to ensure that the costs of the crisis are shared fairly between taxpayers. it is only in this way that member states will have the fiscal space to support the economic recovery. with this in view, the commission is preparing new legislative initiatives that will enhance tax transparency and bring new elements under the umbrella of automatic exchange of information to reinforce further the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. this includes a legislative proposal that we will table before the end of this year to tackle the misuse of shell companies for tax purposes. and we all know, also through the pandora papers, what a key role these shell companies can play in global tax evasion. we will also table a proposal on the publication of effective tax rates paid by some multinationals. to conclude, some words on the eu listing process and how it can be used by us collectively to tackle tax havens. we have achieved results and we have obtained legislative changes in several jurisdictions through this process, and progress is picking up if you look at the increasing number of committed jurisdictions which are now listed in annex ii, our so-called grey list. in particular, in these cases we are working to ensure economic substance in jurisdictions to which tax advantages are granted and to keep track of the economic activities that take place there. once minimal effective taxation – reached with the possible agreement at the g20 level on the oecd proposal – starts applying, i think that our perspective on economic substance might reveal a potential for upgrading. of course we also need to review the criteria to make them more effective, as announced in the tax good governance communication. we need to make progress in order to secure a major role for the eu list in the new international tax architecture. in conclusion, i can assure you that, with the european parliament’s support, we will make it harder and harder for tax avoiders to carry on not paying their fair share.
i am therefore very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of controls on the use of the financial instruments. and i am ashamed that we have been repeating similar debates for years and are not able to put in place the necessary measures to prevent it. i am grateful for and support the untiring efforts of the commission and commissioner gentiloni in the progress he has made in the fight against money laundering, in the road to harmonizing a minimum rate of corporation tax, which seems to be progressing reasonably well. but it's not enough. it's obviously not enough. and every day that we wake up with a news similar to that of the pandora papers, we should, i don't know if we should reflect, because i think that everything is already reflected, but we should really get to work. and i think our friends in the council have a lot to do. because many of the initiatives supported by this parliament and proposed by the commission end up being blocked in the council. and we shall talk later, in the next debate, about the list of tax havens. but it's really embarrassing that the same week that we get to know the pandora papers, a list of tax havens that are not presentable is made public. and i understand that the commission is aware that this list cannot work like that. what surprises me is that at some point the commission does not tell the council that enough is enough, that the list of tax havens cannot always be blocked and cut by the council. finally, we have reached the moment of truth and the council - you and the other governments - must take responsibility for it.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, council representative, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first scandal and yet we still have 11 000 billion euros that are not taxed. they escape taxation because of the indecency, immorality and impunity of a number of our leaders, including a european prime minister, the czech prime minister, senior civil servants and business leaders. at the same time, there was the pandemic and the explosion of hunger in the world, affecting 10 percent of the world's population. we were told that there was not enough public money to pay for hospitals, doctors and nurses. today we are told that there is not enough public money to insulate housing and to deal with the energy crisis. of course, all this is unbearable. this generates populism and mistrust of politics. then there is no fate. there is no fatality to tax evasion. there is no fatality to corruption. the opacity of shell companies and registers is not inevitable, of course. we need, commissioner, complete transparency on registers and shell companies: who runs them, who is behind them, who benefits from them. no such thing as a tax haven. we had a european council that managed to reduce the blacklist of tax havens at the time when these tax havens are mentioned in the pandora papers. we still have not reached the end of unanimity in the council on taxation. and when i hear that the czech prime minister is supported by his fellow european leaders, including president macron, it is clear that the european council is not capable of fighting tax havens. how many tax havens are there in europe? ireland, the netherlands, malta, cyprus and all these countries contribute to tax evasion. nor, of course, is there any fatality in capital control. billions of people are moving in and out of the european union without any precise verification of their origin or whether they have paid their taxes. so no, no fatality to tax crimes, no fatality to impunity, no fatality to the end of solidarity and democracy.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, i have been fighting tax evasion for ten years and i cannot count the scandals i have followed: the pandora papers, the latest ones, the panama papers, the paradise papers, luxleaks, swissleaks, bahamas leaks, malta files, openlux, luxletters... the list is endless. i'll tell you, she makes me mad. the rage that a privileged few continue to steal from us before our very eyes. the rage that nothing is done, when for ten years the same solutions have been repeated in the void. you know what all these cases have in common? almost none of the states involved are on your blacklist of tax havens, which was updated yesterday. you could have said, "hey, for once, they're going to pretend to fill in the margin a little bit". no, i'm not going. it's worse. imagine the scene: all the european finance ministers meet two days after one of the worst tax evasion scandals in history and they can't think of anything better to do than to remove three states from this already almost empty list, including the seychelles, which is at the heart of the pandora papers. frankly, how dare you come here to the european parliament after that and defend this blacklist, which is in fact a carte blanche for tax evasion? this is unbearable! but in the end, it's not even surprising, because those who are supposed to fight this scourge are too often tax evaders themselves, like the 35 heads of state who are up to their necks in the pandora papers. but i'm not resigned, and i'm making that clear by quoting a singer who was also in the pandora papers: "whenever, wherever". we'll find the tax evaders wherever they're hiding and we'll make them pay.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. two weeks ago, the commission published fresh figures for 2020, in the so-called pif report. the vat gap, i.e. the difference between the expected vat revenue and the vat actually collected, has a significant impact on the financial interests of the european union. it is estimated to be 130 billion in 2019. europol estimates the annual losses from crossborder vat fraud alone at between eur 40 and 60 billion. this is the tenth time we've had this discussion. we have income tax fraud, we have corporate tax fraud, we are fighting to get enough staff in the relevant agencies. we then go up by 20 places, 30 places, 40 places, while the big ones get away with tens of billions, so to speak. i did not know why a czech prime minister would need an offshore company for a french house or a house in france. it doesn't seem to be the usual style. we have often noticed the way in which the lord uses european funds. the commissioner, how about we first of all get the european public prosecutor's office, europol and eurojust properly equipped so that they can do their job better in this sector too? what if the member states were finally to be called to account by the commission with the utmost urgency when their financial investigation units fail to do their job? there must be consequences, otherwise people will think the little ones will be hanged, the big ones will be let go.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, € 11.3 trillion is a number, but above all it is a lot of messages. the first is that money is real, contrary to what we tell the citizens that it is the fault of the public debt and deficits; it's just hidden away. the second is that some of the richest among us have seceded, refuse to consent to taxes and prefer the company of dirty money because it is the money of tax havens, it is the money of pedophile crime and trafficking of all kinds rather than the company of citizens' money. the third message is that elected officials, the very people who are supposed to protect us from these fraudulent practices, are also caught red-handed. and the icing on the cake, the answer to that, what is it? the council yesterday removed a tax haven from an already very small list of tax havens, rather than adding another one, namely the seychelles, which is at the heart of the pandora papers scandal, in all its opacity. in my country, it will be seen as europe's fault, when it is not europe's fault, it is the member states' fault. and all this will help to feed populism, and then we will be surprised, we will even be moved and we will wonder how we arrived in our continent so wise, the continent of the enlightenment, to such high rates of extreme right and populism. we know the technical answers. we know we need a credible list of tax havens, change the criteria and processes... we could talk about it for hours; but the question is the political will of the member states and the willingness of the richer ones to share in the prosperity. because, yes, sorry for them, democracy comes at a cost. but you know what? the other systems have much higher and more serious costs.
madam president, i want to say at the outset that i am certainly not making political agitation here ahead of the elections that await us in the czech republic, because the ksčm, my party, has been raising this issue as the only political entity on the czech political scene for years. here again, we have the lists of the world's rich and politicians who, through various machinations and so-called optimizations, avoid paying taxes or, for whatever reason, hide the wealth they have so honestly earned. and it really pisses me off because we're kind of used to it. that it just seems so normal to us! but how much longer are we going to put up with them? how long are we going to let our citizens be robbed, who pay for the world's crises mostly caused by the greed of these billionaires, while they buy islands or fly into space for fun! let's stop talking about it and start doing something about it! and here at home, in the european union! let's not cut back on tax havens, let's add more duties and protect our citizens from having them work and the billionaires make money.
madam president, it seems to me that journalists are doing a much better job than the tax authorities or politicians. that’s why we will probably have more such scandals. but it’s also fair to say that we are making progress. one of the most important things that was not mentioned by the commissioner is that these days tax authorities have access to data – not only to eu data, but also to global data due to oecd standards. but, unfortunately, lessons learned on the functioning of anti-money-laundering systems in europe tell us that not only are we not implementing agreed directives properly, but that we are also not using the data sufficiently. this is bad news. being from czechia, i cannot help but take some lessons from the case of our prime minister. if you look at this kind of structure, one can get a reasonable suspicion that such a complicated expensive legal structure must serve some purpose. so one could argue that behind such structures, there is very often a clear purpose, such as a reduction of taxes through tax avoidance or tax evasion, or money laundering. that’s why we must fight this practice. last but not least, let me mention another issue. both the council and the european parliament voted against banning eu subsidies to large companies. this is very, very unfortunate. as a consequence, some people could argue that mr babiš’ château was partly financed through the money of european taxpayers, and this is quite unfortunate.
madam president, the wealthy are avoiding taxes - what a shocking discovery! s&d has been talking about tax evasion for years, and these documents just on a frightening scale show how right we were. there's an entire industry dedicated to enabling tax evasion for the wealthy, and this discovery, though the largest yet, is unfortunately a drop in the bucket. if this is not a wake-up call to finally enact effective legislation against money laundering and tax evasion then i don't know what is. perhaps the problem is that the council has some of the very people these documents reveal. it's unacceptable that the rich are always getting richer, and the poor, because of the health crisis, the economic crisis, and now the energy crisis, are just getting poorer. as many as 75% of our citizens want the european union to do more to crack down on tax evasion, but it turns out that the small ones we can chase for electricity bills, and the big ones take years and years and end up with rotten solutions. it's time for the eu to finally show its teeth, but first to clean up its own backyard.
madam president, i think we are facing a great embarrassment, once again. a shame that seriously damages the credibility of our institutions by giving the image that there is a tax system for ordinary people and an elite who benefits from a parallel tax system. and in the face of this embarrassment, frankly, i find it regrettable that the council has not had the slightest bit of shame to postpone the discussion on the blacklist of tax havens this week. frankly, this very week, with this leak, to have taken some jurisdictions off the list, not to have introduced, for example, the british virgin islands, which are home to two-thirds of the offshore companies that have come out, i think is unfortunate. that list needs to be reformed. it cannot be guided by political criteria and much stricter criteria must be applied when determining what kind of countries should be on that list. secondly, commissioner, you have said that we have advanced anti-money laundering legislation and that we have made progress. and i agree with you. what is happening is that we have a serious enforcement problem, in the sense that, for example, we also have politically exposed persons on the list who have been able to circumvent the rules, or that some of our european jurisdictions are designated by the fatf as high-risk jurisdictions. that means we have a serious problem with the enforcement of our anti-money laundering rules and that means the commission has to be much stricter in its enforcement. and thirdly, someone said that thanks to the oecd, countries have more information. that is true, but the common standard for the communication of information needs to be reformed. we need more information. for example, real estate and its profits are not covered by the ecci, or, for example, the united states does not use the ecci, and that is a serious problem that we have to change within the framework of the oecd as well.
madam president, one thing is clear: the release of the pandora papers last week has exposed a number of tools and problems that we need to urgently address. firstly, it exposed how easy it still is for individuals and entities to hide money beyond the reach of tax authorities and investigations. second, it also showed us that the eu tax havens blacklist put in place after the panama papers of 2017 is not sufficient. people can still hide money and there are still jurisdictions that are missing from that list – jurisdictions that are not blacklisted, and we also saw in recent ministerial meetings that that list was not enlarged. the third important element is that all money that goes into tax havens in a way which is not legal is missing from our public budgets. it is money that we miss for investments in infrastructure, in health, in education. needless to say that it is unacceptable that eu politicians, prime ministers, and i know there are elections in the czech republic, like the czech prime ministers, are hiding money from eu taxpayers while they are still sitting at the table, where decisions are being made for the whole budget for the european union. this is why commissioner, i expect the commission to put forward further measures to combat tax evasion as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, in the course of the last few years this european parliament has devoted many working hours to the fight against money laundering from illicit business and tax evasion. in the last legislature, the revelations of luxleaks and then the panama papers led to the commission of inquiry of which i was a member and from which important lessons were drawn to clarify the true ownership of assets abroad, as well as to establish a blacklist and a grey list of non-cooperative countries that contribute to tax evasion. and from there comes a new anti-money laundering directive, european criminal law and a european regulation, and it is clear that this is not enough, because the pandora papers once again show that there is not only a global problem, but a european problem, of fiscal demoralization, of capital relocation and of lost revenue, with less social status and more fiscal injustice. it is therefore clear that the whole eu, with the commission at the forefront, must wage a joint battle against tax havens and for the tax harmonization of companies and capital. but while this is happening, more and better can still be done to ensure transparency in the accountability of assets abroad and, above all, to ensure legal control of those offices, firms, consultancies that serve to evade and encourage corruption, the corruption of the rulers: not of rulers of remote countries, of rulers of the european union, to our shame.
madam president, we ask the european citizens to trust us, to get involved, to go to the polls. but all of us, the citizens, we see the panama papers, the pandora papers, we see rich politicians guilty of corruption. it doesn't matter if they undermine national budgets or european funds, or commit tax or environmental crimes. the citizens see that we do not defeat corruption, but we even sit at the table with the corrupt. we leave alone the investigative journalists who are killed, like daphne galizia or ján kuciak. their criminals pay too little and too late. the rule of law mechanism is not yet applied. the european public prosecutor's office headed by kövesi has been delayed, under-budgeted, understaffed. environmental crimes are very lucrative, but most go unpunished. i have called for the establishment of the european green prosecutor and i hope that it will happen in this mandate. let us be clear: the confidence of european citizens can no longer be fooled by speeches. we need real measures to prevent another 'pandora papers'.
mr president, we need to look more closely at the role and movements of russian money throughout the eu, including in finland. the pandora papers lists putin's closest man, gennadi timchenko, who was granted finnish citizenship in 1999. now, according to the revelations, a billion euros were transferred to timchenko through anonymous tax haven companies. with these funds, timchenko acquired a significant stake in novatek, the second largest russian gas company. it was in the early 1990s that the system was finalised, transferring russian oil and gas revenues to offshore companies, which now appear to form the basis of the wealth of putin and his inner circle. as a friendly neighbour, finland has been a convenient stepping stone to wider europe. the key now is to know the beneficial owners and beneficiaries of companies. the commission proposes that each eu country should set up a register to identify the real owners of bank accounts and deposits. the eu's open data directive already requires that ownership information of companies be made publicly available. this would make it easier for the investigative reporters.
i have to say, madam president, what has become known in the last few days as the pandora papers shows the importance of the work we have been doing here for years, including in the fisc special committee. we are also discussing the question of the taxation of capital goods, which is a matter of the european union. but it must also be said that the mere fact that someone invests money abroad is not a crime in and of itself, unless it is proven that this is considered tax evasion. that is why we should not rush to judgment on the pandora papers, which are still a matter for the courts. but i think it is urgent that someone should take money from the eu budget illegally or on the fringes of the law and then invest it tax-free in tax havens. we have obviously had a case like this with the czech prime minister, andrej babiš, who receives subsidies from the eu's agricultural fund in the mid-double-digit million range every year, would have to pay back at least 11 million euros at the moment because they were unjustly taken, and now seems to have invested some of that money in tax havens. that's double theft, in my opinion. this is firstly theft from the european union and then theft from the taxpayer and the citizens over whom he presides, where he does not pay the taxes. we have to think about this in our own legislation as regards the common agricultural policy. because we cannot have our farm money treated like that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax havens are not included in the list of tax havens. the seychelles, one of the star players in panama, paradise and pandora papers, have been removed from the list. and that is exactly what the ministers are doing in the week in which the pandora papers reveal that it is with great ease and on a large scale that celebrities, criminals, politicians and swindlers hide their assets, launder money and evade taxes. that is what the ministers do at the wrong time. the pandora papers give every reason to set sail, to take a sharp approach. it's an insult to all the people who want everyone to pay their fair share of taxes and that crime doesn't pay. and that's most people by far. and the finance ministers are leaving them behind. it is not allowed, and it is not necessary, because there is an effective approach. the commission has also proposed a new approach to the taxation of companies. i am looking forward to the commission's proposal. introduce a tax on outgoing cash flows at the border so that it doesn't pay to take the money away. the ministers do not have to sneak away like a thief in the night because their decision cannot be explained. we expect politicians to take strong action against money laundering and tax evasion. i expect that, and many expect that with me.
mr president, the pandora papers, mr gentiloni, mr logar, prove once again that some journalists are doing a better job of combating the provocative tax evasion by the commission and the council. the citizens are angry and rightly so, because the provocative tax evasion of the super-rich is paid for by the poor, the middle classes, small and mediumsized enterprises and the welfare state. the commission's efforts, mr gentiloni, are limited and inadequate, because the technology of tax evasion is moving faster than your measures. as for you, mr logar, unfortunately the council is covering up and supporting the perpetuation of the provocative criminal tax evasion by its inaction, and citizens are now demanding action, not words, both at european and global level. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, tax scandals are being repeated over and over again and france and europe are doing nothing to stop this financial crime. now i'm angry because they think we're idiots. all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, all day long, we are giving billions to frontex, we are putting up barbed wire and we are putting up floating barriers which are not only ignoble but also absurd. we are distracted and made to believe that we are threatened, but the real danger to our democracies and our societies is right there in front of our eyes: it is injustice. it is impunity; it's the privilege of the powerful when the weak drink; billions of euros are being cut off from the rules, when solidarity money, pension money, public services money are being cut off everywhere else in europe; it is this unbearable complacency that is complicit in the crime. it is the one that threatens and kills our democracies. the scale of the tax evasion scourge is well known. we also know perfectly well the solutions to stop it. so stop playing with lives, and weaken our democracies, and pointing fingers and blaming always the most vulnerable. finally, have the political courage to put an end to these outrageous scams now.
in writing. as europe faces the worst economic and social crisis since the second world war due to the pandemic, the investigation into the pandora papers reveals, once again, the cost of tax evasion and avoidance to public finances and, therefore, to citizens' rights. in addition, opaque tax systems and offshore companies facilitate money laundering, which is used by criminal organizations with increasingly international branches to reinvest the huge profits of their illicit trade in the legal economy, to the detriment of sound economic initiative. to combat tax fraud and tax abuse effectively, the european legal framework on tax fraud must therefore be strengthened, with more transparency and controls on intermediaries, more information exchange, especially between financial intelligence units, and effective sanctions. it is also necessary to move to a qualified majority voting system in the council on taxation and to reform the code of conduct on corporate taxation to make it a truly effective instrument against tax abuse. only strong and coordinated action by the european union as a whole can ensure that the objectives of justice and fiscal equity and the fight against economic and financial crime are achieved.
before moving on to the next debate, i would like to announce that ms francesca donato has left group id and will now be joining the unaffiliated members with effect from 6 october 2021.
the next item is the report by mrs lalucq on the reform of the eu's policy on harmful tax practices (including the reform of the code of conduct group) (2020/2258 (ini)) (a9-0245/2021)
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my fellow rapporteurs for the extremely constructive work and the excellent working atmosphere during the preparation of this report. this text was supported by almost all the political groups, which shows the european parliament's willingness to speak with a strong and united voice to put an end to harmful tax policies, and which shows our ability to work together on this subject, as this debate has just shown, despite our political differences. the concern of the european institutions about aggressive tax competition is not new, even if it is a bit old, since it began in the late 1990s, when the union set itself the objective of combating harmful tax practices and adopted in 1997 a code of conduct in the field of corporate taxation, accompanied by a group responsible for assessing its content. this code of conduct has flaws; we'll get back to you. today, the pandora papers scandal is a reminder of the urgency for member states to cooperate with each other to enhance transparency and thus put an end to these harmful tax practices. it also reminds us of the urgency of updating this code of conduct, which the commissioner mentioned, in order to equip it with the necessary tools to tackle harmful tax practices, which are becoming more and more elaborate every day, thanks in particular to the transformation of preferential schemes into aggressive general schemes. for example, let us not forget that each year governments lose more than €1 trillion in tax revenue through tax fraud and evasion by businesses and individuals. but we must realise that every euro we take out of taxation is so much money that will not benefit the general interest, our democracies, so much money that we desperately need for the functioning of our schools, our hospitals, our public services and to invest in the ecological and social transition. so there's a certain urgency. it should also be borne in mind that these harmful tax practices have had the effect of creating discrimination against small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have the means to take advantage of the shortcomings of national tax systems, unlike multinational companies, which are perfectly aware of the competition between our tax systems. the pandora papers scandal, following the many tax scandals we have seen in recent years, is a reminder of the importance of implementing common and ambitious rules at european level in order to put an end to tax dumping between member states, while fighting tax havens all over the world. that's where the real work starts. not only were almost none of the countries implicated in the pandora papers on the eu's blacklist of tax havens, but worse, in the midst of the scandal, the council decided to remove three tax havens from the blacklist, which are notorious for their total opacity. this shows the urgency of strengthening the criteria for establishing the list of tax havens and, more broadly, of equipping the european union with the necessary tools to deal with tax evasion, both by companies and individuals. in this report, the european parliament acknowledges the obsolescence of the criteria and tools contained in the code of conduct. this is why parliament is calling for the implementation of a reform of the code of conduct, to go beyond its current scope, centred on preferential tax regimes, for which it has obtained a number of results to include general schemes, and why we are asking to extend its scope, to include preferential schemes on personal income, which attract wealthy and highly mobile people, as the revelations of the pandora papers have shown once again. the report also proposes to use economic substance criteria to verify the real activity of companies and thus avoid that they become mere shell companies or letterbox companies. we also ask that the instruments and tools contained in the code of conduct be legally binding, so that they can be used effectively in the fight against harmful tax practices and aggressive tax competition. finally, parliament called for the work of the code group to be made more democratic and transparent, by publishing the documents and work of the code group and by regularly hearing its chairperson. the code of conduct has had its successes. it may have been useful in the past but it now needs to adapt to cope with the evolution of harmful tax practices. that is why i believe this report is essential and i call on this house to vote on it as widely as possible. i think we have all just said how shocked we are by the pandora papers scandal, that this is not the first scandal, that these things are coming up again and again and again. we have been struck, shocked, we want to get out of a certain helplessness. we therefore ask the council to take a number of actions. we also regret that we do not have more weight and power in these decision-making processes. i think it's time to show it now, after we've all made some big speeches.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, rapporteur, indeed, for many years, tackling harmful tax practices and promoting fair tax competition has been high on our agenda. one key example of the action taken by the eu in this area are the several amendments on the dac directive (directive on administrative co—operation). the eu took action against these practices in general with non—binding tools as well. just to mention the european semester and its recommendation, and also, more recently, the recovery and resilience plan and the actions taken on aggressive tax planning with this plan. the code of conduct is also a non-binding tool. it has been the eu primary soft law instrument for preventing harmful tax competition since its creation 24 years ago. during this time, over 400 tax regimes have been assessed in the eu and around 100 were found to be harmful. now, not only the scandals, the pandora papers, but the pandemic, i think that after the pandemic, taxation should play its part and contribute to support economic and social recovery while ensuring social fairness. and with this in mind, we are intensively working on a series of eu tax initiatives, as outlined in our action plan and communication on business taxation. you know that among the most significant of these proposals will be about the use of shell entities for tax purposes, and we also know how important this was for all the stories that these pandora papers are describing. the commission is also actively engaging in the oecd/g20 work to reform the international corporate tax rules, and we are working to try to reach the agreement, in this very week, at a technical level and then to adopt it in the g20 and to work to ensure a consistent implementation of that agreement in the eu. when it comes to the code of conduct, i agree with you and with your report that an urgent reform is needed. by the way, we outlined this in our communication on tax good governance. as you know, we are currently trying to broaden the mandate of the code. in this respect, i would like to thank you for the very interesting proposal of a framework on aggressive tax arrangements and low rates. we will duly take it into consideration in the ongoing discussions. i am glad to see that several of your suggestions for reforming the code go in the direction indicated in our communication and referring to, including in its scope, general features of national corporate tax systems, taxes other than corporate tax and special citizenship schemes or measures aimed at attracting expatriates or wealthy individuals. furthermore, the commission agrees that the code of conduct could make more information publicly available and inform the european parliament, the public and stakeholders, of milestones in its work. the reform of the mandate of the code of conduct group is not progressing as fast as i would have hoped for. a minority of member states is opposing the reform and prefers deferring decisions. nonetheless, we are experiencing a positive trend now, together with the portuguese presidency and now with the slovenian presidency, the commission is working towards a compromise solution. step-by-step, member states will gain a better understanding of the suggested solution and opposition appears to be slightly decreasing. and we evidently rely on your contribution to continue to keep public attention high for a successful outcome of the reform of the code of conduct in the short run.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the recent events we have just discussed, the pandora papers, have made it very clear how urgently we need to act when it comes to tax fraud, evasion, abuse and even tax optimisation. in the area of corporate taxation, further restrictions are needed, especially for larger, international companies, which take advantage of differences and divergences in individual tax systems to pay as little tax as possible. this practice is unfair. it is particularly harmful to small and mediumsized enterprises, which we are always trying to defend. they cannot simply move their headquarters to a place where there is less taxation. and they don't have the chance to come up with some sophisticated control constructs. the code of conduct for business taxation remains an important instrument of the european union to prevent precisely these harmful tax practices. i believe - and i fully agree with you, commissioner - that the code needs to be revised and modernised. globalization, digitization, and the increasing importance of intangible assets are opening up new avenues for leverage and optimization, and this has nothing to do with fairness. the aim - and this is important to my group - is not to prevent legal tax competition between member states, but simply to implement a responsible tax policy in the european union. we are also not in favour of extending the scope of the code of conduct to include income and wealth tax on a flat-rate basis. the code of conduct working party has done a good job so far. it now needs to be developed further, and the code itself needs to be developed further. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation she has shown over the past weeks and months.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i must say, i’m fed up. i’m fed up because less than 48 hours after the pandora papers came out, the council showed that it wants to change absolutely nothing. removing the seychelles from the eu list of tax havens, although it is prominent in the pandora papers, and anguilla, with its 0% tax rate, is a disgrace. the fact that this decision was taken in tax haven luxembourg only shows how far europe still has to go. frankly, the council made the eu look like a fool. we have already discussed this extensively in the previous debate: the purgatory between the upper and the lower world where politicians, bankers and criminals come together to hide their identity and dodge taxes. we all know it’s wrong, if not illegal. so the question is: what to do? i am pleased to say that a big part of the solution is here. parliament has already called for a reform of the eu list of tax havens. that would have saved us much embarrassment this week. we now call for the reform of the code of conduct group, and i thank our rapporteur, aurore lalucq, and the shadows for bringing this good report to parliament. parliament wants to bring the discussions in the code of conduct group into the open to make them transparent, so that citizens can hold their representatives to account. we want to extend the discussions to personal income tax, as competition for the global elite intensifies by the day. we also want to ban measures allowing companies to pay less tax than the internationally agreed minimum of 15%, so that all pay their fair share. good proposals have been ignored before; look what this has brought us. please, avoid the embarrassment, end tax avoidance. we need these reforms.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are voting on today comes at an opportune time, as the pandora papers remind us that much remains to be done to combat tax evasion. this report allows us to affirm the european parliament's support for stronger action against unfair tax competition between member states. before we can demand exemplary behaviour from third countries, we must have the same requirement within the union. this is the subject of our code of conduct, a regulatory instrument which should be binding if circumstances so require and whose scope should be extended. in an internal market that allows for mobility, profits and investment, the tax union is the missing piece in the puzzle. actors who want to avoid taxation are exploiting our differences and weakening us vis-à-vis our international competitors. we're competing with each other when we should be fighting. this competition, along with the practice of massive tax evasion to tax havens, undermines citizens' trust and tarnishes europe's credibility. unfortunately, the will to move forward is hampered by the difficulty of the unanimity rule in the council, which we must put an end to in tax matters, as we must no doubt do in other matters. it is not a simple matter of procedure; it is, on the contrary, a profound reflection of our conception of european integration. are we simply the sum of 27 states, each of which could block progress at any time? i don't think it was. we are a community of destiny, which must be able to express strong and majority positions, particularly on this subject, which is at the heart of the concerns of european citizens.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate ms lalucq on her report, which exposes the absurdity of the current tax model and suggests ways of doing something about it. frankly, how can we accept the opacity in which tax rules are decided in the union? we have to be honest with each other. the problem is that some of the adults in the "code of conduct" group are accomplices of the states that speculate on tax evasion. the new pandora papers scandal illustrates our de facto complicity with the thugs who organize to evade taxes. they are the same ones responsible for laundering money for mafia and terrorist networks. these are the same people who speculate on environmental predation, carbon, deforestation or industrial fishing. we must hunt down and eliminate tax havens inside and outside the european union. there can be no climate justice without fiscal justice. the adults in the cheating room need to be taken out of the room and put in their proper place: in front of the judges.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that unfair tax regimes in some member states, such as tax rescripts or tax facilities for non-residents, persist despite the establishment of the code of conduct group in 1998, whose role was to identify aggressive tax optimisation practices. the reform of this group is now a matter of consensus, but the accumulated delay is regrettable. the informal and nebulous functioning of this group must give way to an elected committee involving the european parliament and making its deliberations public. this working group has for years been resisted by four member states which have turned to tax relief for multinationals, and we should not be afraid to mention them: luxembourg, the netherlands, belgium and ireland. the consequences of this inaction are many: tax shopping by multinationals within the single market, the effective level of taxation of large multinationals much lower than that of our smes, considerable tax losses for several member states, including france, and wild relocations within europe. however, i warn against a shift of decision-making power to non-state actors undermining tax sovereignty, which belongs only to the member states. in conclusion, i agree with several of the reforms proposed in this report: integrating the income of natural persons into the system of supervision, defining a minimum tax rate below which tax practices would be considered harmful, or specifying a criterion of economic substance. however, the revision of these rules must be accompanied by a reform of the code of conduct group, which should not become a supranational tool, but a courageous body of experts in establishing guidelines to ensure fair tax incentives.
member of the commission. – mr president, after these two debates in connected and parallel issues, i think we are all aware of the need in this post-pandemic – well, post-pandemic at the moment in europe, not at a global level – to face worsening economic and social conditions for many citizens, especially in vulnerable households, low-income countries, and so the fact of an unequal distribution of wealth with wrong or illegal behaviours is less acceptable than ever. as policymakers, we have to act and i thank the european parliament again for having organised these two parallel discussions. we mentioned several initiatives that we will table in the next weeks and months. we count on your support among these initiatives. also, the ongoing activity to enlarge the scope of the mandate of the code of conduct is absolutely essential, because we see after more than 20 years that this activity was very useful but is also facing growing limits so we have to go beyond. et enfin, je voudrais remercier la rapporteure, aurore lalucq, pour le travail qui a été fait sur ce rapport. je pense qu’il servira de base à une très bonne coopération entre la commission et le parlement.
the debate is closed. the debate on the amendments will take place today and the final vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 7 october 2021.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the state of play with regard to the submitted recovery plans for the octs pending approval (2021/2911 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the timing of this debate gives me the opportunity to tell you in person that, with the positive assessment of the finnish and estonian recovery and resilience plans on monday and tuesday, the commission has by now approved 22 out of 25 plans submitted. as you know, the netherlands and bulgaria have still not submitted their plans, but we are in close contact with these authorities. the council has adopted 19 of the 22 implementing decisions. we aim to complete the assessment of the three remaining plans as soon as possible, and we are working constructively with the national authorities to conclude the assessment. with more than eur 51 billion of pre-financing paid to the first 16 member states, we have provided them with the support needed on their pathway to recovery, and we expect the first regular payment requests this year. this requires member states to have fully met the reform and investment commitments that are linked to the respective instalment and provides the underlying evidence. in this regard, the commission will share with parliament the findings of the preliminary assessment in relation to the satisfactory fulfilment of milestones and targets. the implementation of the recovery and resilience facility will continue to be a large enterprise. together, we have set out a strong governance for the facility that builds on three principles: ownership, accountability and transparency. transparency first. the commission is committed to ensure a transparent process, and we do our best to provide you with the information needed to follow the implementation. constant dialogue with parliament is crucial for the success of plans that are the result of courageous decisions in the face of an unprecedented and dramatic situation. together with valdis dombrovskis, we have exchanged views with the parliament at the regular recovery and resilience dialogues. in addition, the commission holds regular exchanges with the recovery and resilience facility working group on various topics. throughout the process, we have taken into account in our work the elements arising from the views expressed by parliament, and we are committed to continue to do so. the assessment of the polish, hungarian and swedish plans is ongoing. as the commission has mentioned consistently on previous occasions, also for other member states, it is not in a position to provide its views on a specific plan or share a pre—assessment. as for all plans, our assessment is based on the clear and solid criteria provided by the rrf regulation. we will continue to provide an overview of the factual elements of the plans received, as well as a summary of our assessment once our proposals for council implementing decisions are adopted. second, accountability. let me come back to the second principle. the success of the facility will be measured against the effective use of taxpayers’ money and its ability to deliver a lasting improvement to our economic and social resilience and our sustainable growth potential. the reform and investment commitments that we are still negotiating for the three plans will serve as the yardstick for their implementation. the commission also takes the protection of the eu’s financial interests very seriously. the rrf, as all other eu funds, must be implemented in accordance with the financial regulation and the regulation on a general regime of conditionality for the protection of the union budget. for 16 member states, the council implementing decisions provide for specific milestones in relation to control systems. those milestones are of a special nature in that they need to be fulfilled before the first regular payment requests can be made, of course with the exceptions of pre-financing. they concern a wide range of issues, such as anti-corruption, anti-fraud, access to data or simply proper administrative capacity for the audit body. third point: ownership. this goes back to the ethos of the facility. the recovery and resilience plans are a new exercise that rest on a combination of strong national ownership and commitment to embrace our joint challenges, the green and digital transitions, together. member states designed their own recovery and resilience plans, but they have to make sure that the reforms and investment therein are anchored in the common policy priorities and the country-specific recommendations agreed in the framework of the european semester. it is another key assessment criteria that recovery and resilience plans need to address the relevant challenges identified in the csr or at least a significant subset. you have already heard this formula many times, but we insist on it because it is our regulation. ownership does not stop at the national level. the implementation of the recovery and resilience plan can only succeed with strong regional and local ownership, as well as support from social partners and civil society at every stage of the implementation, and we have communicated this clearly to member states. let me underline that the commission strives to uphold the rule of law. our union needs to be a place where everyone is held accountable and corruption is fought, where the financial interests of the eu are protected, where all people and businesses alike are equal under the law, and where the independence of the judiciary is ensured. we have concerns about the situation in some member states. i can assure you that the commission will continue to act with determination to defend these principles and values with full respect for our legal frameworks. the recovery and resilience facility is about promoting the green and digital transition, making our union more resilient and our next generation fit for future challenges, but these efforts can only gain traction if we ensure that our next generation can thrive.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome the commissioner to parliament; welcome to this debate. we are here because we need transparency on all the expenditures coming from the recovery and resilience facility: eur 672.5 billion. this is the biggest package of economic recovery ever created by the european union. we need to make sure that money reaches the intended beneficiaries. we need to make sure that money reaches people in need and reaches enterprises in need, reaches regions in need, and that all the rules are respected. commissioner, you may very well remember that during our negotiations for the recovery and resilience facility, one of the primary concerns of this parliament was respect for the rule of law. we said money can only flow because this is taxpayers’ money, because the commission went to the markets to borrow the money. we are all putting ourselves, our taxpayers, in debt for it. money can only flow if rules, if the rule of law, if european values, are respected, and parliament was united on this with a very large majority. this is why we need to know more about the plans that have not yet been adopted. you have mentioned hungary, poland and sweden. we see that the polish government is threatening the commission to start blocking files which should be agreed in a consent procedure. this while they further attack the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. this in itself is an attack upon our democratic institutions, our way of work, and to us it means that it has to be clarified. democratic scrutiny is a condition, and the european parliament, the representatives of the people, have to be informed in detail about where we stand because the people in all member states – including in the countries where we know there are problems, but you have to provide us with more details – the people in all countries expect money from the recovery and resilience facility to fund the improvement of education, the improvement of public administration, the modernisation of the healthcare system, tackling pollution, reducing electricity bills, improving air quality infrastructure and so on. so we need to make sure that the money is well spent, that no corrupt entity has access to these funds. commissioner, we expect more from you during the debate today and also in the upcoming days and weeks.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. this is great news for everyone, but it is not the case for hungary and poland. they presented their plans in may. they had to ask for extensions, which, if i'm not mistaken, have also expired. so we are obviously concerned about what is happening with these plans, because it is clear to everyone that at least part of these delays are due to respect for the rule of law, and obviously, as rapporteur responsible for the conditionality mechanism and the recovery plan, i am very concerned about what is happening and where we are. because the issues in the debate are very serious. we are talking about the fight against corruption, the need for changes in the public procurement system, transparency in information on final recipients and, of course, non-discrimination in access to funds. we are even talking about something that seems incredible: the acceptance of the primacy of european law. and given the history of disregard for the rule of law and the unwillingness of these governments to play by the rules, it is very, very difficult to think about the possible approval of the plans. because as things stand, they do not meet some of the country recommendations or criterion 10 of the regulation on the prevention, detection and correction of fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest. and it would also be a bit counterproductive for us to approve the plans on the one hand and then proceed to sanction the same countries through the rule of law mechanism. you are not, you are in the evaluation phase and you cannot say anything, so at least this debate will serve to enable this parliament to say what its position is on these recovery plans.
mr president, commissioner, the truth is that at this stage in the implementation and development of the recovery and resilience mechanism, we must be pleased with how this instrument has worked so far, how we managed to reach an agreement at the end of last year between the council and parliament and how the commission has been deploying an instrument that is working well, that is allowing for the issuing of this next generation eu debt at very low rates, with great support from the financial sector and with a procedure for evaluating plans and monitoring that is working reasonably well. but it is true that, as has been said in other speeches, we still have serious problems in at least two countries. i also think it was a very good idea for this parliament to introduce democratic conditionality into the recovery and resilience mechanism regulation and not just to be on the lookout for the implementation of the specific democratic conditionality regulation - which was negotiated, incidentally, at the same time - because that regulation is sadly sitting on hold awaiting the opinion of the court of justice of the european union, with a more than debatable decision. but in any case, the conditionality of this regulation is making it possible to put the polish and hungarian governments in their place. i would ask the commission to continue this, to keep up the pressure. we see some positive symptoms in some of these governments. let's hope they confirm. and this instrument will certainly help us not only to finance recovery but also to uphold the principles of the rule of law throughout the union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are hearing rumours that the commission is about to approve the hungarian and polish recovery plans. but frankly, are we really going to send the president to shake hands with viktor orbán and his polish henchman? there are still anti-lgbti zones in these states, zones that attack the most basic rights of europeans because of who they are. but these zones are being dismantled one after the other, thanks to the threats of sanctions and, it must be said, thanks to the pressure of the european parliament. it would be absurd to stop halfway, when orbán has still not withdrawn his homophobic law. i say it again: i will not accept, we will not accept that our values continue to be trampled on and that europe continues to finance the illiberals. so i have a very simple question, commissioner: can the commission give public assurances that the widespread corruption set up by orbán will end? can the commission ensure that the ultraconservatives will no longer discriminate against their citizens and will stop punishing judges, forcing them to retire, buying up the media, having independent journalists fired and enriching their childhood friends with public funds? these conditions are absolutely essential, they are the outgrowth of our democratic principles and our principles of good management of public money. it is on this basis that we will all be judged collectively when the time comes for us to take stock. but for now, what we're seeing is the counter-powers collapsing one after the other. i sincerely believe that europe is the last bulwark against the establishment of kleptocracies in the heart of our continent. if she doesn't act, who will, i ask you? commissioner, let me be very clear: this money is for the hungarians and the poles; that is why we refuse that orbán and kaczyński divert this aid to enrich their relatives, and we refuse that they continue to punish judges who defend fundamental freedoms. ladies and gentlemen, 43 billion is the amount for hungary and poland. the 43 billion will only be returned to them if these governments provide the necessary democratic guarantees. it should be no different for the defenders of democracy.
mr president, on 27 april 2021, a new law was adopted in hungary. it created a legal framework for public interest trusts performing public duties. more and more public services are being transferred. the boards of these trusts include current ministers and state secretaries. public assets are being donated to private entities, and opacity will prevent any scrutiny on the use of the budget in these foundations. these trusts do not need to apply rules of public procurement. this is happening in a context where access to public information in hungary has become near to impossible and in a member state which has a hugely sad record of corruption in the european union. we fail to understand why this is not raising concern about how european money will be channelled into these structures. is this a conscious strategy from the hungarian government to transform public institutions into opaque structures? if the european commission approves the hungarian recovery and resilience plan, billions of euros could disappear into this opaque system.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the question of own resources and the repayment of the loan, which is far from settled, i am very concerned about the allocation of european funds. first of all, i condemn this form of blackmail against the hungarian and polish governments. economic recovery is now the top priority and funds must be allocated without political considerations. the commission must not, and cannot, be responsible for additional unemployed people, citizens whose lives will be completely disrupted on the sole basis of the values of article 2 tfeu which allow it to exercise its political control. i urge the european executive to return to a sense of responsibility and to work for the european citizens. the consequence is that member states, such as hungary, will finance themselves on the financial markets. this situation also highlights a power struggle within the european institutions. parliament now wants to assess the hungarian and polish recovery plans, which is unacceptable interference. for several months now, parliament has been constantly abusing its role of control in the implementation of the recovery plan, by putting pressure on the commission to influence the evaluation process, which is contrary to the regulation of the plan. as regards own resources, the european commission's reversal on 12 july, when it announced the postponement of its digital tax proposal, puts the financial architecture of the next generation plan at risk. the visit of janet yellen was enough to make the commission bend, which tells us that it wishes to wait for the end of the negotiations at the oecd. this argument is not valid, because a proposal by the union on this subject put the union in a strong position. the most worrying thing is that the commission has ignored the institutional agreement, which is extremely serious from a legal point of view. the commission has to make proposals on two other own resources projects: the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders and carbon emission quotas, which are issues with other issues. if these two projects are also postponed, the question of funding will become a pressing one and the contribution of the member states will, unfortunately, become an increasingly probable hypothesis.
i have to solve one problem, but i will solve it.
mr president, i think that, before me, my colleague from the left should be allowed to speak in this chamber, notwithstanding the fact that he has a message on his t-shirt. it is a message against racism, which is very important in this day and age, and he is not able to speak. i think that this is anti-democratic in a democratic chamber, which allows the voice of everyone to be heard from the left to the right. that does not matter. we should all be allowed to speak in this chamber and be allowed to hold our mandate as we have been elected to do. but, on this file, which is an important file and i congratulate elena for her tireless work and for pushing forward a text which strengthens the european asylum support office (easo) by turning it into a fully—fledged agency, one which is vital in its help to member states and their work with asylum seekers and refugees. finally, we are here to conclude this file, a file negotiated firstly under the maltese presidency four years ago, a file where, as parliament, commission and council, we had already found compromise. however, as per usual, the file was stalled due to political reasons, and elena and her work showed that we can find a way forward on migration legislation together. as a maltese member of this european parliament, this legislation means a lot to me, not only because i come from the smallest eu member state, which also happens to be at the frontline of migration, but also because the offices of easo are situated in our grand harbour in malta, which for centuries was a port of refuge for many, including, as the bible says, saint paul in the year 60 ad. i want to focus my intervention today on the fundamental rights aspect of our new agency. having visited easo last week with s&d colleagues, we had the opportunity to discuss the future of easo with the management, and i was pleased to see the extra emphasis the office is giving to intersectionality through their training, such as those focused on gender and sexuality. but the best way to ensure fundamental rights are fully protected is by implementing through concrete solidarity. our call, as progressives, is clear. it is unacceptable that all the responsibility vis-à-vis migration falls on the shoulders of a few member states. as others said this morning, the monitoring mechanism implementation in easo is conditioned by the dublin negotiations, but this should only strengthen our resolve to come together and make this mandate where we finally finalise a solution to our common migration challenges.
i would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, why the debate on this page has become a little more lively and why i did not ignore mr urbán crespo when he spoke, but asked him to clarify a question. you know that all members, men and women, can of course always exercise their right to speak, provided they respect the rules of procedure. and we had a debate here in the bureau about whether the clothing was consistent with the ban on wearing and hanging banners. i'm sorry, i had to withdraw my speech for today. we have a clear code of conduct in our rules of procedure: members are not to disturb the order of the house, nor are they to disturb it, nor are they to behave inappropriately. they do not display banners, whether they are held up or on clothing. secondly, i was accused of some strange behaviour from afar for this business-like check with hand signals here, so i wanted to clarify that. mr urbán crespo believes that his garment has nothing to do with the speech and should not be equated with a banner. i ask him to take account of the rules of procedure when choosing his clothes and i give him the floor. i think it is urgent that the rules of procedure be revised. we have them not just to write them down and not to comply with them, but we have them to have a basis for ensuring that the house is run properly and that all members of this house are treated equally. these questions have been clarified by the services and i ask mr urbán crespo to speak after that clarification.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, i would like to thank the members who have made it possible for us to speak in this parliament with a t-shirt from the madrid carpet-workers' union that speaks against racism, which is not a banner. just as in this parliament you can speak in branded t-shirts and no one raises any problems. what's the problem? that we are here promoting the union of handymen, the assembly without papers and a message they have? or that we carry the one of a brand: nike, adidas or others? we really must have it looked at, because in theory this is the supposed home of european democracy. if anti-racism is not to be found in the house of european democracy, let us look at it. comrades, assisting the member states to ensure that each asylum seeker has a personalised, individualised, rigorous and resourceful care, this, and not others, should be the aim of a european asylum agency. however, what we are presented with is a proposal, in our view, cut short, which abolishes basic elements of border control and surveillance at the request of countries such as greece, italy or spain. a proposal whose main objective is to encourage the expulsion of unsafe transit countries, which we believe is contrary to all international rules and jeopardizes the right to asylum in europe. it is a paradigm of european migration policy that an asylum agency like this has far fewer resources than an agency like frontex. but what can we expect from a european migration policy which allows countries like greece to suspend the right to asylum in practice many times or governments like spain to illegally deport unaccompanied minors in ceuta? a european asylum agency must serve refugees in accordance with international law and human rights. any other proposal will not have our support.
before we continue the debate, i shall open the first round of votes today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.45 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. the same voting procedure will be used as in the previous rounds of voting, all of which you are already familiar with. all votes are by name. i declare the voting open and ask all members to vote by 11 a.m. at the latest. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue the debate on the report by mrs elena yoncheva (a8-0392/2016).
madam president, you will understand that i, as the vice-president of the european parliament currently holding the presidency, am very clear that the bureau has reviewed the rules of procedure, has applied them and has not withdrawn its right to speak, but that mr urbán crespo has entered the chamber as he did today. but it is part of the legal community that we are, that if we have any doubts, we check so that every colleague is equal before the rules of procedure. the rules of procedure were examined. i am not saying that this is a bad thing, but i am saying that it is a bad thing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for an agency to replace the present european asylum support office is a step forward after years of stalemate on migration at european level. but we must not get too excited because today, after numerous migration and humanitarian crises in all the neighbouring continents, the european union has not yet developed a real migration policy with which to welcome and integrate only those who are entitled to do so. the facts of afghanistan should make us even more aware that we do not have a strong common foreign policy, including a structured migration policy. the new agency is clearly intended to support national systems to facilitate and streamline asylum procedures and make them uniform, but we are faced with a measure which will serve to give a momentary respite, especially to the states which for years have been bearing the brunt of all the arrivals of migrants to our continent. we actually need a sustainable long-term solution. the union must give a strong signal of credibility in the field of migration, because citizens are asking us for concrete measures that can only be implemented through a single package of community policies. we hope, however, that this agency will be a first step towards a more significant change in terms of a common migration and asylum policy, and above all we believe that this agency can also serve to stimulate a different culture and approach in all the member states, so that they understand that the burden of arrivals must be shared by all and that it is necessary to be solidarity and not loneliness.
mr president, the european union will finally have a genuine asylum agency. i would like to congratulate my colleague and comrade elena yoncheva on the excellent result achieved in a field which is always very sensitive in relations with the member states. at a time when the negotiations on the asylum and migration pact are proceeding with some difficulty, this agreement is helping to shed new light on the field of migration and asylum, which cannot be limited to the management of external borders and returns. in this respect, the comparison between frontex, which will recruit 10,000 coastguards, and the european asylum support office (easo), as it was formerly known, with its 500 experts, was almost indecent. it was therefore time to create a genuine agency, with sufficient human and financial resources to support the implementation of asylum and reception policy. however, this is obviously not just a question of budget and human resources, which is very important. eaaso had been working within its mandate for a long time, despite a growing need for support from member states. i want to mention two new tasks that are necessary for the tangible change they will bring to the ground. firstly, the agency will be able to deepen and formalise its involvement in the distribution and resettlement of asylum seekers and refugees. this is a very timely development in the context of the recent situation in afghanistan and the high-level forum on their protection which is due to take place this afternoon. secondly, it will also have to monitor the implementation of asylum policies in the member states, which should oblige them to improve reception conditions and respect the fundamental rights of asylum seekers. this is essential if we are to change the situation at our borders and put an end to the pushback. this new agency makes a positive reform of the european asylum system possible, because it is proof that we can count on meaningful solidarity and practical support to the member states.
mr president, we european greens have long called for the creation of a genuine european asylum agency. the fact that its mandate does not enter into force as soon as it is adopted is, however, significant. the manicheanism of european migration policies is becoming more and more indigestible. member states are always in a hurry to implement restrictive legislation, but they demand time limits when it comes to protecting the fundamental rights of exiles. the budget of frontex is being doubled, despite the many things it is accused of, but the member states are negotiating until the end with meagre deadlines for the establishment of a fundamental rights officer and a complaints mechanism. strong with the weak, weak with the strong: this is the motto of the european union and its member states. in france, it is to over-militarize the border with the united kingdom; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: human rights watch denounces these conditions once again in a report this morning. in italy, it is to condemn to 15 years in prison mimmo lucano, the former mayor of riace, who devoted his mandate to a dignified welcome of the exiles, while a far-right activist who shot at exiles is sentenced to only 12 years. in denmark, it is confiscating the property of refugees upon arrival in the country; it is to offer barbed wire to lithuania for its anti-migrant fence. in poland, it means declaring a state of emergency at the border to put a lid on a humanitarian and human scandal: exiles left abandoned, without food, without shelter. six people are dead. how long before the european union acts decisively? if that's what european solidarity is, we'll get by without it, thank you very much. you think you're flattering your constituents, but you're only stirring up hatred. in france, italy and throughout europe, citizens, volunteers and associations are outraged. they tell me, they call us. they're ashamed of me, too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is intolerable. the facts are hideous. we know the facts and figures: over 1,000 people killed, over 8,000 imprisoned and, above all, hundreds of thousands of displaced people and even more burmese citizens threatened today with extreme poverty, if not worse. but there is something, as this house sees it, that is even more unbearable for us as meps: our impotence. because we have to name things, we are powerless. of course we can and we must - as many of our colleagues have just said - increase economic sanctions, restrict access to our market. of course, but it won't really matter and we know that. so, in the face of a situation like that in myanmar, eritrea and tigray, which we discussed yesterday, it is clear that we need a european union which is an actor on the international scene and which can really weigh, not only in terms of its economy, not only in terms of its condemnation, but also in terms of its military and diplomatic weight on the international scene. these events are a reminder! today we agree on the idea of european defence, but let us now move on to action.
madam president, seriously, ladies and gentlemen, are we there yet? there is still debate as to whether or not women have the right to control their own bodies. is there any evidence that members - particularly on this side of the house - are still opposed to the right to abortion? - you mean it? it's your friends in texas who tried to ban women from having abortions after six weeks, even though they don't know they're pregnant yet. in poland, your friends forbid ivf even if the fetus is malformed and therefore force women to be living coffins. are we still on? you don't want an abortion? well, don't abort, but let women choose and decide. women everywhere are opposing you with their voices: in chile, in mexico, in san marino. this morning, we got some good news from texas, informing us that the anti-abortion law was suspended. abortion is a fundamental right. let women use it when they want, where they want, how they want. our bodies, our choices, our rights.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we celebrated the right to abortion day just a week ago. we are again talking today about restrictions on these rights. yet we know that when abortion is forbidden, it is still practiced, because when a woman does not want to go through with the pregnancy, for whatever reason, that woman is her own body, her own choice, her own rights. so we are talking, not about european union interference in something in the united states, but about fundamental human rights, including women. so i ask you all, as we showed in june, to vote very clearly to send a message: these are our bodies, these are our rights, these are our choices. we have shown this with the report on sexual and reproductive rights, where we also discussed abortion. a woman who doesn't want to have an abortion can have one, and i completely respect her conclusions and beliefs. however, we are here to ensure a society in which everyone is equal and free to live their lives as they see fit. so, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to affirm with courage and firmness, by voting for this resolution: the right to abortion is a fundamental right for women's autonomy and self-determination. there's no room for backsliding in europe or texas. women of texas, we stand with you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we know that reactionary and subversive governments always attack the rights of everyone. but they always start, and history teaches us that, with women's rights. the reactionaries don't like women to be free, the reactionaries don't like women to be able to choose, whether it's their career, their love, their body, and yes, their life. this law, which is a murderer of freedom and which has been rightly suspended pending a review of its constitutionality, is an example of what can happen and a warning to us that we must never let our guard down, not even here, not even in our european union. we, ladies and gentlemen, know this, we know this, we are fighting every day here to defend women and their fundamental rights and we are still ready to offer our help to the women and also to the men of texas who want to live in a state of law, where their freedoms are guaranteed and where there is no return to the middle ages and the witch-hunts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, voluntary termination of pregnancy should be accessible and safe everywhere and this parliament has recognised this on several occasions, calling interference with access to abortion a serious violation of human rights. the texas law deprived women of the ability to make independent decisions about their reproductive health and their own bodies. the most insidious provision allows even private citizens to become vigilantes, reporting anyone who helps or facilitates an abortion, with fines of up to $10,000. this shows that this law has nothing to do with science, with ethics, with health and rights, but with the power and control of women's bodily autonomy that you want to crush and eliminate. this provision also limits its application to civil matters, thereby avoiding the risk of a declaration of unconstitutionality against the rule of law and is already opening up, unfortunately, a sad path for other anti-abortion states in our europe too. how can we stand by silently while ultraconservative governments in one of our main allies strip women of their basic rights? we must therefore join with all those who denounce this unprecedented assault on reproductive rights and mobilize all our diplomatic tools to stop the erosion of women's freedom and autonomy, because this is what we are talking about: the european union is a party to the convention on the rights of the child.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this timely discussion on the texas senate bill relating to abortion. ensuring the full enjoyment of sexual and reproductive health and rights means enabling women and girls to make decisions about their bodies free from discrimination, coercion and violence. in relation to health services, the eu supports the promotion, protection and fulfilment of rights to autonomy in decision making, as well as the right to informed consent and confidentiality. the texas senate bill that you bring to our discussion table today restricts access to abortion services to as early as six weeks of pregnancy. further, it makes no exceptions – no exceptions – for pregnancies resulting from incest or rape, which could have serious implications for the physical and mental health and well-being of the women affected. this law, which went into effect on 1 september, has the potential of barring at least 85% of abortions from the state of texas. it also uses a private enforcement scheme by tasking private individuals to bring loose lawsuits against anyone who provides or aids an abortion, in fact empowering complete strangers to interfere in the most private and personal health decisions of a woman. the commission and the high representative trust that the us authorities will take all necessary steps to ensure that women in texas have access to safe and legal abortions, and welcomes the biden administration’s intent to launch a ‘whole—of—government’ effort to that end. as a matter of fact, there have been developments overnight in the ongoing legal proceedings, which have blocked the texas law, forbidding texas state court judges to accept suits under the texas senate bill. this is a welcome development. we also welcome the establishment of a gender policy council to advance gender equity and equality by increasing access to health care, addressing health disparities and promoting sexual and reproductive health and rights, and acknowledge the biden administration’s strong efforts to promote sexual and reproductive health and rights in the us and around the world. in our bilateral relations with the us, we engage in a comprehensive and open discussion on human rights, including on sexual and reproductive health rights in the us and the eu. in our action plans, the eu has committed to scaling up action to achieve and direct gender equality, and to protect and promote the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights by women and girls. we encourage our partners to adopt a similarly open and positive approach to this vital issue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i share the values in the resolution but do not think it is possible to vote in favour of it. the united states is a democratic and well-functioning state of law, with a judiciary that is independent of the executive. i feel that if i voted for the resolution, it would express my distrust of the functioning of institutions in the united states and it would not reflect my understanding of american democracy. therefore, i do not consider it appropriate to accept it. i voted against it.
i will now move to the second voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 13.45 until 15.00. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare the second voting session open. you have until 15.00 to vote. the results of the second voting session will be announced at 16.30.
i have two announcements. mr sven schulze has been appointed as a member of the regional government of saxony—anhalt. parliament takes note that his seat has become vacant with effect from 29 september 2021.
the second announcement: the president has received from the council its position at first reading, as well as the reasons which led to its adoption and the positions and opinions of the commission. the title will be listed in the minutes of this sitting. the three—month period available to parliament to adopt its position will therefore begin to run from tomorrow, 8 october 2021. (the sitting was suspended at 13.47)
ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of 7 october will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next partsession. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 7 october 2021.
the minutes and texts adopted at the sittings of 4, 5, 6 and 7 october were distributed. i understand that there are no comments and therefore i will declare the minutes approved.
the president has received notification from the competent authorities in germany of the election of ms karolin braunsberger-reinhold as a member of the european parliament to replace mr sven schulze with effect from 7 october 2021. the president wishes to welcome the new member and indicates that she will take up her seat in parliament and its bodies in order to enjoy her rights fully as provided for in the rules of procedure. following the resignation of mr norbert neuser, parliament takes note that, in accordance with its rules of procedure, its seat will be vacant as from 11 january 2022 and will inform the national authority concerned accordingly.
the president received a request from the competent authorities in greece for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr ioannis lagos in order to open criminal proceedings against him. this request is referred to parliament's committee on legal affairs, as the committee responsible, in accordance with the rules of procedure.
the s&d and id groups informed the president about decisions related to changes in appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and shall enter into force on the date of this announcement.
following the creation of the delegation to the eu-uk parliamentary assembly, i received nominations for this delegation from the political groups and the unaffiliated members in accordance with rule 223 of the rules of procedure. the list of the nominative composition of the new interparliamentary delegation is published on parliament's website and annexed to the minutes.
several committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, in accordance with rule 71 (1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for these negotiations, are available on the plenary website and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. in accordance with article 71 (2), a number of members or a political group or groups reaching at least the average threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 19 october 2021 at 24. 00, to vote on decisions to enter into negotiations. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decisions to open negotiations is made by the deadline referred to above, the committees may open negotiations.
i would like to inform you that on wednesday the president, together with the president of the council, will sign two acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament's rules of procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents on 14 october 2021 in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, is distributed. i would like to inform you that the votes were divided between the various voting sessions, according to the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for split and separate votes. please note that this breakdown may change at any time. the relevant information regarding the distribution of votes is available on parliament's website under the section 'priority information'. i would also like to inform you that the winner of the 2021 sakharov prize will be announced on wednesday at 3.00 p.m. the agenda has been approved and the order of business is set.
i would now like to inform the house that i have received requests for points of order. i will give the floor to the following colleagues. first of all to colleague salima yenbou, for one minute.
madam president, i have asked for this item today because i wanted to draw your attention to the very serious events that took place ten days ago at the meeting of young europeans in strasbourg, here in our institution. unfortunately - and this is not the first time - diverse groups of young people have been targeted by verbal abuse and hate speech online. their workshops on inclusion and anti-racism were interrupted and disrupted by nasty comments and mockery from other participants invited by far-right mps. this morning you received a letter signed by 152 members of the european parliament in which we strongly condemn these episodes. we call on you, madam president, to condemn these events formally as well. we therefore call for an inquiry by parliament to determine the extent to which these serious events took place, to identify the parties responsible and to determine whether these disturbances were premeditated and organised. we also ask that those responsible be held accountable for their actions. the european parliament and its members should be a model of respect and tolerance. everyone has the right to hold his own political beliefs and convictions, but these must be exercised with full respect for others. that is why i ask you, madam president, to join me and all the members who have signed this letter, but especially the young people who have been affected and who are crying out for a real voice, to actively defend our values and commitments and to follow up our statements with action.
i will now give the floor to colleague nicolaus fest, also for one minute.
first of all, i would like to inform you that the services and the president are aware of these unfortunate incidents, and there will be an investigation and follow—up by the president. that’s a message to all the colleagues here.
the next item is the debate on the report of by anja hazekamp, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and herbert dorfmann, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on a farm to fork strategy for a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system (2020/2260(ini)) (a9-0271/2021).
rapporteur. – madam president, today we are talking about food, about the vital energy source that fuels us. much like the fuels that feed our factories and cars, our food system must undergo a transition because the way we are feeding ourselves today is undermining our future. we have already far exceeded the carrying capacity of the earth. our current food production and consumption is responsible for about a third of all our greenhouse gas emissions and an even greater proportion of biodiversity loss. i am grateful to the commission for delivering the farm to fork strategy. this prelude to crucial changes in our legislation and policy did not come a day too soon. its goals and ambitions are necessary to transform our thinking and our actions with regard to food. i am also grateful to my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development and, in particular, mr herbert dorfmann, my fellow rapporteur, for their dedication to working on our response to this strategy. we have discussed our positions, our ideas and proposals for the future development of the strategy in an open and inclusive process. and i am proud of the result. it is no secret that i believe that our joint response could, and should, have been far more ambitious on many issues, but our report offers hope. hope for a liveable future in which the foods that we consume will no longer be produced at the expense of future generations. they too will need food security. by setting targets for the use of pesticides and promoting the development of environmentally friendly alternatives, we can halt the decline of crucial pollinators, such as bees. by strengthening the animal welfare legislation, we can reduce the worst suffering that goes on behind the closed doors of barns, trucks, ships and slaughterhouses. by investing in a transition to a more plant—based diet, we can spare animals the suffering, fight food—related disease, save precious farmland and biodiversity, and limit the climate impact of what is on our plates. by providing food with clear labels and a fair and true price, we can enable consumers to make more informed choices for the environment, animals and their own health. the sustainable choice must be the most affordable one. crucially, the eu’s farm to fork strategy must create a path for a common food policy which achieves policy coherence. for example, we cannot truly restore biodiversity or successfully achieve a protein transition while we are still heavily subsidising the intensive animal agriculture industry and signing free trade agreements (ftas) that directly contradict these goals. by extending the rules we set for food to imported products, we protect our farmers from unfair competition. by investing in and sharing knowledge, we enable farmers to produce more sustainably and by redirecting the very significant agricultural funds to support truly sustainable agricultural practices, we will encourage the preservation of small farms that work with nature. with these proposals, i am convinced that our report offers a good starting point for the commission to shape the legislative proposals that it has announced. i look forward to our continued work on aligning our food system with the planetary boundaries.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission put its strategy 'from the court' on the table almost a year and a half ago, and we have been working very hard in this house over the past few months to produce a report, a response to this strategy. i would like to begin by thanking my co-rapporteur, mrs anja hazekamp, and the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for the very intensive work and also for the constructive cooperation we have had over the past few months. i think that if this is the case and if the aim is to make the food chain in europe as a whole more high-quality and to make food more balanced and also healthier, then we find a great deal of agreement here. but unfortunately the strategy presented by the commission - although it aims to look at the whole food chain from farmer to table - very often remains in agriculture. all the numerical reduction targets - wherever they have been set in numerical terms - concern agriculture, and indeed there are some along the chain - i am thinking of trade, i am thinking of consumers - many things where we could set much more concrete targets. i am thinking, for example, of the distribution of value added along the chain, where it is very clear that agriculture is coming under increasing pressure and trade is cutting out the larger part. but nevertheless, of course, reduction targets are also important and correct in agriculture - when it comes to plant protection products, when it comes to fertilisers, when it comes to antibiotics. but it needs alternatives to what's happening today. for us to have alternatives, we need research and development. and these alternatives must also be available in agriculture. it requires a balance between food security, security of supply on the one hand, and the pursuit of greater sustainability on the other. i think the covid-19 crisis of the last month, of the last year and a half, has shown how important food sovereignty is on our continent and in the european union. let me make something very clear here: the commission has had at its disposal since the beginning of this year a study which it itself commissioned and which was carried out by the commission's joint research centre. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has not yet published the results of the study, which is a very serious matter. that is not the way to deal with parliament. this is not the way. if we want to have an honest and transparent debate, we need to have all the facts on the table. that was not the case in this case. i am also very sorry that a section of this house has refused to discuss this incident in detail in this house. i think transparency is not good if everyone fits into the concept. but still: we have addressed many things in our work, in our report - many things from the point of view of agriculture, the link with the common agricultural policy, the question: how can sustainability be brought into agriculture as a whole, not only with organic farming, but also? what is the role of integrated pest management, for example? all the things that are important to achieve our contribution to the climate goals. but above all, there is one very important element, and that is the consumer. the consumer's purchasing decisions will ultimately determine whether this strategy will be successful. every day, as he walks into the supermarket, he decides what to buy and how to make that strategy work.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on the basis of the opinion of the committee on international trade. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the committee on international trade, i would first like to thank all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their work on a dossier which must become a pillar of the european green deal. we believe, however, commissioner, that the achievement of the objectives of the farm to fork strategy cannot be separated from our trade policy. the union will have to play a leading role in the global transition towards production standards based on respect for human and workers' rights, fair competition and environmental protection. we therefore need genuine reciprocity of standards for all products imported into the union. we must avoid the risk that the farm to fork strategy will reduce our productive potential, opening the door to imports which would not contribute to the objectives it sets. we also call for binding sustainable development clauses in all our trade agreements. we are also dissatisfied with the commission's statements this morning. we need an ex ante assessment of the combined impact of all the targets and proposals which are proportionate to the achievement of these targets and which safeguard the competitiveness of our producers. competitiveness which must also be based on a decisive step forward by the union in research and innovation, so that our producers have effective alternatives at their disposal, starting with sustainable biotechnologies to produce more, in a way that is more respectful of the environment and of consumers.
member of the commission. – madam president, food connects us. it is one of the few things that we all deal with on a daily basis, explaining the strong interest we have in this topic. european food already sets the global standard for food that is safe and of high quality. this is the result of years of eu policymaking combined with the efforts of all the actors across the food chain. now we also need to ensure that food is sustainable for both people and the planet as well as for producers – for farmers, fishers and aquaculture producers – and businesses in the whole food chain. doing so involves tough choices, and this house knows that better than anyone. that is why i welcome parliament’s report on the farm to fork strategy. i want to thank the two rapporteurs, ms hazekamp and mr dorfmann, for their dedication and excellent cooperation on this file. we need to reframe the debate around sustainability. it is not a question of ‘if’ but ‘how’ and ‘when’. this is an opportunity we cannot miss. the planetary risk is one that we cannot afford to take. it is one that the whole world will need to face up to. we must speed up the transition to a resilient and nature—friendly food system. europe is the first mover in this area. we should work together with all concerned to reinforce our leadership. systemic change requires perseverance, commitment and courage for change. the farm to fork strategy offers the joined—up vision for this much needed transition. it works alongside other green deal strategies and sets out more than 27 initiatives on pivotal issues ranging from animal welfare to food waste. we will, of course, carry out impact assessments for all major legislative initiatives. to that end, the study from the joint research centre and other recent studies provide valuable input on the need to improve existing models. these are simply not yet able to capture changes on the demand side or losses for production because of climate change and biodiversity loss. the findings also reinforce the need to act now and follow the path set out in the farm to fork strategy to mitigate risks. honourable members, systemic change also requires ambition. ambition to set it in motion. the strategy sets ambitious eu—wide targets for pesticides, fertilisers, antimicrobials, organic farming and food waste – all based on the latest available evidence. although they are not yet the legally binding targets your report calls for, they do provide the direction of travel. and they will become legally binding if and when we legislate for them, together in this house. above all, they send out a strong signal, not just in europe, but also to our global partners, of our level of political commitment and ambition. we see this already in the common agriculture policy, with member states invited to set explicit national values contributing to the eu targets, taking into account their specific situations, to allow for assessing the contribution of the plans to our environmental and climate legislation commitments. this way, we turn the transition from a challenge into a real opportunity, and to seize it, we must look beyond individual measures, to the coherence and connections between them. let me mention just some examples of how we are bringing the change. on the supply side, the cap reform is designed to incentivise the transition. the national strategic plans will still need to be ambitious, empowering primary producers and making the sector more resilient, while reducing environmental impact. over the next few months, our focus will be on pesticides. we will make a proposal to reduce the use and risk of chemical pesticides and facilitate the marketing of biological pesticides. the targeted initiative on the new genomic techniques will explore how technology can safely contribute to our own common sustainability goals. and we are making steady progress with the new, stronger eu animal welfare legislation for the end of 2023. digitalisation is, of course, another essential driver of sustainable farming and will enable the full use of all our tools, including galileo and copernicus. our oceans and waters offer potential too, by providing food and feed with a low carbon footprint, as well as tapping into new alternative proteins such as algae. in the middle of the food chain, the eu code of conduct on responsible food business and marketing practices is a significant step forward. it has already gathered almost 100 signatories from the food sector. on consumption, the food labelling initiatives that will come at the end of next year will help with informed, healthy and sustainable food choices. preparatory work is also underway on our flagship that truly spans from farm to fork – the new framework legislation on sustainable food systems. the consultation on the inception impact assessment is open until the end of this month. this horizontal framework will enable us to deliver the transition to a sustainable food system – just as the general food law has made our food safety the best in the world. finally, research and innovation, through initiatives like horizon europe, life, blueinvest and the agricultural knowledge and innovation systems, will be key in enabling sustainable growth and we must make use of their full potential. honourable members, in a world of globalised value chains, we must look outwards. we cannot achieve this transition alone but other global actors need to subscribe to this agenda for the change to come. we are ready to lead this transition globally and i call on all of you to join your voice to ours. through our trade and partnership agreements, our development policy, international standard—setting bodies and green alliances, we will work with our partners and help wherever possible to accelerate this global transition. thank you once again for your support. today’s debate and tomorrow’s vote will help us all, as a union, to bring our vision of sustainable food systems closer.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe, our planet and humanity in particular have an appointment with history. so while not everything is perfect in this 'farm to fork' strategy, with a blind spot on the subject of seeds, for example, its ambitions are generally in the right direction. let us not be lulled by the outdated rhetoric distilled by conservative lobbyists, preachers of the food and agricultural apocalypse, whose anxiety-inducing messages have absolutely no other objective than to preserve the interests of a few at the expense of the climate, biodiversity, our health, farmers and thus at the expense of the robust ecological foundation necessary to build a dignified and decent future for our children. we therefore have a duty to vote without wavering the ambitions of this strategy and, next month, with the same determination, to demand the rewriting of the common agricultural policy so that this major, central and strategic european public policy meets the salutary ambitions of the green pact.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our food systems are responsible for one third of our greenhouse gas emissions. they endanger ecosystems, destroy farming, animal health and welfare. with what result? one third of all food produced is wasted. eight million french people need food aid to survive. nearly three billion people are hungry or malnourished. so there is an absolute urgency. it is about returning to planetary boundaries by not taking more from nature than it can replenish. the aim is to bring about the agroecological revolution and to re-establish international trade through ecological protectionism and solidarity. it is about greening and democratizing our food to feed the entire world population and to fight against the suffering of animals. this report is an important step in that direction. and i want to thank the rapporteurs, in particular my colleague anja hazekamp. but this report will be of no use if european policies are not brought into line with the objectives it contains. i therefore call for support for this report as it stands, but also for demanding a re-writing of the common agricultural policy in the decisive vote next month.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon's concert may seem to you to be a disagreement between those who think that the 'farm to table' strategy is inapplicable and that all its dangers are hidden from us, and those who believe that it is perfect and easy to implement. reality is different for me. strategy without an action plan is not a strategy. the intentions are good, but what is seriously lacking is a feasibility study that would allow a real roadmap to be drawn up. beyond a simple impact assessment, it is now necessary to put on paper the difficulties facing farmers and other stakeholders, the methods to be developed, the support to be provided so that no one is left behind. pending this work, the commission must not go back on the agreement reached in the trilogue on the link between the cap and the 'farm to fork' strategy. farmers and society deserve that we go beyond the postures to collectively build this roadmap that is essential to strengthen the agricultural and food identity of our europe.
madam president, the 'farm to fork' strategy is crucial to bring our food system into line with the objectives of the green deal and the fight against climate change. this will necessarily require the end of factory farming. livestock account for more than 14% of global greenhouse gas emissions. according to fao, 40 percent of the world's cropland is used for livestock. imports of soybeans for feeding livestock directly contribute to deforestation in the amazon, for example. industrial livestock farming leads to immense suffering in animals, whether during farming, transport or slaughter. preference should be given to other forms of livestock farming that are climate and environmentally friendly and also more rewarding for farmers. but above all, let us take action to reduce our consumption of animal products. the strategy is going in the right direction. the revision of the animal welfare rules in 2023 should at least provide an opportunity to move away from the most cruel practices, such as cage-breeding or the transport of unweaned animals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. "tell me what you eat and i will tell you who you are" - these words of brillat-savarin date back to 1825 and sum up the close link that has always existed between our food and the world in which we live. so today i am proud to be a european and to support the ambitious political objectives of the green deal, as set out in this 'farm to fork' strategy. the text we are about to vote on is balanced and shows the will of this house to be at the meeting of history. but when the strategy is put into practice in legislation, care will be needed to avoid the negative effects mentioned in the jrc study, such as food price increases or carbon leakage, and to include all sectors, such as fruit and vegetables or wine, which are inexplicably excluded. to succeed in achieving these goals, we must simultaneously move from free trade to fair trade with tools to protect our farmers' incomes, such as mirror clauses for imported products, but also innovate, because yesterday's solutions are not up to the climate challenge. access to sustainable, quality food should not be reserved for a privileged few. it is a fundamental right of every human being, including the most vulnerable.
in writing. i support the objectives of the farmer to plate strategy. it is at the heart of the green deal to make food production in europe sustainable in a climate-friendly way. however, the european commission must provide viable alternatives to millions of european farmers on how to achieve these goals in a way that their farms also reap the benefits. sustainable production does not mean losing jobs and bankrupting farms. the latest study by the european commission on the effects of the 'farmer to table' strategy gives me great concern. the new rules on food production must not lead to a reduction in our own production in europe - which meets the highest standards worldwide - in order to import a lot of food at the same time. that would be the height of cynicism. our own farmers are turning their backs and producing outside europe in less sustainable ways. i refuse to join forces with actions that lead to fake greening. in addition, the new legislative proposals should be based on sound impact assessments which take account of the cumulative effects of the different objectives. the european commission has so far failed to do this, and that is nothing short of scandalous.
member of the commission. – madam president, first let me thank the rapporteur – ms lina gálvez muñoz – and the shadow rapporteurs for delivering this important report. it is timely to have a discussion on the appropriate employment and social policies for the euro area in a future-oriented perspective as our economies are on the recovery path, but as they also face a certain number of uncertainties, like energy prices going up and the lack of certain inputs. after the covid-19 shock and its initial impact, the labour markets are currently showing more positive developments. the unemployment rate in the euro area was 7.6% in july 2021, down by one full percentage point compared with the peak of september 2020. remaining slack and mismatches in the labour market go together with increasing labour shortages. these are driven both by long-lasting difficulties to find workers with the necessary skills in some sectors and by shortages that have emerged in other sectors and occupations as a result of the pandemic. so far, the impact of the crisis has been uneven. you’ve also noted this in your report. the crisis impacted strongly on young people and other vulnerable groups, like the low-skilled and people with migrant backgrounds. also, women have been more often exposed to a double burden of work and increasing care responsibilities, in particular those with children. although exceptional policies have cushioned the impact in the short term, the covid-19 crisis risks increasing inequalities and social exclusion in the euro area following years of steady improvements. it is therefore important that the recovery is fair and inclusive. the european pillar of social rights needs to be a fundamental element of it and your report upholds this view. this was also the focus of the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) meeting of last friday. the policy debate on the future of the european semester confirmed the objective of strengthening the implementation of the social-pillar action plan to achieve the eu’s social headline targets as core elements of the future semester cycles. swift and decisive policy action and adequate funding are necessary to avoid longer-term scarring effects, with particular attention to our youth and children. already in 2020, the commission put together the youth—employment support package, which included a proposal for a reinforced youth guarantee adopted by the council in october. furthermore, the council recommendation establishing a european child guarantee calls upon the member states to guarantee for children at risk of poverty or social exclusion access to a set of key services. member states are appointing national coordinators and defining their action plan. in this context, the president, in her state of the union address, announced that 2022 will be the year of the european youth. it will be about young generations’ access to the labour market, as well as fair working conditions for them, not to forget their educational opportunities and their wellbeing, as many young have lost their income, and face mental-health issues due to the pandemic. all this has been discussed with hundreds of young people here in strasbourg at the european youth event less than two weeks ago. next to the dedicated investment in europe’s youth, measures that support job creation, effective active labour market policy and reskilling and upskilling and ease job transitions will be vital to create opportunities for all in the context of the fair, green and digital transitions. we will deploy alma (aim, learn, master, achieve), announced by the president of the commission, a new initiative helping disadvantaged young europeans who are not in any kind of employment, education or training, to help these young people to gain professional experience abroad, accompanied by social services. the ultimate objective is to integrate them into education, vocational training or quality employment. but it is also to give them the feeling that they are equal europeans, that they are considered to be at the same level as all the other young students or apprentices. the european pillar of social rights action plan, including the three eu headline targets on employment, skills and poverty reduction by 2030 welcomed by the eu leaders in porto and by the european council in june, will be instrumental in providing renewed policy impetus to make social europe a reality. to monitor the progress of our efforts, the european semester will rely on a revised social scoreboard to allow for a more comprehensive following-up on pillar principles, as well as to identify social challenges and imbalances. the joint employment report 2022 will have a stronger focus on pillar implementation. as regards eu funding, on top of the cohesion policy funding, the national recovery and resilience plans covering important and ambitious reforms and investments in the employment skills and social policy areas relate to a number of challenges identified in the country-specific recommendations and will therefore play a key role in the implementation of the pillar. we are pleased that, for the 25 plans that have already been submitted, 30% of investments and reforms are dedicated to employment skills and social policies. these, together with the actions supported by the european social fund plus (esf+), will play a key role in driving a fair and inclusive recovery. to maximise the positive impact and ownership of these policies, the commission believes in the importance of social dialogue and encourages member states to strengthen the involvement of social partners and other stakeholders, in both policy design and implementation, just as you have noted in your report. we acknowledge the importance of parliament’s role in the semester process, also with a view to its review, as well as for the scrutiny of the implementation of the recovery and resilience plans. the commission will therefore keep engaging very closely with parliament on both counts.
in porto, all those heads of state came together and solemnly declared their commitment to a more social europe. they agreed on social goals and they agreed to talk to each other at the highest level about progress. it is high time that these agreements were put into practice. if we want to get through the coronavirus crisis and also make a fair climate transition where we really leave no one behind, we need to invest in people. the national recovery plans and the green deal should therefore contribute to achieving the objectives of the european pillar of social rights. lower minimum wages? that's a short-term recipe from the last crisis, and that cure didn't work then either. so never again, not every job suits! we need a strategy for good work with control over your work schedules, with a good union and a salary you can get by on. that should be the focus of any national recovery plan. while the current dutch minister of finance shamelessly avoided taxation, other member states that saw these tax revenues being siphoned off were forced to cut their social benefits. never again! we must do everything we can to end tax evasion. but we also need to improve the social protection of platform workers and we need to close the gender pay gap. provide older people with a view to new jobs, give young people a view to affordable housing and support people with disabilities to thrive in the labour market. then we can be sure that europe is working for them too.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in this house to discuss the european semester. what an uninspiring name when the instrument must have the ambition of building a recovery that is innovative economically, socially just and ecologically responsible. contrary to those who shout the brussels diktat, the semester is and must be even more the instrument for coordinating recovery, but recovery in the service of social progress. let's prove it to him! two issues: first, to renew the semester. the current semester has shown its flexibility with the triggering of the general exception clause. it is essential that it be maintained until at least 2022. while we have an obligation to ensure sound fiscal policies for future generations, a social and green semester has become a crying necessity. how did you do that? with increased investment and climate indicators, we can ensure that transitions leave no one behind. second, turn words into deeds. as you said, commissioner, the action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights and the porto summit are commitments that are going in the right direction. but these declarations must become reality: the fight against poverty, social convergence upwards, access to housing, fair mobility, decent working conditions for all workers. it is with ambitious and concrete texts for our citizens, such as the directive on minimum wages, the reform of the coordination of our social security systems or the legislation on platform workers, that we will respond to the issues that matter to our citizens and our young people.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, asbestos is a poison that kills up to 250,000 people a year worldwide. by 2030, it could claim the lives of nearly 300 000 european citizens. this is not only a human tragedy, it is an unbearable scandal, when we have known the dangers of this material since the beginning of the 20th century. years of mobilisation by asbestos victims, associations, workers and trade unions led to its ban in 2005. but the danger and the threat persists. we therefore need a european strategy for the complete elimination of asbestos. this is what this excellent report calls for. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteurs, in particular my colleagues nikolaj villumsen and anne-sophie pelletier. as rapporteur for the envi committee, i am pleased that exposure from para-occupational, domestic or environmental sources is taken into account. the risk of ingestion of asbestos fibres in drinking water is also addressed with the proposal for a comprehensive plan for the asbestos removal of the european distribution network. that's a very good thing. this report is therefore a decisive step forward in the fight against the scourge of asbestos. i very much hope that... (the president withdrew the floor.)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. madam president, everyone knows about asbestos. it's everywhere, this indestructible material that has killed thousands of men and women who have been professionally exposed to it. and yet, at the european level, nothing has really changed since 2013. we have looked at the asbestos scandal through the prism of worker protection and this has allowed us to highlight also cases of mesothelioma directly related to asbestos, in people who have not been exposed to it professionally. and that is why, with this report, we have created something of paramount importance for consumer protection: the introduction of asbestos certificates in buildings, renewable every five years, following a so-called surface detection. these certificates, which will be made available to buyers and lessees alike, will reduce the risk of passive exposure. information, alert, anticipation and removal of danger are the pillars of an approach based on the precautionary principle, which is also accompanied by monitoring of the evolution of the building. i would like to thank nikolaj villumsen, manuel bompard and my colleagues on the imco committee. we have firm and concrete proposals. alea jacta is on the way. now it is up to the commission to change the outcome of a tragedy called asbestos.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, after the scandal of bone cancer in radium workers and then sinus cancer in woodworkers, the first suspicions about asbestos were raised in the early 1900s. it took a century for a european directive to finally ban it. but 15 years later, too many buildings are still asbestos-filled. as a cancer specialist, i've seen the ravages of asbestos. as rapporteur for the european plan to combat cancer, i denounce this primary cause of occupational cancers, a preventable cause. as rapporteur for the occupational health strategy, i will support your ambitious vision of zero deaths, commissioner. the green deal renovation wave offers an unprecedented opportunity to accelerate asbestos removal, but also poses a risk to exposed workers. we can't say we didn't know. let us tackle asbestos with a comprehensive strategy of social convergence from above: training of workers, the precautionary principle on construction sites, diagnosis before work, epidemiological monitoring of mesothelioma, waste management, global prohibition, recognition and compensation of victims. we know we can count on you, commissioner, to translate these recommendations into legislation for a more protective europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, paul dupeyroux died a year after doctors diagnosed him with asbestos cancer, mesothelioma. paul grew up in aulnay-sous-bois, near paris. near his house was an asbestos-crushing plant. a tall chimney spewed white dust, white dust that workers and residents had been breathing for decades. for nineteen years, paul breathed in asbestos dust without knowing it was poisoning him. asbestos-related diseases are insidious. they take years to develop after inhaling asbestos particles. more than 90,000 people die of asbestos in the european union every year. too often, victims are left alone and unaware that asbestos is the cause of their illness. i therefore ask you to support the report by my colleague, mr nikolaj villumsen, and the members of my delegation from france insoumise. as this report shows, we need to facilitate the recognition and compensation of asbestos victims. and, above all, we must completely remove asbestos from all existing structures so that no more pauls can die from breathing.
member of the commission. – mr president, allow me to thank the rapporteur, ms monica semedo, and the committee on culture and education for this important report on the situation of artists and cultural workers in the post-covid-19 cultural recovery in the european union. like many other sectors, the cultural and creative sectors have been hit very hard by the covid-19 crisis and we need to join forces for the cultural recovery. as foreseen in the council work plan for culture 2019-2022, the commission delivered an eu study on the topic of working conditions of artists. this was followed by a voices of culture dialogue, with civil society, earlier this year. the results of those discussions were presented in june 2021. i fully agree that urgent action is needed to improve the working conditions of artists and cultural and creative professionals, and in these crisis times more than ever. that is why, on 21 september 2021, a working group made up of member state experts from ministries of culture, employment and social affairs took up its work on the status and working conditions of artists and cultural and creative professionals. furthermore, sectoral social dialogue and the specific role of social partners in relation to the working conditions of artists and creative professionals are also crucial. it is important to be able to link the different actions together. while there is a strong will to progress on this topic, it needs to be kept in mind that social protection is not a union but a member state competence. regarding the proposed european framework for working conditions in the cultural and creative sectors and industries, further discussions with competent actors and social partners are needed. the commission fully agrees with the european parliament’s call to support artists’ mobility and to promote significantly their integration into the labour market. since 2019, we have launched a mobility scheme, under i-portunus, for artists and cultural professionals. to date, more than 800 artists or cultural professionals have been funded to go abroad and collaborate with their peers to co-produce, co-create, find new audiences, learn from masters and internationalise their careers. all grantees were extremely appreciative of the support, especially after the effect covid-19 had on their work. impressively, almost 50% said that they received some type of employment offer as a result of this small mobility support. as of next year, i-portunus will be a regular part of the creative europe programme and enjoy an increase in budget. cultural and creative exchanges are also facilitated via the erasmus+ programme, as well as the ep pilot project on makers’ mobility carried out by the commission. europe’s cultural and creative sectors have been among the most affected during the pandemic and i had, by the way, the opportunity to talk to representatives of the european cultural sectors during the covid-19 crisis on the real major difficulties many, and especially young artists, went through. the cultural and creative sectors have played a crucial role at the same time in the unprecedented circumstances arising from the covid-19 pandemic. the cultural and creative sectors now need to play a central role in europe’s recovery. that is why, last june, the commission issued a communication on eu guidelines for the safe resumption of activities in the cultural and creative sectors with the aim to facilitate a common approach across the eu and to accompany the cultural sectors in their reopening efforts. the creative europe programme will provide support to creators so they can do more for more people. the programme has an increased budget of 2.5 billion for the period 2021-2027. that is 63% more than the previous financial framework. the budget for the mobility action will be five times higher than in the pilot phase, starting with 21 million for the next three years and we continue to fund individuals, as well as hosting organisations such as the new european bauhaus. this money will be instrumental. for example, many of the projects creative europe supports help stakeholders and creatives build capacity, help connect practitioners to each other and develop new practices. from support for translation of european works to specific help to the music sector, creative europe keeps aiding culture to flourish. of course, addressing the revenue loss during covid-19 is a multi-level challenge that requires a multi-level solution. as part of the eu’s comprehensive strategy to protect citizens and help address the negative employment and social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic, the european instrument for temporary support to mitigate unemployment risk in an emergency (sure) provided 100 billion to member states, notably through short-time work, and we recommended not to exclude creative professionals and artists from this support. in previous months, the commission has taken a number of measures to support member states’ actions to address the consequences of the crisis on culture, including additional funds under the creative europe and erasmus+ programmes, as well as postponing deadlines for submissions of projects and facilitating the sector’s dialogue and exchange of good practices. additional financial resources have been available through the coronavirus response investment initiative and the recovery and resilience facility, which can also be used for the cultural and creative sectors. react-eu and the future cohesion policy, notably through the support by the european social fund+, also opened up new opportunities to leverage the potential of these sectors to contribute to the sustainability and resilience of european societies. we have put all our efforts and used all means at our disposal to make sure that cultural sectors are high on the policy agenda in order to support their recovery and to allow them to benefit from the opportunities offered in the new generations of eu programmes for 2021-2027. the new creative europe and the erasmus+ programmes, the reinforced horizon europe with a dedicated cluster on culture, creativity and inclusive society, and the upcoming knowledge and innovation community (kic) for the cultural and creative sectors, as well as for cultural heritage under the european institute for technology, are key examples. on a regulatory level, let us also recall that new copyright rules ensure that creators are fairly remunerated, including in the digital space. the directive on copyright in the digital single market not only addresses the imbalance between the creative sector and online platforms through eu rules on the use of protected content by online content-sharing service providers, but also aims to increase transparency and balance in the contractual relations between individual creators and their counterparties, exploiting their creations. let me also highlight another important step. we will soon publish an online guide on eu funding for culture covering all existing eu funds that member states and the sector can use.
for the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cultural and creative sectors have been severely affected and constrained by the covid-19 pandemic. it appears that the recovery of cultural activities is not as rapid as in other sectors. while freight traffic has increased by 105 percent compared to the pre-pandemic period, visits to monuments and cultural events have not shown any increase. it's more of a slow return. it is all the more important that the cultural and creative sectors receive support. the commission notes that the restructuring plan for the bank of greece was submitted by the bank of greece in the form of a letter dated 15 june 2013. i thank the commissioner for promising the commission's support here, for listing all the programmes where the cultural sector is remembered, be it horizon europe, creative europe, investeu, digital europe, erasmus+. indeed, everywhere, these programs can support artists and workers. and we'll be watching to see how effectively these funds are used. the cultural sector requires not only financial support but also the creation of incentive conditions. i am not in favour of harmonising labour relations, but i am sure that the exchange of good practice and the guarantee of fair conditions for artistic and creative activity in the internal market will help. the european parliament therefore calls for the implementation of the copyright directive in the digital single market. the online space has become, for many artists, during the pandemic, the main space for both performance and income. this requires the promotion of vocational training in the digital environment and the protection of authors' works and adequate remuneration. that's what proper implementation would help with. i would ask the commission to discuss this implementation with the member states. the freedom of expression of artists and creators is also an important aspect, as my colleague monica semed has said, and i would like to thank her for this report. i would like to remind you that the european parliament will always support the freedom of artists. it is our commitment in this european parliament.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, a year ago we raised the alarm for culture in europe and asked the member states to devote 2% of their recovery plans to this sector, which has been shaken by the pandemic. i'm proud to say we were heard. more than €9 billion of the european union's next generation eu recovery tool is already being used and much of the support is available through support for smes and tourism, among others. however, as the rapporteur points out in this excellent report, there is still a lot of work to be done by cultural professionals. the challenge is to strengthen the position of authors, artists and technicians, who are still vulnerable in this sector, which is too fragmented, to secure their income and to move towards a european status for artists. the challenge is also to ensure that culture is a lasting part of the european economy in the digital age and to win the battle for content. we have the potential and the talent. in this context, i welcome national initiatives such as the italian recovery plan signed in cinecittà's film studios or the france 2030 plan, which are designed to boost investment in cultural and creative content. but more than economic, the challenge is that of our imagination and our shared narrative. european culture has something that other cultures do not have: a sensitivity and diversity that is unlike any other. it is essential for our democracy, for our influence in the world, for the enchantment of our lives - as we have seen during the lockdown - and for our cohesion and european identity.
mr president, the polish people want to remain in the european union and to comply with the european project without any ambiguity. they demonstrate this strongly when they respond positively to a survey with 90%, when they demonstrate in numbers and when they have been taking risks for years to defend european values and laws. judges are now being punished by their hierarchy, isolated, demoted in the exercise of their functions for simply wanting to respect the primacy of european law when it is legitimate. but you, the council and the commission, continue to have a dialogue only with the government. what more do you expect from these citizens to take the legal and efficient measures that fall within your competence? in hungary, in a survey, citizens said that they understood the introduction of conditionality in european payments. but will you, commission and council, still unblock the recovery plans at the risk of the polish and hungarian governments seizing even more of the european money and powers at their disposal? will there be hearings of these governments during the slovenian presidency, in the framework of the procedure provided for in article 7 of the treaty on european union? will there be any recommendations under the french presidency? concrete action whenever there is a breach? or will you let these citizens always act alone?
mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 june the karlsruhe court reiterated its 2009 judgment, recalling that 'there is no such thing as a european people'. i quote: 'as long as no unified european people can express a majority will through effective political channels, the peoples of the union constituted in the member states remain the exclusive holders of public authority. other after this judgment, which calls into question the dominant position, it is clear that there is no european law. no one is suggesting that the german recovery plan should be suspended. so why are we discussing sanctions against poland this morning? poland, through the voice of its constitutional court, dares to defend its sovereignty against a new totalitarianism which hides its name and which would like to establish its dictates as a principle of law, on the basis of an ever closer union. on the pretext of refusing to comply with the injunctions of the court of justice of the european union, which unlawfully demanded the withdrawal of a controversial reform - much more in brussels and strasbourg than in warsaw - from its judicial system, parliament launched a political trial, a stalinist trial. the constitutional court in warsaw on 7 october last ruled that these requests were illegitimate, because the question of the organisation of the judicial system was never referred by the member states of the european union. that's what it is, respect for the rule of law. in response, the commission goes so far as to say that this is a first step towards a polexit. the manoeuvre is too big to talk about a judicial coup. the union's institutions are trying to put pressure on poland for ideological reasons. they reject the choice of the polish people in matters of immigration, as in matters of social policy, and try to disguise a political conflict as an institutional issue. i think that what you are asking for is a change of regime. but if you don't mind, the history of poland reminds us that this free and proud people have fought and will continue to fight. in this way he will be accompanied by all those who wish for a europe of nations and freedoms.
mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, i have listened to you very carefully and your explanations - if they can be considered explanations - are clearly not up to the task. there was a time, not so long ago, in your country, when a central authority gave the judges a little too much leeway. a time when judges were appointed by party card. a time when judgments served to consolidate power in place. it was the soviet union. so, mr. prime minister, let's face the facts. the judges sitting in your constitutional court today have nothing to envy to those of that time. yet in 2004, the contract was clear: your predecessors had done this work of building a rule of law. this was the condition for us to enjoy the benefits of our integration. madam president, we say stop, stop the impunity. for years now, the pis government, among others, has been challenging our basic democratic principles. years of hesitant dialogue have brought us to where we are. if europe is no longer able to uphold its democratic foundations through strong and concrete actions, it will have failed in its primary mission: to protect our rights. it is your responsibility, madam president, as you yourself have said.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, there is a pandemic today that is causing terrible damage, but which the european commission blatantly ignores in its 2022 work programme: it is poverty. and the explosion in energy prices for which you are directly responsible is the straw that can tip millions of people into poverty. so, as usual, you waited first, you said, "it's not my fault". then you were forced to suspend your absurd rules that prevent public price controls. but you also warned that you would not change the problem: energy would remain a commodity like any other, that's all. you're not on your trial run. it reminds me of the early days of covid, when we had to help people cope. the commission first told the states: 'do it yourself!' and then, it was forced to concede that it could derogate a little from its cherished rules of all austerity and all competition. but again, only temporarily, of course. it is the same story again and again with the climate change and the terrible floods that have ravaged whole regions of europe. you shed a few crocodile tears and swore, hand on heart, that ecology was the challenge of the century. but you refused to change a single comma in your climate bill, which will not allow us to meet the paris accords. the pattern is now known: you create unjust rules, you exonerate yourself from responsibility when they create chaos, you put them temporarily in parentheses when it is already too late, and then you reinforce them instead of getting rid of them permanently. i remember a year ago, we said, "never again", never again this austerity that destroyed our hospitals, never again this free trade that prevented us from producing masks, never again these miserable wages for the first ladies of the drudgery. a year later, all those promises were forgotten. because your work schedule is the same as the previous ones. hurry up! let's reinstate the 3% deficit rule. hurry up! let us return to the ban on state aid. hurry up! let us sign more and more free trade agreements. hurry up! let's expand the carbon market even further. you'd better come to your senses and learn from your failures. let's get rid of your obsessions with the past once and for all. let's turn the page of the neoliberal gospel to answer the concerns of everyday life: how to pay your bills? breathing in fresh air? providing a future for your children? this is what millions of europeans expect for the year 2022. so, finally, we're back together with a little hope.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, €1 billion, or at least close to €1 billion for the european fisheries, aquaculture and maritime sectors in 2022 is ambitious, but it is necessary. a fisheries and aquaculture sector hit hard by a health crisis of unprecedented scale, which has deeply destabilised the seafood market. a sector that has to face the serious consequences of brexit on a daily basis, which prevents it from moving forward with confidence. and a sector which, despite all the uncertainties, has to face the immense challenges of the green deal for europe, the necessary decarbonisation and the protection of biodiversity. and finally, a sector that will have to meet the increasing expectations of european consumers regarding traceability, quality and labelling, for example. this 2022 budget marks the strengthening of the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund. an feampa that has been designed to meet all these challenges. so fisheries and aquaculture still have many challenges to face. ambitious and necessary, the billion won't be too much.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear minister, honourable members, thank you again for this lively, interesting, and may i say, constructive debate. be assured that the commission will do its best to support and to manage again a good compromise in order to have a good budget. however, i would like to raise one aspect. i have heard a lot about what we should do, how ambitious we should be again. i think this is very understandable, if you look at the different – so to say – interests, etc., but at the end of the day, i think we are all challenged on an almost daily basis to look into our institutions, in all our institutions, to see which kind of activities, initiatives, structures may currently and in the predictable future not be so important. and maybe others, because things are changing, challenges are changing, priorities are changing, and what we have to do is prioritise again and again what is important in order really to deliver, and not to put money for each and everything, but really to focus our activities, our investments. this concerns money but also human resources and in that respect i think we should really see, analyse and take decisions as to how we can reallocate each and everywhere our resources again and again in order to achieve our common goals. when it comes to the 2022 budget, again, be reassured that my team and i are at your disposal and ready to facilitate the work, with the rapporteurs and the presidency, during this conciliation procedure. i am again hopeful – may i say optimistic – that we can get an agreement within the time-frame, in a first hit, and not need the additional second kind of conciliation period. i think it is in the interest of all citizens to get the necessary agreements as fast as possible and therefore the guarantee, the knowledge of what the budget is for next year and on what the people can rely, can take their decisions, can make their investments and have, so to say, a strong indication of what is available next year for which purposes, for which activities. so thank you again for the debate today, and let’s see if we can make already next week the necessary progress.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you very much again for this debate. i think it has been very valuable to hear from the first row the different opinions from different points of view of all different countries and groups and the different views. what i have tried to hear and pick up from this debate is the arguments and the justifications of the colleagues to really understand what the reasons are for the proposed amendments and what the rationale behind them is. we still have limited resources, we have the limited framework of financing. so within these restraints we have to have clear and focused priorities. although in the first view of the top down approach, we have the same priorities, but the way in the approach, how to do this, to come to that is a little bit different. so within this process, which is ahead of us in the next few weeks, we have to come closer in order to find a way to reach the same goals and priorities. so i am sure that i will inform our colleagues in the council about this debate today, and we will together assess all the amendments, all the proposals, and we are looking forward to a successful conciliation process with the help of all of you and especially also the commission on that side.
in writing. when we discussed the budget yesterday in our group, our budget speaker was very surprised. never before have all the members of the group been present at the annual budget debate. the annual budget debate has never been too passionate, as the budgetary frameworks largely agree on the seven-year financial perspective and the re-financing negotiations. the pattern of negotiations also repeats itself year after year the european commission and the european parliament typically want to spend a little more and the member states prefer to keep the budget smaller in the council. and i must say that yesterday, too, people came not to discuss the budget with unprecedented enthusiasm, but to elect a new leader for the group. the eu budget for 2022 delivers on the objectives of the 2021-2027 financial framework agreed a year ago. for the second year running, the budget is being supplemented by temporary recapitalisation, bringing the planned expenditure to over eur 300 billion, almost double the normal level. the budget focuses on the expected turnaround and digital developments, but also on strengthening european crisis resilience and security and border management issues. in the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, we stressed the importance of improving the free movement of goods and services, further digitising the public sector and the eu customs union, reducing administrative burdens and developing the digital single market. it is more important than whether some expenditure is made earlier or later in the year that the money is available to users from the beginning of the year. to do this, the budget for the next year must be adopted quickly.
in writing. if the eu is to be a geopolitical player in the world, we must ensure that we are successful in our neighbourhood. more support should be provided to the western balkan countries and to the countries of the eastern and southern neighbourhood to finance political and socio-economic reforms there, as well as recovery from the covid-19 crisis. in the same way, there is a need to support areas such as media freedom, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and human rights and fundamental freedoms in the region. support for human rights and democracy activists in belarus must continue. in the larger picture, we expect increased spending on defence initiatives, which would also contribute to the development of a more geostrategic eu. in particular, the aim is to be able to defend our interests and values and to take on more security and defence commitments in our neighbourhood - in cooperation with the us and nato. as the need to protect the eu against cyber attacks and disinformation has become more pressing in recent years, it is necessary to ensure adequate funding, as well as the mandate of the european external action service units and projects addressing these issues. and let's not forget the cyber world.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, tunisia is our close neighbour and partner. c’est un pays voisin lié à l’europe par une multitude de liens forgés au long de l’histoire. mais il se trouve dans une situation préoccupante. the extension of unprecedented, exceptional measures confirming, among others, the suspension of the parliament – not the cancelling of the parliament, which would be clearly unconstitutional, but suspension – and a deep socioeconomic crisis, which the covid pandemic has worsened, are increasingly raising apprehension among us and among all main international partners. the european union has built a strong partnership with tunisia since 2011, since the arab spring that started there in tunisia. we have strongly supported its democratic consolidation, both politically and financially. democratic transition often proves long and extremely challenging. and this is the case in tunisia. sometimes these transitions can even risk being disappointing when the populations do not immediately see the dividends. and this has been the case in tunisia. but the acquis must always be preserved, and this has to be the case in tunisia. immediately after president saied suspended parliament – suspended, not cancelled, but a permanent and unending suspension can be something similar to cancelling – the european union expressed its position through the declaration that i issued on behalf of all member states on 27 july. i then reached out to president saied when i visited tunisia and had a long and frank discussion with him in early september. so, as you can see, i’ve been following very closely the events in this country, and we spoke again last friday over the phone. i was in the us, but nevertheless i wanted to have a phone call with him to talk about the consequences of the decree and the formation of a government. as you may have seen, they went public on the key messages that i conveyed and the president did the same. on both occasions, president saied and i had a very frank exchange and i clearly expressed the apprehensions in europe over the latest developments, in particular about this presidential decree of 22 september that extended the exceptional measures granting to the president additional powers. president saied is a professor of constitutional law so he knows better than i the theory of the question. and when i talk with him, he gives a lot of explanations from constitutional theory about the well-founded nature of his decisions. i reiterated that the preservation of the democratic acquis, parliamentarian democracy and institutional stability, respect for the separation of powers, the rule of law and independent judiciary, as well as respect of fundamental rights and freedoms, are key for long—term stability and prosperity in tunisia. the president has been very much concerned by with the functioning of the tunisian democracy; he has also referred to me to some events that happened inside the tunisian parliament, today closed, and the behaviour of the political parties that, according with his ideas, were not working on behalf of the wellbeing of the tunisian people. for a certain time, there has not been a prime minister and the recent appointment of a new one, ms najla bouden romdhane, is certainly a positive step, but the power of this government is a different one from the first, the one who was dismissed by the president. the establishment of a functioning government is certainly crucial to immediately start tackling the many challenges that tunisia faces. and we have to salute this event. however, it’s crucial for the country’s future, and its domestic and international credibility, that the president and the tunisian authorities at all levels fully restore the constitutional and institutional order, including parliamentarian activity – the parliament cannot stay closed indefinitely – and that they set a clear timetable for its reopening. i have to mention that the parliamentarians have been sent home, lost their immunity, lost their salary and lost their activity. so the parliament has to restore its activities. during my call with president saied last friday, i took note in particular of the president’s reassurance – he reassured me in very clear words that he intends to limit what he called a period of exceptional measures taken in accordance with an article of the constitution that allows him to act when the country is facing a dangerous situation. and at the same time to engage in a national dialogue to put the basis for a new restarting of the tunisian democracy. what matters now is to put this into practice with a clear timetable. in such a worrisome situation, and in the name of the strategic and solid partnership that we have with tunisia and the important amount of financial resources that we are allocating to the development of this country, it’s fundamental for both sides that we maintain a serious and open dialogue in full respect of tunisian sovereignty, for sure, needless to say, but also with the wish and aspirations of its citizens, we desire to keep supporting the tunisian people with the ultimate purpose of restoring the tunisian authorities on the way towards constitutional normality in the weeks to come. you can rest assured that i will remain vigilant according to my duty. and i do hope that together, all european union institutions, we will find the best way to help tunisia to preserve its democracy, stability and future prosperity. this is our shared objective and i am sure that the debate today will help to look to this purpose and to follow this path. i thank you in advance.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the difficult economic, social and pandemic situation in tunisia has been known to all concerned only since this spring. there are also many countries which are going through a complex process of transformation, where there is also the problem of corruption, for example. i would not recommend to any of the presidents there to send a democratically elected parliament home. president saied did not dissolve parliament with the aim of holding new elections, but invoked article 80 of the constitution in the event of an imminent threat to the country, its security or independence, which would affect the normal functioning of the public administration. there is no question of a dispute between parliament and the president. after that, at the latest, he left the framework of the constitution. he should have consulted the prime minister and the president of parliament first and taken into account that, in accordance with rule 80 (2), parliament is considered to be in session in such a situation. instead, he suspended it indefinitely and, with decree 117, declared his decrees to be above the constitution. i believe that this is nothing more or less than a constitutional breach from above, and it cannot be cured by applause from the street. the country needs a national dialogue, perhaps coordinated by the quartet, which has been helpful in the past and won the nobel peace prize, rather than isolated decisions outside the constitution. and as a member of parliament i say: that of course includes the democratically elected parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr high representative, i fully agree with you when you say that tunisia is an important country for the european union important geographically, historically, culturally, politically, and security-wise. in 2011, the peaceful revolution led by thousands of tunisian citizens brought an end to a regime, a dictatorship, that of mr. ben ali. at that time, europe stood by tunisia. perhaps not enough: perhaps we have not understood enough the significance of this pro-democracy movement in tunisia. today, tunisia is facing an economic crisis caused by the insecurity of its neighbour libya. a health crisis also occurred, with covid having particularly hit tunisia, with a dramatic effect on tourism, a vital economic sector in tunisia. but also to a political-institutional crisis in a young democracy. the european union must therefore redouble its efforts in relation to tunisia and stand by the tunisian people above all. in a proper democracy, no one man can claim to represent the executive, the legislature or the judiciary. in a democracy worthy of the name, a decree cannot change the constitution. in a democracy worthy of the name, we cannot arbitrarily ban travel, we cannot try civilians in military courts. all this is happening in tunisia today and we therefore ask that the state of emergency be ended, that the democratic process be resumed, but also that we evaluate our action with regard to tunisia, so as to be more effective.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr high representative. what do we want to say to the tunisian women and men this afternoon? first of all, we are worried. the concentration of power since 25 july in the hands of president kaïs saïed alone is alarming, alarming in substance and form. the transfer of all powers is not a necessary step to save democracy. on the contrary, the achievements of the 2014 constitution must be preserved and the judicial and legislative powers of the parliament restored as soon as possible. the government must resume the national dialogue with tunisian civil society: trade unions, employers, the tunisian league of human rights and the national order of lawyers in particular, which was awarded the nobel peace prize in 2015. it is with this civil society that it must lead the next constitutional and legislative reforms. but, and we want to remind you this afternoon, tunisia is a friendly country, historically, culturally, intellectually. this country has long ago chosen the values of freedom and tolerance which we in europe are so attached to. the renew group is at your side, so to continue the cooperation, extend the financial support. all these millions of euros were released in particular to fight the pandemic that is affecting the population very hard. unless we break with this culture of dialogue that the nobel prize has come to reward, it is now up to president saïd to capitalize on his popularity to unite rather than divide. in conclusion, madam president, it must take the steps and reforms that tunisians expect. we are also waiting for the same gestures and reforms on this side of the mediterranean.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr high representative, since july we have been closely following the political developments: the introduction of a state of emergency without an end date, the concentration of all powers in the hands of the president, the suspension of parliament and the 2014 constitution, house arrest, bans on leaving the country, military courts to try civilians, alerts from ngos. we've been worried since july. since july, we have been waiting for reassuring signals that have not come. this is why, in our resolution: we recall the long way tunisia has come since 2011, the only country in the maghreb to have succeeded in taking the path to democracy; we express our concern; and we're asking the president for a clear road map. i understand the distrust of the tunisian people in the face of a parliament that has been blocked and has not been able to cope with the economic, social and health crisis. but i can't believe he's dying to go back. i understand that some tunisians have confidence in their president, but that confidence cannot in the long term replace the proper functioning of independent institutions. as jean monnet said: "nothing is possible without men - and i add women - but nothing is lasting without institutions". i am proud to be the rapporteur for my group on tunisia. this brave country, which made the bet on democracy and which won the nobel peace prize in 2015 through the quartet. we will always support you in this fight, because the stakes are high and the path we have travelled is precious. long live the tunisian democracy! (the speaker continues in a language outside the european union.)
on behalf of the id group. madam president, tunisia is inextricably linked to europe by its history, culture and geography. the recent period in the country has been particularly deplorable for our relations. the coming to power of a party linked to islamism has precipitated migration, security and cultural tensions. as everywhere the followers of the muslim brotherhood have ruled, the result has been catastrophic. poverty, corruption and corruption have been the ennahda's legacy and political implosion has been a long time coming. as everywhere, the arab spring has only given birth to a socio-political catastrophe. all observers were particularly worried. the most serious people therefore welcomed the election and the decisions of mr kaïs saïed with immense relief. the kaïs saïed are the opposite of the islamists, those who sell shoes to turkey and are unable to read the koran. he speaks literary arabic, he won the last presidential election with more than 70% of the vote and i admit to developing sovereigntist arguments. i notice that his new government has a lot of women, including the prime minister. the european parliament should welcome this. instead, some people seem to prefer to relay the muslim brotherhood's propaganda. they want the rule of law to benefit the islamist parties. they continue to support the solutions that have plunged tunisia into economic decline and accelerated migration flows. a strong and prosperous tunisia would be an asset for the member states of the union. let us give a chance to this new government which has all the qualities to put tunisia back on track by returning to the path of effective democracy at the service of its people.
madam president, today is the autumn of democracy in tunisia, and yet the spring of the jasmine revolution is far away. yet, only ten years passed. today, the tunisian parliament is suspended. president kaïs saïed is deciding more and more things on his own. more and more alone. so, of course, we rise, we lament, we regret. we condemn what we see and don't understand. but where were we? where was the european union when the tunisian parliament was turning to the firecracker, fighting in the chamber included? what were we saying when, just a year ago, an islamist tunisian mp justified the beheading of a french professor, samuel paty, on the grounds that he had blasphemed? we have given many lessons to the tunisian people, so brave and so courageous, to tunisian civil society, so active and so determined, to young tunisians who vote with their feet, trying to cross the mediterranean at the risk of their lives, but we have not yet found a way to give them what they lack most: hope.
mr president, let me begin by thanking colleagues across this house on working together to produce a report that sends a strong message to support our taiwanese friends. taiwan is a democratic ally facing unprecedented pressure from the totalitarian chinese communist party. as a result, taiwan’s democracy, economic achievements and regional and perhaps global security are all at stake. we must stand with taiwan, but we must also develop and strengthen our relations. first, in a world where totalitarian regimes are becoming increasingly assertive, defending democracy is no longer enough. we must take democracy on the offensive. where there remains instinctive desire for freedom and self-determination is suffering. and secondly we must strengthen our economic cooperation. today, taiwan is an important investor in many of our countries, and there is huge potential for cooperation in areas such as manufacturing of semiconductors or the development of 5g networks. it is high time to start negotiating an eu—taiwan bilateral investment agreement.
mr president, commissioner, strengthened by the pandemic crisis, our common objective is to build our strategic autonomy. in practical terms, this means that we must decide for ourselves with whom we want to talk and how we want to deepen our economic relations with our partners. for six years, our parliament's incessant calls for negotiations on a bilateral investment agreement with taiwan have remained unanswered. taiwan shares our values: defending democracy, fighting climate change, high social standards, protecting basic freedoms. at a time of tension in the indo-pacific region, strengthening our relations with like-minded partners no longer seems an option. and let's not be naive about it. we know all about the pressure from china, but it is not for china to dictate our own trade agenda. let us be strong and determined in building alliances based on common values and objectives. but it will also require us to strengthen our commercial arsenal to meet any possible retaliation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes even a dictator can be right. when mr. xi jinping says that taiwan is china, yes, he is right. taiwan is china, and taiwan and communist china are destined to come together one day, as west germany and east germany did, as the two koreas, let us hope, let us be certain, will one day. but under what conditions? there is the optimal condition: mainland china becomes a great democracy. what's the big deal? we are sure that the taiwanese will be happy to join this great democracy and to bring their experience to it. second hypothesis: one country, two regimes. no, i'm not going. no, thank you. we've seen this before in hong kong. no, that's not the case. that is not what we will support. i certainly don't. the third hypothesis is that there will be military pressure, perhaps even a military invasion. so, let the chinese mainland know, we will not go to war, but it will end immediately, in an hour, all our economic relations with china and china will have to bear the consequences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, commissioner, but instead of discussing the people concerned, we should be talking to the companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. there is only one message there: insecurity. they want to re-equip the production, but for what and when? instead of coal dust on natural gas, with a later option of hydrogen, on electric furnaces, into new pipelines? these companies may not have the export shares that meet the new european standards, but they want to be able to finance the energy transition. of course, they need government support for decarbonization and for future use of hydrogen, co2 differential contracts. of course, these plants need low energy taxes and fewer levies. that is why we cannot reduce the number of eligible sectors by 75%. that is not progress, that is a barrier to competition. i recommend that the commission should turn around. instead of reducing the carbon leakage list, we need to expand that list. otherwise the european energy transition will take place without european industry.
(without a microphone) to stop the climate crisis, the paris agreement. climate change has gone from being a minor issue to becoming a central part of eu policy through the green gift. recently, we have had a climate law that greatly increases the eu's climate ambitions. at the same time, many policy areas have not kept pace with this development. state aid is one such important area where the rules have not been updated to reflect the climate. the rules for the authorisation of state aid for environmental and climate objectives have not been updated in seven years. the european commission is therefore welcome to take a step in this direction. it would also be welcome if we here in the european parliament could now agree on a common view on the direction in which we should go to improve the climate benefits here. because i don't think anyone has noticed that we have skyrocketing energy prices right now. only one-fifth of that is because we have stricter climate policies that put a price on dirty fuels. the rest is actually linked to our dependence on fossil fuels, such as natural gas. when the price of russian gas rises, it affects the cost of heating our homes all the way up to sweden. it is now time to invest in the future, in clean and inexpensive green technology. state aid is an important tool that can support this development, but it can also slow it down if the investments are fossil-based. i hope that parliament can land in a strong position on climate, and stand up for renewables against fossil fuels.
mr president, dear vice-president vestager, ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of the 2030 climate targets and carbon neutrality by 2050 must not remain wishful thinking, but must become a reality. to do that, we'll need all the tools we have. competition policy is an integral part of this, as we have seen during the pandemic management. similarly, the revision of the state aid guidelines on environment and energy will contribute to the post-covid green recovery of our economy and society. it is essential to end fossil fuel subsidies and to support all solutions compatible with carbon neutrality. the areas of the green transition must extend to our daily lives. we must support all new forms of mobility - for example, car-sharing and all new uses of the bicycle. the action of european public authorities is crucial for our citizens and for our businesses. it requires a very broad mobilisation and requires flexibility, adaptability and responsiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs vestager, we strongly support the european commission's initiative to review state aid in order to bring it into line with the green deal. it is true that such state aid must make possible the necessary investments, both by private enterprises and with the support of the public authorities. and you are right to point out that if we are to have more flexibility, we also need safeguards. so, to sort out what should be subject to specific state aid in relation to the green deal, i invite you to use the principle of not harming taxonomy, which allows you to say 'this project must be part of the green deal, it must be accompanied by more flexibility' or, on the contrary, 'this project is dangerous, so it should not be subject to any particular state aid, or even state aid at all'. i think that by using this principle, you have the safety net you need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'd like to take this minute to make an appeal. we all agree that climate change can only be achieved if we invest massively, invest in a transformation of economic structures. the state - the eu - must help, raise massive money and invest in this transformation. and between money and investment there are precisely these rules, these rules on aid, these state rules which we are defining here today or which we will have to define in the future. so they're extremely important. i would like to see this as an appeal to make sure that this aid is designed in such a way that it does not benefit only large companies or those which are already very far along in their process of transformation, but small and mediumsized enterprises which want to do just that, but which must be given the opportunity to do so. for that, we need to write the rules so that small and medium-sized businesses can benefit from them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a year. that's the exemption sweden has got to support renewable fuels. one year at a time, and that counts as an exception. this is what has enabled us to go from five percent ethanol in our gas pumps to 10 percent. but it's still only one exception. we now have the chance to change and do the right thing when it comes to eu state aid rules. we must be clear: renewables are better than fossils, and fossils should not be given state aid under any circumstances. we can't punish renewables either. today we have high prices for petrol and diesel, but it will be impossible to change unless renewable alternatives are competitive. i don't know how many of you have worked in companies or are entrepreneurs, but a year is way too short a time to make any kind of investment. we need to make renewables the rule, not the exception.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i have listened to you very carefully. we are telling the story of a europe that promises to break its dependence on fossil fuels, while still planning to accept state aid for gas, which is a fossil fuel. we are also fooling ourselves when we promise a europe that would accelerate the development of renewable energies, while we still provide for state aid to nuclear energy which, as we know, absorbs the funds needed for green energies. we are making up a story to sleep on when we give the green light to recovery plans which, however, remain at the service of companies and sectors whose deployment is incompatible with planetary limits and the climate, and this without any real demand for counterparts, as in france. then there are the citizens. there are citizens who are fascinated by a europe that demands international obligations for environmental democracy, while still denying them the right to be properly informed and able to take legal action on state aid and its use. so let's stop telling stories to future generations. let us immediately, together with the citizens, redirect all state aid towards protecting the planet and fundamental rights.
mr president, commissioner, the green transition requires very large investments from industry and society. the commission has estimated that achieving the enhanced 2030 climate targets alone will require investments of up to eur 350 billion each year. this means that industry, businesses and especially smes need support for this big transition. i welcome the commission's opening up of these areas, which proposes that aid be extended to clean transport, among other things. it is also particularly necessary now to target support for improving the environmental performance of buildings and for improving the efficiency of district heating. this is demonstrated by the major crisis in energy prices that is currently being experienced in many countries. rather than offering assistance to individual gas burners, it is much more efficient to significantly upgrade both energy efficiency and entire heating systems. the companies involved in this are clearly in need of support for this and i think it is particularly good in this context that in many places there are proposals for aid bonuses for smes.
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.15 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
we now continue our debate on the statements by the council and the commission (2021/2923 (rsp)).
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first and foremost, i wish to thank the honourable members very much for this very interesting debate. i think that the very broad scope of our debate today also shows that these are guidelines that will address a number of different issues. they will also mirror the input that we have gotten from many stakeholders: that of the member states, that of industry, that of ngos – as said, more than 700 contributions. for us the important thing, of course, is that the guidelines work. but where they should work is where the market cannot deliver. what we have ahead of us is enormous, and we need to crowd in private investment so that where there is a business case for green, it is a business case that is being pursued. that goes, for instance, for energy efficiency in buildings. here, of course, support can be given, but that would be if the payback time is more than five years, because within five years, actually there is a very good business case for private investment in energy efficiency in buildings. i want to address a few of the specific comments. there has been a debate about how to support industry. this is not about small, medium—sized or large businesses. this is about energy intensity, because there are challenges when it comes to decarbonisation. for some businesses they are deep. this is why we suggest the contracts for difference. this is why we support decarbonisation. this is why we want hydrogen to become a real thing, and that transition does not come for free. here we need to help out, because the risk for the individual business is too big. i fully acknowledge the need for reductions when the levies are high – the levies on top of the very cost of producing energy, but also very high levies to support and finance the green transition. here reductions i think must be seen in the light of the risk of relocation due to very high levels of electro intensity, but also trade intensity. where those indicators are low, so not very electricity intensive, not very trade intensive, well then there is the high risk of distortion if aid is given compared to others. on the other hand, if there is a very high electro intensity, a very high trade intensity, obviously there is a risk of distortion between inside and outside of the union. levy reductions are usually financed by other consumers. very often, they are financed by household consumers. so there is a balance to be kept here. of course, now it’s very difficult to think about such a situation when we have very high energy prices. but in a situation where prices are more normal, of course, it is important to maintain that there is a price signal for energy efficiency investments to be profitable. i have taken good note of the many inputs on support for industry, and here we need to find a good balance. on the many comments on how to move away from fossil fuels, obviously, i have taken very good note of that as well because we have very strong targets for 2030 and for 2050 and obviously the commission fully subscribes to this. this is why we propose only to support gas on a transitional basis and only insofar as compatible with 2030 and 2050 goals, which means no lock—in effect or stranded assets. on the debate about nuclear, you will know, of course, that we do not address nuclear energy in these guidelines. nuclear support is, if approved, approved directly on the treaty. you will see that in the hinckley point decision and also on the more recent decisions. here we rely on regulation and lean on regulation. i think it is very important that here state aid only has a supporting role. what is the real role in our transition is, of course, the targets that have been set up for 2030 and 2050, the work that you have done already. i was very taken by the comments of the member of this house, mr băsescu, because equal treatment of member states is an essential principle here. without that, the level playing field would disappear. the single market would be completely fragmented. this is also why, when we work on these guidelines, we need to take into consideration that aid should be only proportional, necessary. it should be limited to achieving what we want to achieve so that richer member states cannot outplay not so rich member states when it comes to this support. it is important to help each other to get this right. on closure aids for coal: we have a new chapter on closure aids and that allows for support, in particular for social and environmental measures linked to closure, so the exceptional cost. of course, now it should happen when we also have the just transition funds, while we have the funding available to enable the regions actually to do the transition. actually, i think on balance there’s food for thought from us, but there’s also i think, a lot of support in this house for state aid rules to be there. indeed, to allow for new technologies to get the necessary support to get started, to get the cost curve down, but also in recognising how the previous guidelines have helped us for renewable energies to stand on their own feet. now we have renewables being built without state support when it is tried and tested, and there is a market. that market created by the targets that you have set up. that is the balance that we are trying to get to here, to push to be market—creating, for private investment to take its full effect, but for state aid to be available where it’s necessary and where it makes a lot of good sense. one of the things that we will also continue considering is, of course, how to make sure that there is ownership, how to make sure that energy communities, that smaller providers can see themselves in an energy system that consist of micro, regional and big players alike to help us preserve our energy security. i would like to thank you very much because i think that what we have achieved tonight is, of course, food for thought for us, but just as much, i think, a very strong support for the many actors who needs to invest right now in order for us to achieve our green deal objectives. so on that note, i will thank you very much for taking part today and for allowing this debate to happen.
the chairman of the council. mr president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a global community of citizens. the council will closely monitor future developments, in particular the reform of state aid in support of the digital and green transition of the european union. it is essential that the instruments proposed in the multiannual financial framework, such as the investeu fund and horizon europe, have the necessary flexibility to facilitate this transition without compromising the foundations of the internal market. we look forward to the commission's initiatives, which were also announced by the commissioner today and which will be discussed in the council, particularly in the competitiveness council, if necessary. thank you again for your discussion.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 21 october 2021. (the sitting was suspended at 8.11 p.m.)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the right to a healthy environment (2021/2924 (rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the right to a healthy environment. we have to acknowledge that environmental degradation, climate change and unsustainable development constitute some of the most pressing and serious threats to the ability of present and future generations to enjoy their human rights. the european union fully supported the resolution presented at the 48th session of the un human rights council this month. the resolution, proposed by a core group of countries, including slovenia, recognised for the first time that having a clean, healthy and sustainable environment is indeed a human right. this is in line with what this parliament called for in october 2020. in this resolution, the human rights council called on states to work together and with other partners to implement this newly recognised right. the issue will now go to the un general assembly for further consideration. in view of the important upcoming un conferences – the cop15 on biodiversity that started last week in kunming, and the cop26 in glasgow, scheduled for next month – the european union will continue to work with the rest of the world to protect the climate and nature. regarding biodiversity, allow me to also welcome the recent kunming declaration, ‘ecological civilization: building a shared future for all life on earth’, from the high-level segment of cop15, including on behalf of the european union. it contains, inter alia, the commitment to actively enhance the global environmental legal framework and strengthen environmental law at national level to protect biodiversity and combat its illegal use, and to consider, respect and promote human rights when taking action to protect biodiversity. the eu has its own biodiversity strategy for 2030, which is a comprehensive, ambitious and long-term plan to protect and restore the natural environment and reverse ecosystem degradation. the strategy aims to put europe’s biodiversity on the road to recovery by 2030, showing that the eu is ready to take the lead in tackling global biodiversity issues. as far as environmental protection legislation goes, the council looks forward to the commission’s proposal for a revision of the environmental crime directive. the review of this directive will contribute to the implementation of the goals of the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy, which both stressed the need to strengthen efforts to combat environmental crime. in this context, it is particularly important that the future directive fully respects and contributes to the preservation of the rights and principles set out in the eu charter of fundamental rights, notably, the fundamental rights enshrined in article 37 on environmental protection in accordance with the principle of sustainable development. the council is looking forward to this upcoming proposal and will start work on it as soon as it is on the table. the council is also actively examining the commission’s proposal from last april for a corporate sustainable reporting directive, which is part of the european green deal. for the presidency, the file is a priority. we are working on establishing a position in order to start negotiations between the co-legislators as soon as possible. finally, i would like to stress our obligation to respect, protect and promote human rights, including in all actions undertaken to address environmental challenges, and to take measures to protect the rights of all, as recognised in different international instruments. this is particularly true for the most vulnerable segments of the population that are more acutely impacted by environmental harm.
member of the commission. – madam president, human rights and a healthy environment go hand in hand, and that’s what this debate is about this evening. it’s true for all, but it’s particularly important for children, women, indigenous peoples and local communities, because these groups are more vulnerable than others to the effects of climate change and environmental degradation, as the minister mentioned. the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment is therefore related to other rights and international obligations and it has a direct impact on our livelihood. the planetary crisis is the defining crisis of our time. with the european green deal we’ve put tackling climate and environmental challenges at the very top of the european agenda. there will be no sustainable future or human well-being without tackling this crisis – climate, biodiversity and of course pollution. the commission welcomes the attention that this parliament is giving to an important matter, and we take good note of your call for a right to a healthy environment in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the eu actively supports the implementation of the charter. the charter sets out the principle of integrating environmental protection into the policies of the union. it requires that, and i quote, ‘a high level of environmental protection and the improvement of the quality of the environment must be integrated into the policies of the union and ensured in accordance with the principle of sustainable development.’ the commission is fully playing its role and is monitoring the progress made in mainstreaming fundamental rights in all aspects of climate and environmental action. in the same spirit, existing eu environmental laws contain safeguards to ensure a healthy environment, and the court of justice of the european union has recognised that such legislation gives individuals the opportunity to challenge decisions or omissions by public authorities that infringe these rights. since it was included in the treaty of amsterdam more than 20 years ago, sustainable development has been one of the fundamental objectives of the european union. for example, it is enshrined in article 11 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which i quoted earlier. other pieces of eu environmental legislation have specific requirements related to the protection of human health, for example. we have laws on air quality, bathing water and drinking water. these requirements create rights which can be invoked by individuals and environmental associations before national courts. the court of justice has also confirmed that environmental associations are entitled to bring forward judicial challenges related to the protection of nature. we are happy to see that this has contributed significantly to finding practical ways to protect, conserve and restore our biodiversity. another objective of the green deal is to improve access to justice, both at eu and national level. we are pursuing different actions to ensure that citizens can obtain information, participate in decision-making and go to court on environmental matters. more recently, the aarhus regulation was amended by the co-legislators to increase the possibility for civil society and the wider public to scrutinise eu decisions affecting our environment. by working on these key areas the eu is taking concrete steps to implement the requirements of the charter. we want to improve the health and quality of life of citizens and protect the health and wellbeing of people from environmental-related risks. at the international level, the eu and its member states are actively promoting discussions in the united nations, including in the context of the un general assembly and in the human rights council, on the right to a healthy environment. together with member states, we regularly sponsor resolutions on the subject and fully supported the work of the un special rapporteur on the right to a healthy environment. just last month, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe proposed a draft for an additional protocol to the european convention on human rights – the right to a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment. we therefore particularly welcome the resolution adopted by the un human rights council a few days ago, which for the first time recognises the human right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment. the european union is very much at the forefront of global efforts to fulfil the right to a healthy environment. an example, the eu action plan on human rights and democracy acknowledges that human rights are increasingly intertwined with global environmental challenges. in order to achieve the actions in this plan, we will be working to support third countries to fulfil their obligations to protect the environment and the health of their citizens. we will be doing so by massively investing in green priorities in the eu’s external funding and by delivering on our ambitious spending targets on climate and biodiversity. this includes doubling the eu’s biodiversity spending, as announced by president von der leyen in her state of the union speech. another key area to invest in is environmental governance and justice. human rights laws require states to take special measures to respect, protect and fulfil the rights of those who are most at risk from environmental harm. access to justice in environmental matters and access to information and public participation in decision-making are fundamental human rights. they are enshrined in implementing principle 10 of the rio declaration on environment and development and international instruments such as the aarhus convention and the escazú agreement. these are good examples of how we are working to involve powerful agents of change in our societies, notably human rights defenders, indigenous peoples, minorities, women and young people in policymaking. this is all in pursuit of a just transition for all. i applaud the environmental human rights defenders who are on the frontline protecting the rights of their communities, communities who are often among the first to suffer the effects of environmental degradation and climate change. the eu provides protection to environmental human rights defenders and indigenous peoples who are facing unprecedented levels of threats and attacks. it is worth, but sad, to recall a very worrying situation. last year, 2020, at least 331 human rights defenders were killed. sixty-nine percent of them were working on land, indigenous and environmental rights. this is wholly unacceptable. since its launch in 2015, protectdefenders.eu has supported almost 12 000 land and environmental rights and indigenous rights defenders, 6 370 of whom were women, representing the main group supported by this eu-funded mechanism. all this said, there is still much more to do. we need to ensure that every single citizen enjoys their right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment, and i want to give you the assurance that the commission will continue to take action, both locally and globally, to make this a reality.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, climate change is the greatest threat to human health: the same unsustainable choices that are killing the planet are killing people today. this was stated last week by the world health organization. also, as has been recently mentioned, the right to a healthy environment was endorsed as a recognized international right at a historic meeting of the united nations human rights council. i would say that it is perhaps the most universal of human rights because the environment is not an abstraction, it represents the space in which we humans and all living beings live, and on which our health, our quality of life and the existence of future generations depend; it is a collective and intergenerational right, as the german constitutional court has recently recognized: that is why this house has already asked for its inclusion in article 37 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. but i want to point out that we have to act quickly, quickly, because the destruction of our ecosystems is evident before our eyes and it is not just happening outside our borders, it is happening here in europe. one example: there are ecosystems of enormous, unique value, such as the lagoon and the coast of the mar menor in murcia, in my country, which are dying before our eyes. citizens have mobilized and are calling for greater protection for this environment: the recognition of the legal personality of the mar menor. i am saying this as an example because i believe that to make progress in strengthening the legal protection of our ecosystems is to make progress in recognizing and respecting the right to a healthy environment which is the right of present generations, but, let us not forget, also of future generations: it is our heritage, it is the best legacy we can give.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the united nations human rights council has indeed called for the universal recognition of the right to a healthy environment. it was time and it is a strong signal: a signal that, no, the laws of the economy are not above the laws of nature and that, yes, the issues of ecology and social justice are one and the same. so i hear us here saying that enforcing this right is a political priority. but it takes courage, in this case, to put in place a real policy of environmental justice. how can we justify today that in a country like france the difference in life expectancy between the richest and the poorest is more than 13 years? what justification can we give for this, for this injustice which is obviously of an environmental nature? how can we explain that in guadeloupe or martinique, 90% of the population is contaminated with chlordecone and the soil has been polluted for more than 500 years? throughout europe, in the former mining areas, the travellers' areas, the refugee camps, the deprived neighbourhoods, environmental injustice reigns and the less wealthy are constantly the most exposed to all forms of environmental violence. european companies are also causing ecocide in third countries. this includes uranium in niger, oil and gas projects in suriname and mozambique, and palm oil in indonesia. ecocide is being committed. to avoid these, the right to a healthy environment must be recognised in our fundamental standards - the charter, of course, but also a european environmental treaty. as you will have understood, the fight for the right to a healthy environment is both in line with the great mobilizations for human dignity and in line with the ecological leap forward we must make to protect our planet.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by 2025 the right to a healthy environment should be a given for all my compatriots in the five french overseas departments. i really wanted to raise your awareness, commissioner, about the health pass which restricts the freedoms of workers, consumers and the health sector and which is creating tensions in guadeloupe and martinique in particular. this is contrary to the right to a healthy environment which ensures our freedoms and our right to come and go. only a minority of my fellow indians are vaccinated today. understand that my compatriots from guadeloupe and martinique, who have suffered several health scandals such as chlordecone or sargassum, for example, find it difficult today to trust again the public word, that of mr macron's government, since the contamination of chlordecone has left a lasting mark on thousands of generations of west indians. that is why we do not trust the word of mr macron's government. today we must be free in a healthy environment and not allow our freedoms to be restricted. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the id group. our aim is to ensure a healthy environment for everyone, which means that everyone has access to safe drinking water. we want to enjoy a healthy environment. thousands of my fellow guadeloupians and martiniquans are unable to access it. and what could be healthier and more vital than having access to clean water today, in 2021? commissioner, i have a few questions to ask you which are vital in the health field for my fellow caribbean people. do you intend to put in place an action plan to help the west indies develop sanitation networks, develop programmes to provide access to safe drinking water for all? because my fellow-citizens in the west indies should have the right to tap water, like all my fellow-citizens in france, in the hexagon. today, in guadeloupe and martinique, we need means to combat faulty pipes, sometimes with asbestos. it's been going on for over 50 years. it is important for the health of the thousands of families who are counting on me, as the mep for overseas, to deliver this message to you today. in the name of territorial equity, in the name of article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the name of the right to a healthy environment, i ask you to act and to act swiftly.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, allow me to say a few words, which you will of course count against my speaking time, to thank you, to thank my colleagues for having chosen me to represent this group and to wish, with all the political groups in this house, the best possible cooperation in the coming weeks with issues which are particularly important, both to the commission and to the council. what a moment to take the lead of the third pro-european group in this house, at a time when, in two weeks, european citizens have been entitled to a challenge by the polish government to the foundations of the rule of law and the legal architecture, to anti-european campaigns financed by the hungarian government and to gross insults - sorry, mr minister - by the slovenian prime minister who is presiding over the council of the union. and we heard yesterday morning the polish prime minister asking us and asking europe to solve the real problems. i agree with this statement: the real problems must be solved. but whose fault is it if not the council members who use the european institutions for internal policy debates? so yes, europe is serious. europe has rules, europe has political coherence, and above all, europe has an objective: to make europeans live better, more freely, more equally in an unstable world. europe must also - and i support the call of the pro-european political group renew europe - make its voice heard, the voice of europeans, the voice of europeans who are convinced, who are committed to values and who want concrete solutions to our problems. madam president of the commission, mr minister, you will always find the renew europe group supportive of finding solutions to rising energy prices. the most vulnerable will not be able to pay the bills. the green deal is not a problem, it is a solution, and we will find solutions for autonomy vis-à-vis third countries and for a decarbonised europe. we can also think about this with commissioner kadri simson. the renew group will also continue to support companies in finding solutions to raw material shortages, such as those currently affecting the shutdown of factories. the industrial strategy must be made a top priority, as thierry breton has just said, to reduce our strategic dependence on rare earths, silicon and semiconductors which are important for our industry. i am always at your side when it comes to making progress on the pact on migration and asylum: here in this house, in the council and in the commission, we can find a balance between solidarity and responsibility. we are always at your side to defend the fourth generation trade agreements which are the only ones capable of reassuring our people. the renew europe group will nevertheless build a balance of power at interinstitutional level to defend parliament's position. we are asking the council to react strongly to the united kingdom's questioning of the agreements signed by the european union. we must defend europe's interests in these agreements. we also ask the european council for real commitments on covax, to continue vaccinating the world - that was a request, a strong request, from our political group. i have a conviction, which is certainly shared by this house, that no european lives any less well because of the primacy of european law. no european lives any less well. that is a certainty. no european lives any less well because of the luxembourg court. no european is living less well because our colleagues here in this house will be monitoring the member states for compliance with the rules by the members of the council. no european lives any less well. i don't know. but we have a responsibility. mr minister, madam president, we are counting on you to ensure that the council makes concrete progress, putting all the unacceptable attacks on europe behind us.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, the far-right's attacks on democracy must be at the heart of the debates at the next european council. what is happening in poland is the result of a carefully planned operation to destroy democracy and the rule of law. by putting the judges on the stand, the far-right government is taking almost full power and doing so with a very clear purpose: to have a free hand to harass lgbti people, silence opposition and prevent women from having abortions. this drift is very serious. and the polish government is diverting attention by stirring up the thorny debate on the primacy of european law over constitutions. mrs von der leyen, i listened to you yesterday and the day before. let me tell you that you are falling into their trap by going into this field to claim unconditional and absolute primacy which does not exist in fact. the issue is not here. no, european law does not always take precedence over national constitutions and i think we should introduce a principle of non-regression so that european rules can never lead to a loss of social and ecological rights at national level, as is too often the case. but yes, democratic principles and fundamental rights must be inviolable in europe. a political response is therefore needed and i am questioning the responsibility of all those who took part in the witch hunts launched by the far right. it is not muslims or immigrants who put us all at risk, but reactionary dictatorships in training, like morawiecki in poland, orbán in hungary or janša in slovenia and those who are inspired by them, like zemmour and le pen in france. when the states refuse austerity, you immediately put a knife to their throats. but when the far right destroys democracy, you look down, that's enough! stop procrastinating and take the necessary sanctions against the far right. i also call attention to another top priority: the financing of the ecological and social bifurcation. europe is preparing to lecture the world at cop26 by claiming to be the champion of climate change, but it stubbornly refuses to go to the money to take action, as in the case of the trillions hidden by the pandora papers thieves in tax havens. and you missed a golden opportunity to end tax evasion by multinationals by giving your blessing to a minimum corporate tax rate of only 15% internationally. this is a shame, because it is barely higher than in notorious tax havens like ireland, whereas a rate of 25%, for example, would have allowed us to recover at least €120 billion more each year. the result is that multinationals are rubbing their hands together and the global race to tax dumping is likely to accelerate a little further. so what are you waiting for to finally get back the money stolen from tax evaders? this is the absolute prerequisite for launching the great climate project and fighting inequalities. the rest of it, the lord will see to it, words, words, words. let me say one last thing about energy prices: you will not solve the problem of soaring prices until you get out of the logic of the market, in which speculators and shareholders get rich while people pay their profits. so please, for the people, let's put aside the logic of the market for once and have the courage to organise a blockade of energy and basic commodity prices at european level.
madam president, perhaps the most admirable thing about this house is our ability to debate without taking the opinion of the people into account, disregarding their choices and pursuing a relentless process of imposing on the member countries, on the nations, an ideological corpus, a legal chain whose aim is to deprive them of their sovereignty. raymond aron was talking about an invisible federalism and this is the one that is gradually destroying nations, organizing a "systemic" migration subversion - i think that's a qualifier you appreciate - and subjecting member countries to its unyielding yoke. at each meeting of the european council, there is an increasing intrusion into areas of national policy which have nothing to do with the treaties. tomorrow it will be health, the day after tomorrow defence, and by trying to impose the primacy of community law in these areas, it is the very identity of nations that is at stake. your approach to the energy transition process, your method, is more precariousness, more poverty and less purchasing power for citizens. when you say that eu law takes precedence over national law, including constitutional provisions, that does not reflect the treaties. that's a lie. it is the face of your project to steal our identities. we prefer, with maurice druon, to repeat that "power, without the consent of those over whom it is exercised, is a deception that never lasts long, an eminently fragile balance between fear and revolt, and which is suddenly broken when enough men become aware of sharing the same state of mind". you could have learned the lessons of brexit: it is not. we do not want the process that is organising a flood of migration. some european nations have fully realised this and will reject this crazy policy of the immigration pact which wants to see a civilization replace ours on our soil. we do not want this process, which is blaming our assembly on the member states. hungary and poland, as we heard yesterday, are constantly under fire from the threat of suspension of the recovery plans, on the sole ground that they want to preserve their identity, their history and their way of life. the citizens of the nations of europe have had enough. the europe to which they aspire is that of nations and freedoms, that of cooperations freely agreed upon. it is certainly not the result of a brussels centralism which despises the nations.
madam president, at this very moment thousands of people are being thrown against the borders of poland and lithuania, used as a new kind of weapon by the belarusian dictatorship, in an attempt to break the way into the european area. and this is the indication, one more indication, of this major migration challenge that our countries will have to face together in the coming years. it was at this very moment that some political groups, some colleagues here in the european parliament and even some of the commission decided to accuse the frontex agency, the border guard agency, on the grounds that it guards the borders, as if this were an attack on human dignity. we are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that our current impotence on the migration front will be against human dignity. now that the charges against frontex have been gradually dropped, it is essential that we can secure the agency's budget, but this will not be enough. we must also be able to guarantee the legal framework necessary to combat smuggling networks, to send back those who have entered illegally and to ensure that real pressure is put on third countries to ensure that they cooperate in this area. this is a matter for us, as 12 interior ministers of the european union have recently stated. unfortunately, the only answer they have received so far is that europe will not finance the construction of borders, walls and barriers. we know, however, that an effective response to this question is needed. the council will work on this by talking about the need to cooperate with third countries, but let us remember that no cooperation will be sufficient if we are not able to do this work effectively in the fight against illegal immigration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the defence of biodiversity and ecosystems, so rich in europe, is our duty to future generations. this is an achievable objective, but we must not fall into the kind of dogmatism to which this parliament is accustomed. many european officials have converted to religion, even to the cult, greta thunberg. i am a realist who knows europe's place in the world and the difficulties of our respective nations. against a background of climate culpability, this resolution therefore calls for massive transfers of wealth from the member states to the rest of the world. to hope for change from the third world is a utopian vision that will have no effect, no matter how much money is distributed. once again, we are alone in the battle of the ecology, while most of the world's pollution comes from america and china. cop26 is yet another example of the european paradox. we are constantly being asked to do more while at the same time ratifying harmful free trade agreements, the worst examples of unbridled globalisation and carbon footprints. we cannot do ecology without borders and it is therefore imperative to return to common sense by producing in europe and in france. whereas ecology is a matter of measures, limits and frontiers, the european union is making it a means of centralisation in favour of the global, the borderless and the monopolies; while ecology is a matter of democracy, participation and cooperation, the european union is making it a matter for bureaucrats and capital managers. that is why it is urgent to return to a national ecology which will preserve our way of life, an ecology which guarantees a better future for us, for all of us, and not a punitive ecology which will once again affect our fellow citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all looking forward to glasgow, but it must not be just another meeting for the united nations conference, but a decisive meeting for action to adapt to and combat climate change. the latest ipcc report makes it clear that the targets set so far by the signatories of the paris agreement will not achieve the goal of keeping global temperature rise below 2°c. the european union has done its part, with the green deal, the "fit for 55" climate law, which i also agree with those who have said it before me, is our response to the energy crisis, to the rise in energy prices, not the cause. but unfortunately, only a few days ago china announced that it would further increase the use of coal in its energy mix, following the position already taken by other countries in the world, including industrialized countries. the cop must therefore be an opportunity to get all international actors to do what the european union has done, by laying out in black and white the commitments they intend to make, starting with a binding and global agreement on the phasing out of coal and an agreement on the disbursement by 2025 of the fund to accompany the global south in the ecological and energy transition. we have had a health emergency, and now we have a responsibility to prevent the climate emergency that is already happening at our latitudes from causing irreparable damage to our ecosystems and disrupting our lives again.
mr. talman, what are you doing? my colleagues! i am going to the climate summit in glasgow next week, but my greatest fear is that this meeting will again be a meeting of much talk and little workshop. the eu and the rest of the world must agree to significantly increase their climate ambitions if we are to meet the 1.5 degree target. we need to work together. more countries must adopt binding climate action targets for climate neutrality by 2050. we have to bring china and india with us. we should also be at the forefront of the drive for a global price on carbon dioxide. but it is also vitally important that we recognize that not enough has been done at the international level, but not at the eu level either. we need to do our own homework and move quickly on the ambitions of our climate package and the work we are doing right now. we must go from words to deeds. we have to walk the talk.
mr president, climate change is a reality and the person who just spoke is also the one who condemns the lives of our children for his populist glory. i strongly condemn his words from the bottom of my heart. and those who link the spike in energy prices to our climate ambitions are playing the petty game of vladimir putin and his ilk. because it's our dependence on these fossil fuels that makes us vulnerable. i am convinced that the future will be essentially renewable. but this transition will also come at a price. at european level, it is essential to make the guidelines on state aid for climate, energy and the environment more flexible as soon as possible. at the world trade organisation level, solutions must be found to remove tariffs on goods used for the production of renewable energy or the improvement of energy efficiency. the ministerial conference on 30 november will be an opportunity not to be missed. ladies and gentlemen, the financing of the fight against climate change and the energy transition presents us with a titanic challenge. in this context, the european green bond regulation, for which i am responsible in my political group, can really create a climate of confidence and transparency, in order to encourage investors to opt for green bonds. because, despite promising developments and our pioneering role in this field, only 2.6% of bonds issued in europe are green bonds. we can do better, and we have to do it fast.
mr president, commissioner, minister, five years after the paris agreement, the low level of commitment of nations around the world to climate neutrality is alarming. and if we do nothing, or do very little, the planet will see a global temperature increase of 3.2 degrees by 2100, more than double the target set at cop21. the natural disasters that have been the subject of european news have once again reminded us of the urgency of action. the paris agreement must therefore be respected, but we will have to go even further. cop26 will be the barometer of global climate action and it will be essential to reaffirm and even revise the target of limiting temperature rise to 1.5 degrees. otherwise, the victims will number in the millions. europe must be a major player in urging states to increase their national contributions, to legislate for the climate, to support citizens in this transition while putting in place ambitious strategies in all sectors of the economy. to really question ourselves or to screw up our future forever? here is the choice before us.
mr president, commissioner, minister, 'you cannot eat coal, you cannot drink oil and you cannot breathe gas'. these are the words of vanessa nakate, a young ugandan woman who spoke a few days ago at the youth climate summit in milan. and she's right about that. we need to change our paradigm, unless we accept that this summer's climate catastrophes are a foretaste of the hell that could be ours tomorrow. three main objectives for this cop26 to change the trajectory: climate neutrality by 2050 for all g20 countries; at least $100 billion a year to help developing countries - far from it. the commission has also proposed that the 188 national plans be evaluated every five years instead of 10, which is far from sufficient in view of the objectives. because the urgency is to mobilize, to convince the reluctant ones such as russia, china, india, brazil and others. today, even on the tracks of paris, we are heading straight for almost three degrees of warming. we're going straight into the wall. quite frankly, many of us here are tired of using superlatives every time we have to talk about climate in this forum. we're sick of words. we want records.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are learning today - and it is finally confirmed today, in 2021 - that one of the largest european companies, total, has known and been aware of the climate consequences of its actions since 1971. 1971: 50 years, 50 years we've known, our companies have known, and we're working our way up and down the ladder. we are also learning today, on the same day, at the same time, that in the coming years we will produce 240% more coal, 71% more gas and 57% more oil than we need to meet the commitments of the paris agreement. we could have avoided the tragedy, but denial, collusion, doubt... we didn't. we have stuck to the fossil fuel route. it's time to change positions. let's take responsibility for this. the glasgow cop is supposed to be the death knell for fossil fuels. let us condemn the eco-dead companies and with denmark, costa rica, thousands of scientists and thousands of ngos, let us decide and launch a treaty to prevent the proliferation of fossil fuels. we must stop production immediately so that companies like total can never again knowingly lead us to disaster.
mr president, commissioner, cop 26 is a major event. the european union has committed itself to being the first carbon neutral continent by 2050, and that is a good thing. it is clear that with the climate package, the promises have been translated into concrete actions. but, on our own, we only account for 10% of global emissions. this means that without a global approach and without global commitment at cop 26, we will not get very far. there is therefore an urgent need to increase investment in developing countries and to make it a top priority to phase out coal worldwide by 2050. but for that we must stop being naive. the european commission must also show courage in the matter of nuclear energy, which is essential to the achievement of our objectives. how is it that we still do not know, despite the conclusions of several groups of experts in this field, whether nuclear energy will be included in the taxonomy by the european commission? how is it possible that at a time of soaring energy prices, of the necessary decarbonisation of our energy mix, we are still faced with the question of supporting low-cost, carbon-free energy? ladies and gentlemen, the success of cop 26 must be built on our experience and realism, not on a deadly ideology which refuses to believe in innovation and would have us believe that we must decrease in order to progress.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, recent events in rome have once again drawn attention to the danger of far-right groups, which use both physical and moral violence as a method of political action. they are also yet another sign of a growing phenomenon affecting every member state of the european union. the attacks on a trade union and a hospital, which involved members of a far-right political force, are the subject of a debate in italy on the legitimate demand for the dissolution of fascist-inspired political movements. in order to gain converts and popularity, extremist and violent groups exploit the discomfort of social groups arising from the current emergency and health context in order to attack symbols of democracy, institutions, civil liberties, fuelling the rhetoric of hatred, xenophobia, racism and other forms of intolerance. these vile and deplorable behaviours, which offer no answer to the problems of employment, safety and health, are an insult to the values of democratic societies and must be condemned and prosecuted with all the force possible.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is sometimes like instant coffee. it looks like coffee, it smells like coffee, it tastes like coffee to some people, but it's not coffee at all. democracy is a fragile thing and i don't want to use the european parliament's floor to settle political scores. when the nazis came to the czech republic, then czechoslovakia, my family was the first to be attacked. when the communists came to power in what was then czechoslovakia, my family was the first to be targeted. every extreme left or right brings one thing to bear, and that's what they all have in common. no lie is sacred to them. we don't want extremists running this country. we do not want to return europe to the track that should have ended here. we don't want anyone who ostracizes another for his opinion. we want plurality, but it is not acceptable when someone comes up with extreme views and tries to present these extreme views, which are based on lies, in public. i think democracy has its limits, and that's what we're talking about today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would never have wanted a debate like this here in the chamber today, but what has happened in my country with the squadron attack on the headquarters of a trade union, the cgil, by individuals belonging to forza nuova and other far-right organisations deserves a firm and decisive response, also from this parliament. when you see acts with clear neo-fascist overtones, with the deliberate choice of targets and the use of violence as a method of political action to attack democracy, institutions and trade unions, you cannot make the distinctions that i have heard here. and such acts should not be reduced to the acts of a few isolated violent individuals, as has happened in my country, including parties in parliament, with the specific intention of ambiguously and irresponsibly minimizing the inspiration of these political organizations to the fascist legacy from which they can never fully distance themselves. but beware, because the attack on democracy does not come only from the demonstrations of right-wing extremists, but also from racist insults. it is also changing in europe from illiberal laws that cancel out the rights of minorities, freedom of expression, to the building of walls, the culture of intolerance, populism, nationalism, the rhetoric of easy solutions. that is why we need a clear position from the whole of parliament, without exception. and i remember that this debate was not wanted by the democratic party, but it was voted by the majority of the groups in the conference of presidents. but we also need, i conclude, a renewed commitment to the crises of today, to european integration, to democracy, to human rights and to the rule of law, with which we have ensured peace and prosperity in europe for decades.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the extreme right-wing violence in rome is part of a europe-wide trend of radicalisation of right-wing agitation and increasing violence on the political right. that's sad and outrageous. in the corona era, this phenomenon has intensified. in august, a bomb was thrown at a sinti camp in vicenza. people are scapegoated because of their ethnicity or skin color. people with roma background have been beaten, humiliated, locked up in their neighborhoods, deprived of access to drinking water and health care, by the police. politicians are inciting against roma and calling them the carriers of covid-19. anti-gypsyism and anti-semitism were fueled by conspiracy theories. we have also in this house well-known actors whose racist slogans we have to put up with, such as mr dzhambazki or mr zanni. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. ladies and gentlemen, we must stand together as democratic forces against these actors. we certainly have different opinions on what measures are most effective against the pandemic. but it is clear that we are discussing this in the context of democratic values and not by rushing around and spreading fear and terror in the streets as intellectual arsonists. we must protect all parts of our society from this right-wing hatred. we need to take firm action. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, on 2 july, orbán, le pen, salvini and other far-right leaders signed a declaration to 'reform europe'. 23-24 september: orbán rolls out the red carpet to them at a summit in budapest. october 9: forza nuova party leaders incite the crowd to violence in rome. on 8 and 9 october, at the eye event in our parliament, young europeans from minorities were harassed and their workshops disrupted by other young people invited by the french far right. yes, commissioner, they are no longer hiding. we're the ones who turn a blind eye. we have so normalised violence, racism and hatred that even marine le pen is no longer the most radical candidate in france and the far right now has 33%. look at rainer opolka's exhibition in germany, "the wolves are back". yes, it is a serious time. the republican and democratic blocs must come together and not be divided over dogmatisms that no longer matter in the face of these hatreds and their consequences.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. abortion is not, has not been, and will never be ok. it is important to realize that those who have an abortion experience great suffering, sometimes for the rest of their lives. commissioner dali has expressed concern about the availability of abortion in poland. commissioner, what about abortion in malta? is it not true that malta has the most restrictive legislation on this subject in the european union? is that why the malta issue is not being raised in the european parliament, because malta has a left-wing government and that is why the left-wing majority in the european parliament is blind in not one but both eyes? it shows how full of hypocrisy you are. this debate is a testament to the degradation of the rule of law in the european union. you think abortion is ok, that it's legal? no, not at all! please note that abortion is not and has not been a universal human right and is not covered by any legally binding international treaty. you've been discussing abortion in texas recently, so i think it's going to be a parliament not just of the european union, but of the world. no, you're wrong. how is the issue of abortion regulated in international law? the un convention on the rights of the child states that a child, because of his mental and physical immaturity, requires special safeguards and care, including adequate legal protection both before and after birth. but you think he has no right to live. the constitutional court in poland, acting legally and lawfully, ruled that one of the three conditions for termination of pregnancy is illegal, and therefore it abolished it. the other two are still functional. argue facts based on truth, not imagination, falsehood and lies.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, these days all eyes are on poland because of its constitutional court. already one year ago, on 22 october, this politically controlled, illegitimate court ruled that abortions should be nearly banned. so women’s rights in this case have everything to do with the rule of law. i think it’s time that this house recognises that. the link between the rule of law and women’s rights is a direct one. where there is no rule of law, there can be no respect for women’s rights and poland is a good example of that. but the women are resisting. we have invited a few of them here to a press conference this morning, and they are freedom fighters, they are democracy fighters, they are fighters for women’s rights, and they are fighters for the rule of law. they are telling us to step up, to step up our game, because they are strong, they are inspiring, they are really inspiring. but they expect more from us. so let’s do more. let’s not let one more day pass before we stand in solidarity with all polish women.
madam president, today’s debate is yet another example of the european parliament’s leftist and liberal forces interfering in the matters of a sovereign member state. yesterday, you were attacking the decision of the constitutional court of poland in a more than four-hour-long debate, but you failed to realise that the polish court decision was a direct consequence of your own harmful policies. you’ve been transgressing your competences over and over again, with the intention to breach the treaties. you are calling for procedures and sanctions against democratically-elected governments solely because they do things that you may disagree with or you don’t like. you should finally accept that not every idea that you may have or come up with becomes automatically a human right. this house has to understand once and for all that there are areas where it is exclusively for member states, for governments and their citizens to make a decision, and not you. and this is going to remain like this, whether you like it or not. let’s make one thing clear today: you, the leftists in this house, are the greatest danger to european cooperation, exactly because you refuse to accept that there can be other views and opinions than your own.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago the now politicized polish constitutional court, which is now at the centre of the debate, ruled that abortion in the case of a serious and irreversible malformation of the foetus or an incurable or potentially fatal disease is contrary to the polish constitution. this is equivalent to making 98% of abortions illegal in poland. if the right to abortion is a sensitive issue and falls within the competence of each member state, the european parliament may decide. it even has to decide when it becomes a major public health issue. worldwide, a woman dies every nine minutes from an illegal abortion. poland already had one of the most restrictive abortion laws in europe until 2020, with more than 100,000 clandestine abortions per year. poland is also one of the european countries with the most difficult access to contraception, behind belarus, ukraine and turkey. while we are building the europe of health here, in this parliament, which simone veil, so committed to health issues, chaired, and while we are legislating to give all european citizens equal access to care, can we continue to accept that women, european citizens, are putting their lives at risk in this way? we know that restricting access to abortion does not reduce the number of abortions. according to who, in countries where abortion is totally banned or allowed only to preserve the life or health of a woman, only one in four abortions is safe. conversely, where abortion is legal for broader reasons, nine out of ten abortions are performed safely. the question, madam commissioner, which arises today is what the polish government is doing to the women who are putting their own lives in danger. what are we gonna do? what do you do with mothers who carry their babies for nine months knowing full well that they won't survive? unfortunately, poland is not the only country to have restricted its rights of access to abortion, but we must remain extremely vigilant so that public health is given priority.
madam president, in poland, women who campaign for abortion rights are being beaten, gassed, harassed and threatened with death. what they are suffering is an unprecedented brutality, a brutality of another time. women in general are presented as enemies in poland today by the government. this encourages extremist groups to target them without scruple. they also suffer institutional violence, such as prison at times. this desire to silence women is a clear demonstration of the polish government's strategy. once again in history, women's bodies are used as a tool of repression among others, in an authoritarian trajectory. because these violations of fundamental rights are not isolated. not only has the abortion ban been lifted, but the polish government has also severely restricted access to gynaecological services. it is opposed to sex education for young people. there is obviously the immense discrimination against transgender people and the overall attacks on the rights of lgbti+ people. in poland, some are building a project for a reactionary society which wants to lock women into a reproductive role and oppose any challenge to the patriarchal model. this social project has no place in the european union with our treaties and charters.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, polish women are not afraid. they are not afraid to risk their lives to have an abortion in secret. they are not afraid of death threats, because they dare to rebel. i personally do not know what revolts me more: the authoritarian excesses of the polish government or our inability to protect our fellow european citizens? the polish government is breaking free of all democratic rules and human rights are falling like dominoes. justice, media, lgbti people, women, all are persecuted in the heart of europe. how far will we let authoritarianism gangrene europe? no, the polish people are not afraid to stand up for their rights. so who's afraid? you are the commission and you are the council.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the latest revelations in the pandora files have made it abundantly clear to everyone that we need a comprehensive european policy, a strengthened legislative framework on money laundering and terrorist financing. the new legislative package in this area is therefore more than necessary and timely. it is essential that this framework is applied in the same way in all member states. i welcome the european commission's proposal for an anti-money laundering regulation, because only in this way will we harmonise the rules and close the loopholes in european legislation that criminals are skilfully exploiting to abuse the financial system. we need to establish effective supervision based on common supervisory methods and convergence of high standards in the financial sector. better cooperation between administrative, judicial and law enforcement authorities in the european union is also needed. in this regard, the exchange of information between financial intelligence units is of paramount importance. finally, to be effective, the fight against abuse must be based on a strong crossborder partnership and, consequently, on good information.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. money laundering creates inequality, distorts competition, weakens the internal market, the economy, the financial system and us as a european union. money laundering is a crime. the pandora papers revelations are the latest tip of the iceberg of many sobering, even hair-raising, tax and money-laundering scandals. the open pandora's box once again shows that the current measures are toothless, inadequate and sometimes do nothing. at the same time, infringement proceedings are pending against 17 member states for failure to implement the money laundering directive. we must therefore evaluate the existing arrangements to see whether they are suitable at all. and we must quickly begin the treatment of the new package proposed. let's make nails out of heads and make sure that money laundering is not the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have really welcomed this debate, and i think we all agree that, if the current system worked, we wouldn’t be reviewing it. so i welcome your support for our july package. it’s really important that you work hard and fast on this proposal. i want to speak to some of the points that were raised. to mr beck, who i think is not in the chamber, we are not abolishing, and have no intention to abolish, cash. cash is king, but cash must be clean, and, as we’ve heard in this debate, there is a lot of dirty cash floating through our financial system in europe, and it has got to stop. mr kelleher referred to the truth behind the dirty money, which is crimes against society, against children, and against women. it is just an evil pursuit and we have got to stop criminals in their tracks. so this is not just a financial issue. this is a massive social issue that we have a responsibility to address. when it comes to the idea of the tools we have, yes, we will use, and are using, all of the tools available, as i outlined in my opening remarks. specifically on beneficial ownership, we are looking very closely at the issue of beneficial ownership in a specific number of member states, and we are vigilant. on crypto, as was referred to earlier, yes, this area is now non—transparent, and in our new proposals there will be transparency on the transactions. so i deeply appreciate the debate here this evening and the passion you bring to it. this is a very important issue for us, and i want to assure you, as i said at the outset, not only will we implement the new proposals and work with you on them, we will continue to expect full implementation of existing rules in our member states. but the truth is that the fight against money laundering is a global fight, and therefore it requires global action. i think this was particularly shown, again, by the pandora papers investigation. at this stage, it is still to be determined whether, besides tax evasion, crimes related to the illicit source of wealth are involved. the commission and member states are working hard in the financial action task force to ensure that international standards are robust and up to date, including in the area of the transparency, as i have said, of beneficial ownership. this is a key area. but our anti-money laundering (aml) system is only as strong as its weakest link, and this is why we need more europe in this area. we need more europe to create bridges between supervisors, among financial intelligence units (fius) and between supervisors and fius, and we need bridges to ensure that the work carried out on the prevention side effectively feeds into the work of investigators, public prosecutors and asset recovery officers. our goal is not only to prevent financial crime, but also to bring criminals to justice and deprive them of their illicit proceeds. i count on your full support in the future negotiations on our aml package. we will work hard and we will work fast, and, if successful, we will reduce and eliminate the crime of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. i believe we can do this together.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. money laundering is one of the main ways in which organised crime, especially organised crime, infiltrates the legal economy and distorts its balance to the detriment of sound economic initiatives. the phenomenon is dangerously widespread. according to europol, suspicious transactions in europe amount to hundreds of billions of euros, or about 1.3% of eu gdp. the european union has adopted specific rules on this matter, which need to be strengthened. the court of auditors also noted the institutional fragmentation and lack of eu-wide coordination of the current anti-money laundering system and highlighted the need to strengthen european supervision of money laundering. the new legislative package presented by the commission is a step in the right direction towards strengthening the european framework for combating money laundering and terrorist financing, ensuring greater uniformity and overcoming the current fragmentation of the legislation. the new european anti-money laundering authority will also ensure that eu-wide supervision, which is currently insufficient, and the extension of financial services rules to virtual asset transfers will make a previously poorly regulated sector more transparent. these proposals must now be translated rapidly into comprehensive legislation to fill the gaps and make the fight against these pervasive phenomena more effective.
in writing. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is vital for financial stability and security in europe. legislative gaps in one member state have an impact on the eu as a whole. for this reason, eu rules must be implemented and supervised in an efficient and consistent way to fight crime and protect our financial system. the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important. in view of developments in capital markets and technological innovation, and in the run-up to the start of the negotiations on the anti-money laundering (aml) legislative package, this debate has been very timely. ensuring the efficiency and consistency of the eu aml framework is of paramount importance.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the approval of global tax agreements at the g20 summit in rome (30/31 october) (2021/2936 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i want to thank you for the opportunity to discuss the recent agreement reached in the oecd beps (addressing base erosion and profit shifting) inclusive framework. this agreement is an important milestone, which will pave the way for further work on the eu tax legislative initiative in the council. throughout the process, the council has supported the objective of reaching a global consensus-based solution that takes into account the interests of all member states. the fact is that the rules that govern international taxation right now have been in place for more than 100 years. that highlights the huge achievement this deal represents. the agreement of 136 countries, including all g20 members, has required efforts and a constructive approach by everyone at the table. while the need for quick measures to force fair taxation is well understood, an agreement that includes all partners of the eu is much better. now we have a firm statement with the new parameters for an international corporate tax framework and an ambitious implementation timeline. of course, it is a little early to speculate on the details of the multilateral convention that will be drafted to implement pillar one, or on what this convention will entail for eu law and our work. but let me recall one important aspect: one of the main objectives of the work of the inclusive framework was reforming the way the profits of digital giants are distributed between the countries where these giants have their headquarters and the countries where they realise some of their profits. the deal on both pillars represents a paradigm change, which recognises that digitalisation has a profound effect on the economy and taxation, more specifically. we also welcome the development of dispute prevention and resolution mechanisms, which will ensure tax certainty for all involved. the timeline for a multilateral convention in 2022, coming into effect in 2023, is ambitious, but we will do everything in our power to respect it. as for pillar two, which will strengthen the measures covered by pillar one, the agreed measures will remove a number of incentives for aggressive tax planning. i’m sure that we will continue working both with the eu and with our international partners to take further steps to ensure that the fair share of taxes is paid by everyone. i hope that the fact that all eu member states that participated in the oecd discussion are on board will open the door to a swift agreement in the council, once we receive the proposal from the commission. while being optimistic, we should nevertheless remain vigilant. the statement by the inclusive framework is a very important document, but it is still not a final agreement, and technical experts now have to turn it into a set of functioning rules. this is not an easy task, even though they have the necessary and globally agreed parameters for their work. to conclude, let me reiterate that this global deal represents a historic achievement and that we look forward to its speedy implementation by all international partners.
member of the commission. – mr president, last week’s endorsement by g20 finance ministers and the forthcoming endorsement by g20 leaders marks a key step towards the implementation of the historic global tax reform agreed in early october. with 136 jurisdictions on board, including developing countries, all g20 members, all oecd members, and all eu member states that are part of the inclusive framework, this is nothing less than a tax revolution and a huge success for multilateralism. we should be proud of it. as we emerge from the shadow of the pandemic, we have a unique opportunity to rebuild our economies on a new footing. we want to see not just a rebound, but a new era of sustained and sustainable growth. the pandora papers were another reminder of the injustices that characterise the global economic system today. the green and digital transition can only happen if it is based on fair taxation. everyone must pay their fair share. so this reset of global corporate taxation is a fundamental part of the change we need to see. reaching this agreement is a major step forward in creating fairness in our global tax system. but we are not there yet. we must now work swiftly to ensure the effective implementation of this major tax reform. this is why, next to the key parameters for both pillars laid down in the agreement, we have also agreed on an implementation roadmap for both pillar one and pillar two. we are working on a very ambitious timeline. the oecd secretariat is planning to finalise the pillar two model rules in five weeks. the text of the pillar one multilateral convention should be finalised in spring of 2022. i must insist that we all do our utmost to deliver on this timeline of the implementation roadmap. citizens do not ask for political agreements. they ask for effective action. on our side, once the agreement is finalised the commission will move very quickly to put it into practice in the eu. dg taxud is already drafting the directive for pillar two to be tabled as swiftly as possible once the model rules are all set at oecd level. we will also ensure a consistent and comprehensive implementation of pillar one at eu level. the european commission has worked hard to drive forward this international effort. getting to this point has required difficult choices for many countries, both in the eu and elsewhere. a spirit of compromise and common interest in europe and worldwide enabled us to get here. we should be proud of this triumph for multilateralism. now we must move forward together and without delay.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in recent weeks, there has been both good and bad news in the fight against unfair tax practices. the bad news was that the pandora papers reminded us once again that there is still much to be done in the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. the good news was that 136 countries agreed to a new common corporate tax framework with a global minimum tax and new rules for taxing the digital economy. this was a very strong sign of international cooperation. i am particularly pleased, commissioner, that ireland, hungary and estonia have finally managed to join the agreement. the european union should be at the forefront of this movement. this also means that, once the ink is dry, the commission should inform mr gentiloni, who is responsible, to start transposing it into european law. we are prepared to implement it quickly. but being at the forefront of the movement also means that we are committed to the agreements, including the commitment to refrain from unilateral digital taxes. i think that should also be part of the agreement. i would like to see a clear signal from the european commission. but it must also tell us how we can find other sources of revenue from the european union's own resources.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr. chairman, this is a historic agreement and a great victory for us social democrats. the system whereby a small tradesman pays a higher tax rate than a large multinational company is deeply unfair and must be changed. the minimum effective tax rate will allow for a fairer tax collection. the big guys will no longer be able to shop around for the best tax haven, and the european union will no longer be robbed of 190 billion euros a year. could it have been better? there's always a better way. but 15% is a lot more than zero anyway - what we have now. now the key is to implement the agreement, but also new initiatives to create a more equitable distribution of wealth. it's not the citizens who should pay for the way out of the crisis. the global economy has to be fair and we have to show that there are no untouchables.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, we are talking about a historic agreement here tonight. the word is galvaudé, used very often in this house, but this is the first time that 136 countries have agreed to update international tax rules that are almost a century old and have become totally unsuitable for the digital age. with two key principles, it was said, namely that everyone pays tax where he has to pay it by taxing large companies at the actual place of their activities and by setting a minimum tax rate for multinationals at 15%. with a minimum tax in place, companies will no longer be able to pit countries against each other. i hear some people say 15% is too low. and to tell you the truth, i think so too. but i prefer a global agreement at 15% to no global agreement at 20%. this is obviously a first step, an important first step which has enabled us to get everyone around the table. european citizens have high expectations in this area. we call on the commission to present as soon as possible its proposal for a directive on minimum taxation in order to ensure the very rapid implementation of this agreement within our european union. finally, i should like to welcome the fact that we were able to achieve unanimity among our member states on this complicated subject. it was said before me. it was not at all obvious a few weeks or months ago, but today the 27 member states have signed this agreement. this will certainly enable us, madam commissioner, to facilitate its implementation within the union. we want this to be a precursor to other unanimous tax agreements within the european union and i know how sensitive unanimity is. you know our position on this, commissioner.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although there are many uncertainties surrounding this tax revolution, particularly in its implementation, i support the principle of fairer taxation of multinationals and an effective minimum tax on profits. this revision of corporate taxation at the global level is a fundamental element of the change we need to see. everyone has to pay their fair share. it seems fair to me to reallocate a part of the tax on profits paid by multinationals to the so-called 'market' countries, i.e. those in which they carry out their activities. the tax will no longer be levied only where the head office is located. depending on its final design, a global minimum tax could reduce the shifting of profits across all sectors. it could also offer protection to the many developing countries that are heavily pressured to provide tax breaks and incentives to investors, potentially depriving them of additional tax revenues. the principles are laid down, but the details will also be of great importance. indeed, for this to work, the international community must help developing countries to untangle the tax incentives subject to stabilisation in their laws, treaties and contracts. otherwise, these countries would be doubly losers, by forgoing taxes because of the incentive on the one hand, and by losing taxes to developed countries on the other. the inclusion framework will therefore have to address this issue as a priority, which shows us the practical difficulties of this reform. finally, it should be noted that the minimum tax rate of 15% is much lower than the one recommended by the oecd working group, which is disappointing. but beyond the rate, and above all, the question of the tax base will also be paramount.
mr president, commissioner, then yes, we could spend the whole evening talking about this tax agreement which sets a corporate tax rate of 15% at the global level. it's a first, that's true. but the reality is that this agreement sets an effective rate of 15% when it could have been, when it should have been 21%. the reality is that this agreement only concerns a handful of multinationals. the reality is that this agreement favours the developed countries, leaving the poorest countries behind once again. it's the same story over and over again. so, to be a fool would be indecent. justice, tax, social, climate, it's the same fight and this fight requires a real change of course, a real ambition. that agreement is there. so we'll just have to deal with it. but there is nothing to prevent us from doing better in europe. since france will take over the presidency of the union from january, i am challenging its minister for the economy, bruno le maire, who is looking forward to this. firstly, in order to be completely transparent, can it publish the effective tax rate of the multinationals concerned in france and in europe? and finally, are you prepared, mr minister, to propose to your colleagues that the ambition of this agreement be increased by setting an effective minimum intra-european rate of at least 21%?
mr president, the global pandemic has led to a consensus on something as simple as large corporations having to contribute to the welfare state in the same way as small to medium-sized enterprises (smes). better late than never. the international agreement is good news. as the agreement was reached, the spanish government announced the minimum corporate rate of 15%, as recommended, but they are cheating: the 15% applies to the tax base, not to profits – not a small detail. the inability to properly tax large corporations and the very rich undermines the legitimacy of any redistributive system and demoralises honest taxpayers. when public figures get away with fraud and tax evasion, the moral compass of society is bankrupt. former king of spain juan carlos amassed huge sums as an international commissioner, all for the benefit of his family, including the present king. but they never pay taxes on these kickbacks, or ‘presents’, as they call them. but hey, no problem! spanish tax authorities, judges and political parties all agree: they will not investigate the dirty business of the monarchy. further proof that in spain we are not all equal before the law.
mr president, this agreement shows the ability of more than 130 countries to agree. having signatures below such a complicated technical agreement in a politically sensitive area shows that we can agree, and now i guess without any delay we should implement. this agreement doesn’t mean that we solved most of the tax issues in the european union. i can name a huge tax gap, especially in the vat area; high compliance costs especially for our smes; complication for firms that want to be active in the european single market. this is the list of our troubles. i wonder, if 130 countries can agree under the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) framework – and now i am turning to you, mr logar – why can 27 countries not agree under the eu framework and solve at least some of the very important tax problems within our union. thank you very much. i hope we will also move forward.
mr president, there’s no doubt that the global tax deal is historic, and not just because even ireland accepted it. for the first time in history, it allows a country to tax profits without the physical presence of a company on their territory and to ensure a global minimum effective tax rate. the social democrats have been, for a long time, strong and vocal supporters of this principle. so yes, it’s a historic deal. is it a final deal? let’s hope not. let it be the first of many deals, because i share the concerns: the minimum of 15% is still too low, certainly when compared to what the eu citizens pay on their income. physical presence is still too important, and the pandora papers shows that it’s still too easy to hide profits and wealth. so i see the deal as a boost in our lasting effort to fight tax avoidance and to make everyone pay their fair share. this deal is historic, but the work needs to continue.
mr president, commissioner, i am part of a generation that grew up in the 1980s in the midst of a neoliberal counterrevolution. a generation that was told that the state could not be everything, that it had to adapt to the triumphant globalisation, to be a winner, a generation that, whenever it proposed something, was told: yes, we would like to, but unfortunately it is not possible. a generation that has grown up with the use of pseudo-economic laws aimed at discrediting any legitimate demands of citizens. states were demonstrating their inability to defend the general interest. economics was their weapon and their language. so, yes, this global tax deal is not perfect. pillar 1: gas plant; 15%, the rate is not high enough. but if it's not 15 percent today, it's zero. today, the states decide together to go and get the money where it is. and, more importantly, we stop to show the impotence of the public power, a breach is finally opened. let's take advantage of it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. countless media reports paint a frightening picture of the state of human rights at our external borders. the images of violent pushbacks against people are a disgrace to our european union. because these are not isolated cases, as some would have us believe. it is a systematic attack on the right of asylum, on the geneva convention on refugees, in order to rewrite the rules of international protection, indeed the european values themselves. and all this on the backs of people who come to us in europe looking for protection and work, and instead are beaten and deported. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment. the commission is therefore clearly asked to initiate infringement proceedings and to stop the use of eu funds where pushbacks are taking place.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, children are freezing to death on the borders of europe, and your main concern is border protection and schengen? do you remember colleagues at the start of this mandate when a new portfolio was created, the european way of life – remember that? and remember the position that this house took about the promotion and the protection of the european way of life? well, compare that to what is happening on our borders today, because sending children into the cold to freeze to death, sending women and children on leaky boats with no engines at gunpoint to be sent back to turkey, sending people back to the hell of libya in order to make a political point. seriously, is that the european way of life? is that what we stand for? well, not in my name. are the frontline countries facing big problems? yes, they are. but the only reason the people like lukashenko and erdoğan are able to blackmail europe is because the council, for years, has refused to adopt an asylum and migration policy. so it is your responsibility. you are guilty. now today, an ngo, a dutch ngo, has brought before the european court of justice the case of a syrian refugee who was pushed back by the greek authorities and frontex. and it was all documented. and again, it is citizens doing the job of the european commission. and i know where you stand, madam commissioner, you have our full support. but we also know that not everybody in the commission feels that the commission should enforce the rules. madam commissioner, you have our full support to start infringement procedures against all the countries who do the pushbacks.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. pushbacks, ladies and gentlemen, are a violation of international law and must be stopped! the fortress europe is not only cementing itself externally, but is now moving from member state to member state, from border fence to border fence, across the eu - something i never thought possible! on behalf of member states, such as poland, refugees are held at eu-sponsored border posts. or they're getting robbed somewhere. they are beaten, humiliated, starved. under the eyes of frontex, women, children, men are being thrown out to sea, pushed into forests, thrown into rivers. tens of thousands died on the eu's borders. and nothing is going to happen! pushbacks are a human rights capitulation, and they're illegal! no national court in the world - and no polish court - can legalize pushbacks. the crux of any pushback is that refugees are denied the right to apply for asylum in the first place! this will completely abolish the individual right to asylum - it is gone! and we cannot allow that to happen! the peoples of europe have learned in two terrible world wars what it means to have nowhere to run. the fundamental right to asylum is one of the most important values of post-war europe, the great lesson of a century in which millions of people have been abandoned and their lives destroyed. there can be no going back to this barbaric age! i call on the commission to take action not only against mr lukashenko but against any member state which tramples on human rights.
madam president, let’s be practical: pushbacks are a result of failing immigration policies. there are more people trying to get in than we want to let in. there is a gap between rules and reality. if we prohibit pushbacks, because we want to comply with international law, member states will look for other options to contain and restrain immigration. this is the situation now in greece. greece gives asylum seekers a status, so they can travel to germany and the netherlands, and there they can ask for asylum again because they are not in the system. that’s the practice now. it will not help to punish frontex, and it won’t help to punish greece. they are doing the best they can. we simply have to change the way we work. if refugees are able to ask for asylum online outside of europe and go through the immigration process online outside europe, we will be able to separate refugees from the people who are just looking for a better life. we have to change the law or we have to change reality.
madam president, commissioner johansson, when a ruler is a tyrant and a despot over his own people, it is no surprise that he behaves like a rascal and a scoundrel with his nearest border; therefore, the whole neighbourhood has a problem: we are talking about lukashenka and the european union. of course, the instrumental use of human beings as a tool to put pressure on the european union is unacceptable and requires a european response, but the treatment of migrants and asylum seekers must also be european because they are protected by european asylum law and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which protects not only european citizens but anyone in the application of european law, and therefore, whether it is poland, croatia, lithuania, latvia or hungary, every country that is an external border of the european union has an obligation to apply and observe european asylum law, which also includes frontex, as well as the european union's asylum agency or the european union's own fundamental rights agency. that is why forced returns at the border are completely unacceptable, incompatible with european law: that is the case at the most difficult times, in the most difficult situations and at the most vulnerable borders; that is why the commission has the obligation to initiate infringement proceedings against anyone who violates article 9 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, you recently said, in relation to an anti-migrant wall on the union's borders: 'i am not against it, but whether european funds should be used to finance the construction of fences instead of other equally important things is another matter. it is shocking for a member of the european commission to say that she sees the construction of a wall on our borders as a simple accounting problem. commissioner johansson, there are limits to diplomacy. in the current context, the rhetoric you use at that time has a fundamental meaning. you cannot condemn the exploitation of the exiles by the belarusian president and turn a blind eye to the exploitation of the situation by the advocates of militarization and border repression. they will demand more and more security, fewer and fewer rights. you must condemn in the strongest terms and immediately the long list of horrors that are taking place at our borders and initiate without delay infringement proceedings against the countries involved, otherwise we will sink even deeper into disgrace. commissioner johansson, your role, that of the commission, is to be a bulwark against those who spew their hatred and want to make it seem that the other is a danger by repressing him in an abject way. don't give up an inch of our principles and values.
madam president, commissioner, your position on the question of refoulement at the borders is emblematic. it is emblematic of your political objective, let me say political, ideological, which is not to preserve our countries, but to organise their migration flood. a submersion that is not a problem for you, but a project. it is emblematic of your methods, since, as in the soviet union with communism, you use your failures as an excuse to impose ever more europeanism. it is, above all, emblematic of your willingness to flout all the actual principles of law. you are using soft law, that is to say vague declarations, in this case respect for human rights, to allow illegitimate authorities to take coercive measures. they are then subject to mutation in the light of interpretations, judicial or even extrajudicial interpretations, since you subcontract their control to ideologized ngos. a right that fluctuates according to partisan interpretations is not a right. in the matter of migration, your concern is not the right, but a project of demographic globalisation in defiance of the rights of the european peoples.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this important debate. today, i will be presenting the main outcomes of the visit of my colleague, commissioner for crisis management, janez lenarčič, to haiti in september in the aftermath of a 7.2 magnitude earthquake, which hit the country on 14 august. the august earthquake, unfortunately not the first natural disaster to hit haiti, has had severe impact on its people and infrastructure. over 2000 people lost their lives. thousands more were severely injured. at least 50 000 families were left without any form of housing, shelter or accommodation. several hospitals and schools were damaged, water networks, roads and bridges were equally affected. according to the latest figures, over 800 000 people are now in need of urgent aid and relief in the areas most severely affected by the earthquake. in response to the disaster and showing solidarity with haitian people, the eu and its member states have mobilised the entire emergency toolbox in a true team europe spirit. an additional eur 3 million in humanitarian funding were disbursed immediately after the earthquake to address urgent needs. the member states offered in—kind assistance such as food, nutrition, shelter and healthcare equipment. three eu humanitarian air bridge flights carried together 177 tonnes of essential relief items on behalf of our humanitarian partners like ngos and un bodies. last but not least, haiti activated the eu’s civil protection mechanism and through our emergency response coordination centre, we deployed a number of civil protection experts, including french and spanish water purification teams, a luxembourg telecom unit, as well as a field hospital from norway. however, as devastating as the earthquake was, it should be seen as a crisis within a bigger, more structural and multi—layered crisis. haiti suffers from political instability and infighting, gang violence affecting local population and humanitarian aid workers, ineffective police force and judicial system that many see as corrupt, stark inequalities and very poor economic performance. as much as 46 other populations are food insecure, and this number is growing. the situation in haiti is in stark contrast with its neighbour, the dominican republic, which is emerging as a regional leader in the caribbean. two countries share one island but two very different fates. haiti can count on the eu’s humanitarian aid, which going forward will prioritise disaster preparedness, resilience, food security and protection, as well as restoring access to basic services such as hospitals and schools. however, humanitarian aid will not resolve haiti’s main problems, which are structural and deeply rooted. our longer—term response needs to be structured around a humanitarian—developed nexus approach. close cooperation with other development partners will also be crucial, particularly with the dominican republic, the united states and the united nations. in this regard, we welcome the decision by the international community to extend the mandate of the united nations integrated office in haiti to 15 july next year, as well as to review its scope. i look forward very much to hearing your views and opinions.
the s&d group. madam president, in haiti, one disaster after another. earthquakes and tropical storms have devastated that country. in this country, where the few existing infrastructures have been devastated by natural disasters, international ngos remain the only alternative to a non-existent health care system and social network. the political crisis has added to the humanitarian crisis. for months, port-au-prince has been subjected to fire and terror. insecurity has become the rule. armed gangs have been attacking. kidnappings, murders, targeted attacks have increased. quarters were burned. women, young people, children, journalists, activists, and prominent people were massacred. the humanitarian crisis is showing alarming numbers. today, more than four million haitians, mainly women and girls, are in need of urgent aid. our priority must be to respond to humanitarian needs, of course, but also to engage with local partners, civil society, people on the ground to provide effective aid that does not take into account political considerations and that is directed at the people. but this country will not be able to get out of it without a return to the rule of law and without a fight against impunity, which remains the major scourge for the haitian people.
for the greens/efa group madam president, today in haiti, haitians are not living, they are surviving. the earthquake of 14 august, a month after the assassination of president moïse, showed once again the vulnerability of the country. this disaster has left thousands of people suffering, who are already deprived of basic services. the silence of the international community is a disgrace. the rights to security and life, to physical and mental integrity of haitians are constantly violated. every day, haitians are murdered by armed bandits who are indulged by the police and judicial authorities. gangs control the country, the population is trapped, parents keep their children at home for fear of kidnapping. with an average of five kidnappings a day, every haitian is waiting for his turn. women and girls are subjected to gang rape when abducted. since 2018, justice has been on its knees. the international community has been turning a blind eye for so many years. according to civil society, the un office on the ground is more part of the problem than the solution. it is our duty to support civil society and the agreement for a haitian solution to the crisis to bring back a climate of security and democracy. to not act is to be complicit.
madam president, madam commissioner, i want to say again right away that despite the geographical distance, haiti is our neighbour. the great suffering of the haitian people is echoed in the overseas territories of europe close to haiti. once again, the haitian tragedy is at the heart of this house and i would like to thank the european commissioner, mr janez lenarčič, for his commitment to the people of haiti in the immediate aftermath of that terrible earthquake. of course, the european humanitarian mission to the haitian people must continue, but we know that the fight against poverty will not be enough. criminal gangs, sometimes supported by local politicians, are spreading terrible terror and all this violence is hampering the democratic process, preventing much-needed reforms and directly impacting the fragile migration balance in neighbouring overseas regions. for all these reasons, europe must remain a strong partner for the haitian people, but in its negotiations with the haitian authorities, europe must be strong and demanding so that security remains at the centre of non-negotiable priorities.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, as is usual in european summits on the western balkans, the meeting in slovenia on 6 october did not make any significant progress. the european union is, as usual, unthinkingly enlarging to include countries which are far from having integrated the whole of the community acquis and for whom the promotion of our european way of life remains a pipe dream. how is it possible to propose accession to countries with highly complex political and geopolitical situations, such as albania and north macedonia, or kosovo, which, i would remind you, is an entity not recognised as a sovereign state by five member states of the european union? these countries are more known for corruption, trafficking of all kinds and the judicial updates of their leaders. in this whole region of the western balkans, there is only one people who are close to us and share our values. it is the serbian people, a people which, in difficult moments of history, has always chosen the side of democracy and freedom, and which has made franco-serbian friendship a point of honour of its political action at the international level, despite the horror of nato bombings in 1999.
mr president, we are disappointed with the outcome of the western balkans summit, but we also continue to be disappointed by the repeated lack of action on rule of law failings in the region. in serbia, for example, the commission is not just turning a blind eye, but pushing their candidacy forward and upgrading to a country-specific assessment in spite of the clear lack of progress in that state and in spite of the authoritarian actions of its government. just a few weeks ago, politico called hungarian commissioner olivér várhelyi ‘the voldemort of enlargement’, describing his actions as having a long-term damaging impact on the eu-western balkans relationship. in the mean time, media freedom in serbia continues to nosedive. the authorities attempted to discreetly push through a draft law permitting the use of biometric mass surveillance, and there is still a dangerously high level of air pollution caused by coal plants in the region, and when people protest, they are repressed. serbia’s leadership does not want to respect eu values and fundamental rights for citizens. they have made this very clear in their candidacy process. so, once they become a member state, they will just follow the path of the hungarian and polish governments. we do not want the serbian citizens to be second-rung european citizens; we want them to be full european citizens and we can do that if we make our conditions stronger when we talk to the serbian government. with new elections next year in serbia, there is a chance for change. now is also the time for us to engage in dialogue with citizens, civil society and independent media in the region. while this summit may not have provided the hope needed for citizens in these neighbourhood countries, we are now at a crossroads in the eu-western balkans relationship. if eu leaders are really committed to the european perspective in the region, when can we expect the commission to do something about the rule of law and democratic backsliding in these countries?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, this legislative proposal we are voting on today allows for the correction of certain shortcomings in the implementation of the 2009 directive on motor vehicle insurance. the failure to compensate accident victims in the event of an insurer's insolvency had become too problematic to be left unaddressed. the creation of national bodies to compensate victims in the event of the insurer's bankruptcy is an important step forward, as is the clarification of several special cases that have arisen with the evolution of companies. the encouragement of insurance control by member states of vehicles on their territory, without specifically targeting foreign cars, and the publication of the method of calculating insurance premiums seem to be good measures. i would also like to note that the french insurance federation supports this project. however, while i always think it is good to improve the conditions of insurance, it is also important to speed up the compensation of insured persons. i would also like to congratulate the commission on raising the minimum coverage, but the increase in the cost of insurance should not affect the living standards of motorists. in france, since 2018 and the emergence of the yellow vest movement, the middle classes, often rural, who depend on the use of their vehicles are overwhelmed. whether it is the unprecedented increase in the price of petrol, the reduction in speed limits, the development of radar controls or, as here in strasbourg, the future ban on diesel vehicles, the motorist increasingly sees the use of his vehicle as a means of being beaten by the state. our only objective is to make life easier for french and european citizens.
madam president, we all have images in our minds of a major crisis on the border between poland and belarus. an attack of unprecedented brutality and inhumanity, at any rate, is taking place. this is a highly european subject which requires debate in this house. that is why the renew group is obviously proposing the title you have just mentioned, hoping - in trying to have negotiations between the groups - that this title will be unanimously adopted in this house. clearly, the humanitarian question, as well as the question of poland specifically, is a question that must be asked. i call on all our colleagues to vote in favour of this proposal.
mr president, in eastern europe, the belarusian dictatorship is organising a migration crisis and at this very moment, as we speak, poland is facing thousands of people massed at its borders. this is not poland's problem, this is our problem. these people want to enter europe illegally and it is all europe that poland is defending. if we do not help them, we have no future, because those who do not control their borders are inevitably the pawn of the first migrant blackmail and abandon the essential. those who attacked frontex, right here, a few months ago, said they were defending fundamental rights, but it is only our weakness that allows lukashenko, like erdoğan yesterday, to put the thousands of people he is pushing towards europe to destabilise us in danger of death. today, when poland is on the front line of this open attack, the same people are attacking poland as if it were the one to be targeted. can europe come together to meet the challenges that affect us all and preserve its principles? in the face of such a serious crisis, solidarity is not negotiable and it starts with the financing of the infrastructure needed to protect our borders. i'm going now.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, bolloré, who attacks journalists and ngos as soon as they talk about his affairs. darmanin, who is suing philippe poutou for observing that police kill every year in france. the polish far right, which is suing over 50 newspapers for denouncing its abuse of power. vinci, who has brought three lawsuits against the sherpa association for denouncing its use of forced labour on the qatar world cup construction sites. are these big bosses and politicians looking for justice? no, i'm not going. they abuse justice to weaken, intimidate, and stifle voices that speak out against oppression. this trend is deeply worrying, because when the great men of this world pervert justice to silence all criticism, they are muzzling democracy. our duty is to protect all those who dare to challenge them - associations, researchers, trade unions, citizens, journalists - to defend whistleblowers as soon as possible and to prosecute harassers. the report we are about to adopt is a step in the right direction and incorporates many of the proposals for which my group has fought. but i have a message for the commission: we will not let you go, so that you do not turn around and that we finally put an end to these stumbling blocks. justice cannot become the watchdog of power, because democracy is only a fiction when the law is at the service of the powerful.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the slapp trials are part of a strategy, sometimes even desired by governments, to silence the opposition. the tragedy of daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak, which led to the resignation of two socialist prime ministers who were indirectly but strongly involved in these murders, is also worth mentioning. unfortunately, this is still happening, the attacks on freedom are persistent, so we welcome the new rules from the european commission, which will be presented next year. there are still many initiatives by the investigating judiciary, sometimes to defend itself, which attacks journalists and attacks politicians, even crossing the boundary between judicial power, executive power and legislative power. in recent months in italy, for example, the state attorney general's office has demanded one million euros in compensation from the famous journalist alessandro sallusti for alleged damage to his image, because in a book he described how political power groups within the judiciary have managed the careers of italian judges. for the same reason, the editor of the newspaper il riformista, pietro sansonetti, has received several complaints from some magistrates, and so a leader of a major italian left party was published, during an investigation, in the newspapers even his current account, as if to intimidate him. who could have known his bank account? someone who was in institutions. and what is more, the court of auditors condemned a few weeks ago the regional councillors of a region, the valle d'aosta, for voting to rehabilitate the casino in the valley. so that means something's wrong. the investigating magistrates and the audit magistrates must also take account of the protection of the principle of freedom, must defend it and must not interfere with it.
madam president, vice-president jourová, freedom of expression, of the press and pluralism of information are all nucleated in the same article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union because they are consubstantial to the european idea of democracy, and it is a fact that nowhere are freedoms, including freedom of the press, protected, secured or consolidated forever: they are all exposed to the risk of undemocratic regressions, setbacks and, of course, authoritarian governments using civil or criminal lawsuits and tricky quarrels to try to intimidate and muzzle those who exercise the fundamental right of free journalism and criticism of governments. that is why the european parliament has a duty to demand from the commission a legislative initiative which establishes common standards and guarantees for press freedom, which has as its corollary information pluralism and is only credible where there is information pluralism, and which protects critical journalism with governments against the exercise of intimidating grievances which have the clear intention of curbing and muzzling the free exercise of information pluralism. this legislation is the result of the work done by this european parliament taking seriously the european idea of democracy which requires the formation of a free and informed public opinion, which is also, of course, able to ensure through the verification of data its own self-defence against the spread of information hoaxes and intoxication, but it is essential to preserve freedom of the press and information pluralism, and that is why this resolution concludes with the commission's demand for european legislation.
madam president, we definitely all agree that media freedom and pluralism are the cornerstones of democracy, not less than the rule of law or respect for human rights. and it’s absolutely unacceptable if those who hold a position of power or have great financial resources use their power against those who want to speak out. in most cases, strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapps) are a direct breach of the freedom of expression and information, and is especially worrying to see cases where slapps are funded by state budgets. we have to be aware that this particular method of silencing opponents – slapps – is only one out of many others which governments can use to get rid of criticism and to kill pluralism. yes, also in the european union. in some member states, like my home country, estonia, we have a wonderful practice of publishing an annual report of the security police, where you can find the names of activists whose views and activities are claimed to be dangerous or even undermine the constitutional order. in many cases, in most cases, these claims were never proved by court decisions. and conversely, those who find their names in this report have to go to court and prove that these accusations are false, and this reverse burden of proof is in fact the same as the case of slapps: you have to spend time and money to prove you are not guilty – in fact, to protect the same freedom of expression and pluralism. i did it 10 years ago and i won. but many of those who were mentioned by the security police during the past two and a half decades never became active again. they’re scared. i strongly believe that in this house we have to pay attention and to fight all possible means to silence people and create the only right narrative to follow.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the co-rapporteurs and thank them for the collective work we have done on this text, because the subject we are dealing with, that of the bailout lawsuits, is a serious one. since the paris agreement, in the last six years, a thousand and five people have been killed because they were defending the earth. and at cop26, 60 journalists from 34 different countries called on states to protect them from unfair prosecution. we owe this to them. daphne caruana galizia was the subject of 47 prosecutions when she was murdered. in france, valérie murat was heavily prosecuted for denouncing the excessive use of pesticides. long sherpa is being sued by vinci for filing a complaint against forced labour on the world cup construction sites in qatar, while france libertés is being sued by veolia for daring to defend the right to water. examples are numerous: defenders of the public interest, rights or the earth who are subject to unfair prosecution. we must put an end to these shameful practices and our proposal here is to give europe a tool to protect those who protect us.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, tax evaders are like bats, they hide in the shadows. for google, amazon or bnp, it is "live happily, live in hiding". and it is to get them out of their hole that we have been fighting for years for transparency in the tax arrangements of the multinationals. when the first vote was held in 2017, i was not in this chamber, but in front of parliament with my colleagues from oxfam: we had organised a punch-up action. we had high expectations and it was to lead the fight against tax evasion that i became involved in politics. but let's be clear, they were far from satisfied. so, of course, this is a first victory won thanks to the hard fight of my colleagues in civil society. but i'll tell you the truth, i'm tired of people taking small steps. why should parliament give in before it has fought the battle to the end? this agreement leaves 80 percent of the states out. you call that transparency? for most of the notorious tax havens - switzerland, the bahamas, the cayman islands and so many others - we have nothing, nada, walou, not a single piece of information. so the tax evasion schemes have a bright future ahead of them. and it is not surprising when we know that france has once again - and this time in an obvious way - modelled its position on that of the medef to empty the text. but i say to the tax evaders, don't get excited too soon, the fight is on. we will organise as many actions as necessary in this parliament and outside so that you finally give the money back.
mr president, madam commissioner, it has been a long road, indeed, it was mentioned before me it took several years to reach this result. after years of deadlock, especially in the council, the adoption of this directive is a major victory for tax transparency and fairness. this is a first step and we should welcome it. the adoption of this text is a signal that europe is acting, strengthening its system against tax evasion and tax fraud by making it compulsory for the world's largest multinationals to publish information on their taxation country by country and therefore on their activities, country by country. this agreement is balanced, it will allow everyone to have access to data that is comparable, while guaranteeing the competitiveness of our companies for whom this provision was a concern, especially at international level, by protecting the most sensitive information to prevent their competitors from having access to data that they could exploit to their detriment. so, of course, it shows us that this mechanism must now be extended to the world level, but the european union is setting the tone and i am glad that our parliament has played its full part in pushing this issue forward. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has already taken action on this. thank you mr boyer, i noted in your speech and i am glad that you want the scheme to be extended to all the countries of the world so that we can finally have transparency on the activities of multinational companies all over the world, including the most notorious tax havens. but i remember that during the negotiations on this text, the media revealed that france had literally copied and pasted its position on that of medef and had thus weakened the negotiations at european level since the red lines drawn up by medef were found word for word in the final text. so i have a fairly simple question: is it a coincidence that these are exactly the same flaws that we find in the final text? and if i wanted to be a little provocative, did the medef also write your position and your text tonight?
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you for your very constructive and moderate question. no one dictates my position and i must say that i have reiterated the concern of companies not to see data released to the public that their global competitors could exploit. and this concern will naturally disappear, once everyone is on an equal footing and all the companies in the world make data on their activities, country by country, available to everyone. by definition, that concern will disappear.
mr president, this directive is a good firm, first step away from unhealthy tax competition and tax avoidance towards tax transparency and tax justice. and let’s remember, this was stuck in the council for five long years. of course, this legislation is not perfect. parliament wanted a global disaggregation of tax information, but the best the council could agree on was that eu countries and black- and grey-listed tax havens be included. but, the directive covers 80% of tax avoidance by multinationals within the eu. finally, we will expose tax havens and tax dodgers. this directive is a very important accompaniment to the oecd deal on a global minimum effective tax rate for multinationals. so, we are on the right track, and we will use the review clause in this outcome to the full in four years to secure global disaggregation and many other things.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs on this directive, and especially mr ibán garcía del blanco and mrs evelyn regner, who have worked hard and well to get this agreement. i would also like to call for the role of parliament, because this directive has been blocked for many years in the council, where some governments did not want any publicity, where the governments which usually block any progress in tax matters, any progress in transparency, as i say, have been blocking this directive for years. i think that we must, on this occasion, vindicate the work of parliament, the constant work of the rapporteurs and the alternative rapporteurs on this report, to finally unlock a key directive which will allow us to have real-time information on the profits and on the taxes that large companies pay and do not pay in europe and which also joins the agreement to set that minimum corporate tax rate of 15%, that international agreement which allows us to have a much more solidary and much more sustainable tax framework.
mr president, transparency can work wonders. it exposes what cannot be explained and shows what can and should be explained differently. transparency, however, cannot come only from whistleblowers and investigative journalists, as was the case with the panama papers and the pandora papers. the law we are discussing today is therefore welcome. it provides radical structural transparency with regard to companies: where they do business, where they make a profit and whether or not they pay tax by country. it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission. thanks to this bill, we're one big step closer to a fair economy. the social democrats have a part to play in this. i would like to thank in particular my colleagues evelyn regner and ibán garcía del blanco, but also the portuguese government, for making this law possible and making it a reality. we may have had to add water to the wine, but this only motivates us to continue fighting for a fair economy.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate you on your ambition and on the work you are doing. that is why i hope that this report of ours, which has been waiting for five years, and in fact it is not us who are waiting, but the citizens, because, after all, that money that is taken to tax havens impoverishes millions of citizens; it makes a few rich and impoverishes many. and yes, this country-by-country reporting does. it's a first step. we solve the transparency in terms of profit: where the profit is made, there the tax is paid. obviously, it has been said, and i maintain, we have more steps to take, but i think that now, if we manage to get it done, we will solve a lot of the inequity that now exists in the internal market of the european union in terms of how big companies, multinationals, are taxed in relation to smes. the small ones pay fairly, the big ones don't. i would therefore like to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in this report and ask you, commissioner, to support it going forward. we still have steps to take. there are still tax havens that are not yet addressed by this report.
madam president, reports on the disclosure of information on corporate and branch income tax could be an important tool for detecting profit transfer mechanisms such as shell companies, preferential tax regimes for patents and transfer pricing agreements, or unfair tax competition practices between legal systems. the proposal which parliament is confirming falls far short of what is desirable and necessary in terms of public scrutiny, which is essential in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, both at the level of the companies concerned and in terms of the information available. the european union is once again showing itself to be open to the interests of the major economic groups, safeguarding profit-transfer mechanisms which deprive countries every year of resources essential to their economic and social development. taxation of profits where they are generated, control of capital movements or the eradication of tax havens are among the measures needed to eradicate tax evasion and avoidance.
member of the commission. – madam president, i listened attentively to the honourable members’ interventions. the overwhelming support for this new policy provides comfort that the european union is moving in the right direction. to those who think it is not ambitious enough, i want to stress the decisive breakthrough that this policy represents. it is unique on the global scene. we also need to keep in mind the competitiveness of our companies and the need to keep a sound setting for private investment. also, i keep in mind that the problems this directive is trying to solve are undeniably a moving target. for instance, in rome a few days ago, the leaders of the world’s 20 major economies approved a global agreement that will see the profits of large businesses taxed at least 15% in the oecd inclusive framework on base erosion and profit shifting. of course, there is still a long way to implement the framework with model rules and multilateral instruments to be developed. i believe that this reporting remains entirely relevant, but going step by step in this matter sounds like a good approach. the commission will report back to you in a few years on the effectiveness of this directive. we will assess whether it is ambitious enough and, yes, we will also take into account the global evolution of the system on corporate tax transparency.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. time is an important factor, public country-by-country reporting cannot be implemented early enough. we're all sick and tired of all these scandals of luxleaks, panama, paradise, pandora, cum-ex. this is a real system we have to fight. this directive will enable us as a public to see for the first time where tax fraud is taking place. and for the first time, we will no longer be relying on these great investigative journalists or whistleblowers, but that, ladies and gentlemen, is a huge step forward. in four years' time there will be a review of the effectiveness of public cbcr and then, ladies and gentlemen, the journey will continue. of course, public country-by-country reporting must continue. the worldwide breakdown of the corporate data is our goal. and that's a good thing. because right now, in times of pandemic, we need transparency more than ever. i remind you that big corporations are getting massive coronavirus bailouts that we, the taxpayers, are paying for. and so we all have a right to know where this tax money has gone and whether in return the big corporations have also paid their fair share of taxes. a society only works if everyone actually follows the rules of the game. only then can we speak of justice. in the end, of course, it is a question of just reconstruction. it is a question of a just society in which everyone contributes to it in a fair way. and public country-by-country reporting is a milestone on the road to that fairness that we all want.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on thursday 11 november 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. in general, but in particular in the light of the recovery from the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus, i support a stronger response to tax fraud and tax evasion. to recover economically, all countries need adequate income. that is why i think it is important that everyone pays taxes where they have a real economic activity. this requires a stable and balanced, yet competitive, tax policy. a system that ensures that no one can evade paying the tax. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in this respect, we must specifically target the large multinational companies, which are masters of tax optimisation through their practices. i fully support the aim of the directive, which is for everyone to pay taxes and to do so in a transparent way. however, i do not think it is acceptable that the legislative procedure has again been conducted by reinterpreting what is required by the eu treaties. i consider that the directive at issue constitutes tax legislation, and this view has been confirmed by the council's legal service. taxation is a matter for national competence and can be decided by unanimity at eu level. the current procedure for adopting the directive is a circumvention of that, which i reject. i think it is important to emphasise once again that instead of evading competence and undermining the sovereignty of the member states, we should strive to forge a strong union, while respecting the treaties.
in writing. – tax evasion by large enterprises is a major global problem. not only does this affect domestic public finances, but it also causes social inequality and injustice in the markets. in recent years, it has been revealed that the silicon valley giants had taken advantage of tax loopholes and avoided usd 100 billion in taxes. moreover, the eu loses almost eur 50-70 billion euros in tax revenues each year for the same reason. i am pleased that we have managed to complete the work we started in 2016 in order to promote country-by-country tax reporting in the european union. however, this is only the beginning, and leaves room for improvement. for instance, i would have liked to have seen more emphasis put on the reporting requirements of non-eu countries, especially those on black and grey lists. in essence, we aim to create a level playing field for companies, not to complicate the work of companies that already prudently comply with the tax rules set. nevertheless, i am confident that these specific shortcomings will be corrected in the future. in addition, the european parliament is firm about the fact that we need a new and revised directive. the most important thing is to take the first step now.
in writing. – in deciding on my position regarding the adoption of the country-by-country reporting (cbcr) directive, i believed it was necessary to take three main considerations into account. firstly, the genuine need to fight tax evasion and avoidance and to enable public scrutiny over tax matters makes transparency in this area imperative, certainly between tax authorities. the extent to which information should be made publicly available is, however, a different and delicate matter. legitimate questions arise about whether the release of such information would be of detriment to european undertakings by undermining their competitiveness. secondly, the principle of fair tax competition between states needs to be upheld. cbcr should not be considered as another step towards the equalisation of tax rates across the eu, which will only work to the advantage of the larger, higher-spending member states. and thirdly, the current parameters on tax competences within the eu should be maintained, with tax matters remaining subject to the national, not the eu, competence. this measure has been adopted on a qualified majority basis, not with unanimity, which makes its legitimacy shaky. to be honest, on all three points, it would have been wiser to have found a better balance than what has been presented in cbcr.
the newswoman. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by answering the question of why we are talking about the european education area and what we expect from it. this space has actually been here for hundreds of years. universities have made a significant contribution to its development. while tertiary education has had an international dimension from the outset, primary and secondary education is strongly rooted in national and regional contexts. we are aware that the european union has only a coordinating and supporting role in the field of education policy. but we all know that education is the key to success in life. we know how important it is for each individual and for society as a whole, and that is why we want to exploit the potential that the european union has: in mobility, in investment, in the enormous wealth of experience and knowledge and in excellent research. the main reason for building a common learning area is to create new concrete opportunities for learning and employment. we expect the european education area to strengthen european cohesion, promote economic and social prosperity and strengthen the eu's international competitiveness. we emphasise the role of programmes such as erasmus+ and the european solidarity corps, which enable mobility and the sharing of good practice with european added value for thousands of pupils, teachers and volunteers. the european education area should finally meet citizens' expectations of the transferability of education systems across member states. we know it's not easy, but our goal is to achieve automatic recognition of educational outcomes, including transcripts, high school diplomas and university degrees. we are aware of the different approaches of the commission and the council and therefore propose the development of a common strategy involving the eu institutions, the member states, including the regions, and civil society. if we are to turn an ambitious vision into reality, we must find agreement on common priorities, objectives and benchmarks. the most important of these should be the quality of education, i.e. the proportion of pupils with poor performance should be less than 10% and the proportion of pupils leaving school early should be less than 5%. there is a consensus on the principle of inclusion, that is, the achievement of quality education for all. no one should be left behind, and everyone has talents that need to be valued. the student is the focus of our attention, and the key players are the teachers. the european parliament therefore calls for improvements in the working conditions of teachers and supports their pedagogical autonomy. the european education area is a very suitable environment for the development of concrete tools such as the digital competence framework, the eu education framework, citizenship education, the creation of european centres of excellence in vocational education or the european online university platform. the european parliament also proposes concrete measures to improve language skills and promote multilingualism. member states should aim to ensure that all pupils have a command of at least two other eu official languages, with an emphasis on english, by the end of the second stage. the union should finally educate its citizens about eu issues and provide them with information about itself, about what the eu really is. that is why we call for the integration of the european dimension in education, from school curricula to teacher training. we welcome the initiative of the european commission to establish a teachers' academy and propose that it be named after jan amos komenský, the teacher of nations. ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion concludes our year's work together on this report. i personally feel very good about it and i want to thank especially all the shadow reporters and advisors who contributed to its quality. i look forward to our discussion today and to our future collaboration.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a number of opinions. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this house a year ago, president sassoli paid tribute to french professor samuel paty, who was beheaded by an islamist terrorist for teaching his pupils about freedom of expression. it was the mourning of all european citizens gathered around the figure of a teacher who embodied what we hold most precious: the transmission of knowledge and the ability to think for oneself. what we are doing through the european education area is an act of resistance to those who would like to undermine the foundations of our civilization. and like any act of resilience, it will strengthen us and lead us to put the teacher back in the center of the village. our report stresses that education should no longer be seen as an expense but as an investment in the future. the financial and symbolic upgrading of the status of the teacher must be a shared priority. building a common pedagogical culture based on best practice is the key to becoming a true educational powerhouse. the intensification of the mobility of teachers and future teachers and the european teacher academies are opening up radically new perspectives, to which is added the accelerator effect linked to the digital appropriation by teachers during the pandemic. everything is converging to make this european education area an area of values and educational excellence. and i have a dream that i share with you in closing: let us join forces in all teacher training pathways, however diverse they may be, to integrate in the 27 member states a module of openness to the best european educational practices. this 'europe' module will empower all teachers to equip our children to resist and seize the best of our changing world.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs šojdrová, mrs cicurel, all the fictitious rapporteurs, all the members of the committee on culture and education and the committee on employment and social affairs for their commitment to this subject. we need this european education area so much because when one in five young europeans is unable to read correctly, do math or understand science, when one in ten young people leave school prematurely, when one in four secondary school pupils do not use a computer at school and when one in five pupils in the european union as a whole do not have sufficient digital skills, it does not only create difficult personal circumstances, it affects our society as a whole. in addition, the covid-19 health crisis has created additional barriers for many learners, despite commendable efforts by teachers, parents and governments. and that is why, together with the member states and the commission, we have responded: our vision for the future of education and training in the european union is a common, holistic one, comprising 40 concrete actions and initiatives to ensure that europeans have access to better education in the european education area, a modern, inclusive and quality education. we have worked closely with the member states to reach a council resolution to strengthen the governance structure, which will ensure better information flow and better coordination between the technical and policy levels. the new structure will also strengthen synergies with other relevant policy areas such as research, innovation, digital, social policy, employment, youth or culture, as well as with the european union's funding instruments. and that's not all: seven new working groups have just been launched to also contribute to the european union's cooperation process in the field of education and training, by providing member states and stakeholders with a forum for the exchange of experience and good practice. this may sound ambitious, and it is: our common vision for the future of the sector is very ambitious. the year 2021 was the launch of the european education area. when we linked the many ongoing actions to the planned plan, we were able to exchange information on progress throughout the year over the months, and this will continue until the publication of the first report on the state of play of the european education area by the end of 2022. and i'm already looking forward to co-hosting with you in 2023 a mid-term event to discuss with stakeholders and civil society what has been achieved and the next steps to be taken. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again the rapporteur, mrs šojdrová, the parliament, the committee on culture and education for being our trusted partner in completing the european education area and also for the important messages you are presenting to us today in your report on the european education area. i will listen to you very carefully too, as the rapporteur has said.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report by michaela šojdrová on the common european educational area is a very good and balanced report. we can only benefit as a european union by promoting the mutual recognition of qualifications, not only in the vocational and higher education sectors but also in the school sector. we want to make qualifications more equivalent in the eu. students who have completed their education and training in the eu should be able to continue their education in all eu countries without further extensive examinations. we need not a uniform system, but equal educational standards within the european union. we do not want to do away with subsidiarity. education is and remains a matter for the member states. but where it makes sense, we must coordinate at european level. and for genuine freedom of movement of persons we must finally begin to recognize mutually equivalent qualifications. at the gothenburg summit in 2017, member states and the commission set themselves the ambitious goal of creating a common european education area by 2025. it is important that adequate resources are also provided for the development and creation, but above all for the implementation of a comprehensive european education area.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you, commissioner, for coming to this important debate. education is a fundamental right to which all people should have access throughout their lives. education is the main driver of equal opportunities for people and the european union must strive to achieve this full equality of opportunity. the european education area must undoubtedly aim to be the guarantor of quality education and equal opportunities in the union. we must therefore work without delay to implement this project by 2025, as planned, without further delay. we must ensure as soon as possible that the european union has a comprehensive approach to ensuring quality, inclusive, accessible and affordable education for all. the european education area must be the tool to ensure that we leave no one behind. the european union needs trained citizens with the skills and abilities to develop a full working and social life. and education must ensure that they have all the tools to do that. we also need to value the work of teachers and improve their working conditions. the european education area is a great opportunity to spread the european values of tolerance, respect and freedom. the report we are debating and voting on today says that we must work to reduce the gender gap in education, to fight against any form of bullying and against all forms of discrimination. education has always been and will be the foundation for building more sustainable, more tolerant and more inclusive societies. in addition, at this time of economic, green and digital transition, the european union must rethink its role in training and education. and the conference on the future of europe is a good exercise to reflect on our competences. i do not want to end my speech without thanking michaela and the other rapporteurs for the work and collaboration that has enabled us to have a clear and forceful text that expresses our position very well.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what is the best weapon against intolerance and extremism? education! what is the best way to combat false information and disinformation? education ! and what do the citizens who are taking part in the conference on the future of europe ask of us? a truly european-wide education to give everyone equal opportunities. we have already made great strides in integrating our education systems, but it is time to go further to achieve a genuine european education area where every young person, every learner, every teacher can enjoy the same opportunities and recognition of qualifications and competences throughout the european union. this is precisely the purpose of this excellent report. the bologna process has allowed student mobility and almost full recognition of higher education diplomas, and now the same must be done for apprentices. they must benefit fully from the opportunities offered by the european education area and we are clearly calling in this report for the creation of a european status for apprentices. it also seems crucial to me that a place should be made for multilingualism. if we want pupils, students and apprentices to be mobile and to benefit from the training best suited to them throughout europe, it is imperative to strengthen language learning, and ideally, multilingualism. this is how, through mobility for all, language learning and the convergence of our education systems, europe will perform better and the sense of belonging to the european union will grow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when the european union talks to us about organizing a common educational area, we have some reason to be worried. first, because the responsibility of the public authorities is not, in the first place, to meet the problems of education, but of instruction. this is particularly true in my own country, france, where the school system has difficulty in teaching basic skills such as reading, writing and arithmetic. i would add that we believe that education is the responsibility of the family and the nation. we are also concerned that no action by the european union is without an ideological background. and indeed, this case is not exempt from the rule. under the pretext of education, the union wants to set up the ideological formatting of our countries' school systems. how else can we understand the priorities of raising awareness of climate change, fighting populism, denouncing misinformation, i.e. justifying censorship? you want to make this educational space a vehicle for your imperial vision. what you want to do is not to set up an education system, but a programme to re-educate the population.
mr president, this report is frightening because it is the brains of the younger generations that are at stake. yes, education is paramount, which is why school should remain a sanctuary and not a blank page of your delusions. indeed, depression and suicide attempts among young people have skyrocketed as a result of the health crisis. at the same time, our schools are suffering from all the ills of our societies: declining standards, increasingly violent harassment, declining authority, the rise of islamogauchism, woke ideology, cancelled culture and sometimes the murder of teachers like samuel paty, guilty of having taught freedom of expression. meanwhile, asia is methodically organizing a war of the brains. what is your answer? raising awareness of global warming, which adds anxiety to the anxiety of young people, gender-neutral recreation classes or the hysterical fight against populism. what are you thinking? is this the priority of education? will this give you a taste for life and the joy of learning and training? you're prophets of doom and you want the youth to follow you. you want a free, smart, happy school? make individuals capable of thinking before making sheep to obey you. only then will europe become that civilization of wealth, passion and intellectual flourishing of a thousand years ago.
mr president, on 28 october last the council of europe launched a campaign co-financed by the european union to promote the islamic veil in europe, with the slogan: 'beauty is in diversity as freedom is in the hijab'. "freedom is in the hijab": you give legitimacy to an instrument of women's oppression, the symbol of their subjugation in islamic countries. turkey and azerbaijan are members of the council of europe, but they are not examples of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. and behind this despicable campaign is the muslim brotherhood, which is recognized as a terrorist group by egypt and austria. the council of europe is being used to convey messages and ideas that are not at all relevant to our civilization. let's stop funding islamism and islamists with taxpayer money. let us stop funding those who want to keep women in an inferior status.
mr president, the trade and technology council has been sold to us with the usual praise for the union's transatlantic relationship with the united states. so it seems that the unfair practices and humiliations of recent years have not taught you a lesson. here are two from a long list. in 2014, after an unacceptable blackmail by the us judiciary, general electric took over alstom's energy business. he's stealing patents, reneging on his promises, and leaving thousands of employees stranded. what a wonderful partnership! a few weeks ago, a military alliance with australia was forged behind the backs of the european union at the cost of breaking a very big contract with france. what a wonderful cooperation! let's not get carried away! how long are we going to be the turkeys in the stuffing? it's time to understand that the united states is not our friend, but a power with its own interests. let us stop being naive and protect our jobs, our industries and our know-how. let's have the courage of independence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, €500 billion by 2030: the global cloud computing market is a major challenge for france and for europe. but this market is only going one way: to the united states. only 5% of european data is stored in europe. even the french government favors google and microsoft. military and health data are managed by these companies while french players such as ovh and scaleway offer sovereign solutions. the negotiations on the dma (the future legislation on digital markets) should allow europe to regain control over certain practices of google, amazon and facebook. but how will the european commission be able to check and inspect these companies outside europe? the americans, on the other hand, require service providers to disclose to the authorities any information, whether it is inside the united states or on the other side of the world. in this transatlantic forum, you must be the voice of the truly european companies that employ engineers in europe. do not just listen to the digital europe lobby, because the korean samsung, the chinese huawei, facebook, google and amazon are funding this lobby. mr chao-muller, the head of the digital europe lobby, does not represent our interests.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank my colleagues for their strong support on this crucial report for the health of our citizens. following the votes that have just taken place, i would like to request that the serious cross-border threats to health report be referred back to the committee responsible for interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 59(4).
mr. president, the baby weighs 485 grams, and right now because of the abortion law, i have to stay in bed. they'll wait for him to die and if not i can wait for septicemia. this is the horror. my life is in danger and i have to wait. other this is the message that isabella, a 30-year-old polish woman, sent to her mother. isabella had to wait and she died. she died because the doctors refused to abort her when they knew that the fetus she was carrying was malformed. isabella died because of a new inhumane law that de facto prohibits abortion. and because of this law, tens of thousands of polish women resort to clandestine abortions, buy abortion pills themselves or have to go abroad, putting their lives and health at risk. this is where the far-right policies that inspire so many reactionaries and inspire some of our presidential candidates are leading. this fight is vital. to prevent this situation is to refuse to help someone in danger. we must act, colleagues! and as the polish say, not another one! it's been a year.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the freedom of movement of persons and the freedom of movement of workers are the daily lives of millions of us. while these freedoms define the european project, their associated rights are neglected. the fight for unemployment, health care and pensions is still part of the combatant's journey. exploitation and the endangerment of workers, such as massive fraud via the subsidiary mailboxes, are still collateral damage to the status of posted worker. in the face of such a picture, the commission's reluctance to act is not well understood. it is urgent to ensure the portability of human and workers' rights within the union. digitisation is an opportunity, provided that data and the institutions entitled to access it are not mixed; provided that each data collected has a specific purpose and access; provided that its operation in drawers is strictly controlled. the commission can no longer wait to propose a european tool that protects the social rights and privacy of european workers.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, dear stella, our renew europe political group is concerned about the evolution of the covid crisis in europe. we are working with you on the regulation on serious cross-border threats, but the urgency is today and now. the number of infections and the number of patients in hospitals are of concern, but also the heterogeneity of the reactions of the member states. we are armed against the virus, thanks to vaccination, and yet again we are in disarray in the political choices about social distancing measures, whether or not to make vaccination passes or vaccines mandatory. the freedom of movement within schengen is again in question. how do you intend to get the necessary coordination in place quickly? i've heard of your efforts. when and how do you bring these issues up in ministerial meetings? and what does your scientific advisory board propose? we've made a spectacular leap forward with vaccination. science has demonstrated its ability to find solutions. but, again, we will have to learn together how to restore public confidence and protect people from the misinformation that leads to vaccine hesitation. finally, you have put in place the effective tool of group purchases. we regularly discuss the value of extending them to other health products. do you plan to activate them rapidly for curative and preventive treatments that are gradually authorised by the ema?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, marine le pen, candidate for president of the french republic, was the first to denounce the disastrous management of the covid pandemic by both the european union and president macron and the french government. the lockdowns and self-isolation generated by anxiety-inducing communication have blocked access to care for the most vulnerable people in france. faced with this fifth wave, according to who, 500,000 people could die from covid in europe by february. this recovery is also due to a certain decrease in vaccine immunity in subjects who received their second injection more than six months ago. the response to this new wave is not based on a strengthening of care, but on coercive and liberticidal measures that bring the french department of guadeloupe to the unprecedented crisis that we are experiencing today. in pasteur's country, we still do not have an antiviral drug in the form of tablets, capable of blocking the replication of the virus at the moment of infectious contact. when will governments and the european union anticipate and take all the necessary measures to rapidly vaccinate and develop an antiviral drug to block the virus from replicating?
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, dear stella, dear dolors, linea søgaard-lidell was the negotiator on behalf of the renew group, but she is not available for this plenary. i congratulate her and the whole team of rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done. today, as you have said, and i repeat it, we are laying the foundations together for a true europe of health and medicine. a europe that can guarantee all citizens equitable access to controlled, affordable and available medicines. ensuring the health and safety of the patient must be our priority, while remaining attentive to the sustainability of health systems. the implementation of the pharmaceutical strategy will need to involve strong legislative measures. we are prepared on four main pillars. the first is to ensure access to affordable and safe medicines through the revision of legislation on access to medicines. these laws are outdated, unsuitable for preventing and managing tensions, and not just in times of crisis. before the pandemic, too many patients faced these unbearable situations. we in the european parliament will ensure that this problem is dealt with as a whole at all levels of the production chain, with the needs of the patient as the top priority. secondly, to restore our pharmaceutical independence by repatriating part of the production of medicines to europe. you propose a structured dialogue between industry and the authorities. you're right, we need public-private partnerships. we can also support these relocations with state aid or other incentives. we must not, however, sacrifice our environmental and social requirements. thirdly, boost research and development of innovative medicines. the amendments to the legislation on paediatric and orphan medicines are very welcome. these laws have for too long slowed down the development of innovative medicines, for example in the field of cancer. research and development of new technology medicines must also be a priority for the european union under horizon 2020. the covid-19 crisis has shown us how important it is to encourage research policies. finally, the fourth point is that we must deal with the question of the price of medicines. closer cooperation on pricing, payment processing and drug bundling should allow us to transform the trial of covid vaccine bundling, which has been a very successful one. i hope that the commission will propose a revision of the directive on the transparency of pricing measures. all these reforms would allow us to start the creation of a virtuous circle, from joint evaluation by hta technology, as you mentioned, to effective controls, transparency of price-setting procedures and, perhaps later, reimbursement, production and reserves. there are many challenges ahead, but we are stronger together and together we will succeed.
madam president, at the beginning of the covid crisis, europeans were shocked to discover that 80% of the active ingredients in our medicines were manufactured in china or india. we were used to the loss of industrial, technological and agricultural sovereignty on your part. we are experiencing the loss of pharmaceutical sovereignty, abandoning our health to foreign and distant powers, and therefore to the vagaries of diplomacy. far from being a shock, the european union has now come up with a single solution: foreign vaccines, the conditions for purchasing which were at least opaque and whose cost is exorbitant enough to add a thousand dollars of profits per second to the bank accounts of laboratories. the european union has not proposed any alternative vaccine from honest and transparent clinical trials or even treatments. how can we talk about strategy if there is no beginning of ambition? it is urgent that we end this addiction, which primarily affects anti-infective drugs, anticancer drugs, emergency resuscitation drugs, cardiology drugs or anaesthetics. first, let us relocate, or rather help european nations relocate, the vital production units. secondly, we must not leave the decisionmaking process for the production of medicines to the market alone. to do this, the european union must take action and give the pharmaceutical industry objectives. if the market is the only decider, we will have plenty of anti-wrinkle creams and erectile dysfunction treatments. but too little investment in cancer, alzheimer's or orphan diseases. finally, the european medicines agency must become an independent counter-expertise body, so as not to leave the role of judge or party or, worse, the role of shadow legislator to the laboratories. the cahuzac case in france had revealed the harmful power of laboratories and their influence on political life. in the name of democracy, but also in the name of the health of all europeans, it is essential to take back control of this vital industry, in order to put it at the exclusive service of health and scientific progress.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in france more than 90% of guadeloupeans and martiniquans are contaminated by chlordecone, which is the cause of the world's worst prostate cancer. as with sargassum and access to running water, marine le pen has been the one to raise the alarm on this issue, while president macron and the government have ignored this health drama, generating mistrust among the population and contributing to the anger we are experiencing today in guadeloupe. in addition to environmental decontamination, concrete measures must be taken, including the introduction of aid for the conversion of contaminated land and the modernisation and monitoring of drinking water production sites. under article 168 tfeu, the european commission must take measures to help the west indians who need the support of europe and the french public authorities who have done absolutely nothing so far.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to ratify a trilogue agreement on the new cap. there are many of us in this room who are measuring the work that has been necessary to achieve this result and are preparing to approve it, in a responsible way, despite the limitations that each of us inevitably finds in the final compromise, but to approve it anyway. some prefer to step outside the game and stand by as spectators, commenting on the imperfections of this agreement. well, that's too bad. for my part, i welcome the improved balance between the cap's economic and environmental ambitions. i welcome the innovations of this reform - eco-regime, operational programmes, mandatory definition of the active farmer. i welcome the strong demand we are making for reciprocal standards in trade. finally, i welcome the fact that we have not forgotten agriculture, which is the basis of our food and is carried out by women and men who are much in demand and whom we must support. the european agricultural policy will of course continue to evolve. it is not intended to ensure the survival of farmers, which it still often does, but to promote the serene and prosperous exercise of their profession and the dynamism of our rural territories and to offer positive prospects to young people who will take up the torch. these are the conditions for this sector to make an effective contribution to the sustainability of our economy and our planet. agriculture cannot do without the cap, and neither can europe, despite what some say. we all worked as best we could. so now, for the farmers and the citizens, let's vote and move forward.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mitigating climate change, combating the collapse of biodiversity, preserving the health of consumers, restoring the quality of vital resources such as water and air, achieving food sovereignty, significantly improving farmers' incomes and reviving the momentum of agricultural settlement are the salutary ambitions of the green deal, the foundation of this mandate, for the commission and for the european parliament. if we really want to prepare for the future of future generations, we can no longer delay decisions, actions, measures to meet this goal, and we have already started with the validation of strategies for biodiversity and 'from the farm to the fork'. agriculture is a highly strategic economic sector in relation to these issues. on the one hand, because it is at the heart of these issues, but also because it enjoys strong public policy support. but nothing will be possible without reinventing the central public policies to achieve these objectives, such as the common agricultural policy, which mobilises almost 40% of the total budget of the european union for the next seven years. to reject this copy of the cap today is to take seriously the warnings of scientists who are calling for urgent, decisive and immediate action. to reject this copy of the cap today is to give ourselves the chance to write a new one that is up to the challenges of the moment. in terms of responsibility, the cap we will draft in 2021 cannot hide the ambitious objectives of the green deal strategies, nor can it ignore the lessons learned from the successive reports of the european court of auditors. in this way, the cap we draft in 2021 will give new hope to the european project, to future generations and to farmers across europe. so, my dear colleagues, let us be coherent, let us be visionary, let us not tremble at the moment. let us not squander this great hope and let us stand together, with courage and boldness, at the rendezvous of history.
mr president, victor hugo said: 'it is a sad thing to think that nature speaks and mankind does not listen'. because nature speaks: floods, droughts, mega-fires, pandemics, endangered species by the hundreds of thousands... but the human race persists, year after year, in the same mistakes. our agricultural model is the main factor in the collapse of biodiversity. it is a major contributor to climate change. it is the root of the misery and the disappearance of millions of farmers and trivializes unbearable animal suffering. but today you propose to spend 270 billion - a third of the european budget - to continue in this impasse, in contradiction to all your fine speeches on the european green deal. this vote would commit us until 2027, when we have only a few months to act. it would be a new betrayal of all european citizens who are concerned about their future. let's not make that mistake. let us reject this reform and finally achieve the necessary bifurcation of our agricultural model.
in writing. the new common agricultural policy we are voting on today will respond to all the current challenges facing european agriculture: it will support european farmers by enabling them to earn a decent income, it will encourage young people to settle, it will give new value to agricultural jobs, it will ensure quality agricultural production and, above all, it will give farmers the means to guarantee the food sovereignty of the european union. the cap is also a new instrument to support farmers in the transitions and challenges they face. with its new functioning and objectives, the cap will be able to support farms in an efficient way, as close as possible to their needs. french and breton farmers will benefit fully from this, and i look forward to it! the agreement also devotes an unprecedented share of the cap budget to the protection of the environment and biodiversity. the new common agricultural policy is therefore proof that competitiveness, employment, quality and high environmental objectives can be combined.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, mr president, a new wave of covid is hitting our continent and let me first, perhaps, express my deep solidarity with the european people who are experiencing this new drama. i do not forget the european solidarity when my country and its neighbours in southern europe were in the middle of this wave and very affected. the european union must reaffirm this solidarity in the coming weeks and months with the countries most affected. i think that is the will of this house and of our institutions as a whole, but it must be reaffirmed. vaccination, the health pass, the recovery plan: europe has been able to live up to the challenge. however, perhaps two weeks of inaction, madam president, would be enough to undo the clear successes achieved in recent months. for my group, the subject of vaccination has four issues. like my colleague manfred weber, i will start with solutions. first, the vaccination coverage. you published a graph on social media earlier today, madam president, which shows the correlation between vaccination and deaths. let's launch a communication campaign at the european commission level for vaccination, against fake news. that seems important to me. on the covid certificate, mr president, let's harmonize our rules. as regards the third dose and the duration of vaccination, we must avoid divergences between member states which will be just as much a hindrance to freedom of movement. on treatments, madam president, let us buy together now the new treatments authorised by the european medicines agency that have the potential to reduce transmission, hospitalizations and deaths in addition to vaccination. the group purchase of vaccines has been a great success in europe. let's do the same for treatments. i shall end with the economic question. perhaps we should evaluate the tools we put in place a few months ago. some funds are being mobilised, others need to be implemented more quickly. some recovery plans are delayed. here too, we may need to look at mechanisms that allow us to move faster and be more efficient. madam president, mr president, i will always find my political group in any case in favour of scientific progress, free movement and job creation. but we must continue to work together. europeans have put their trust in europe and now we must also be effective in the face of this fifth wave. renew also asks, madam president - as you know, i have already spoken to you about this - that this subject, among other things, be discussed and put on the agenda of the european parliament in the december plenary session, in a new format, a question and answer session with you on the occasion of this mid-term. i think that meps are committed to the renewal of parliamentary democracy, and we are committed to the continuation of this debate, at least in the house. i will end very quickly on the question of the rule of law. without denying what has been done by the commission in the context of article 7, the infringement procedures before the court, and without forgetting the discussions in the council, mr charles, let me say that, for my political group, the answer is still insufficient. madam president, your services sent a letter saying that corruption was widespread in hungary and that the independence of the judiciary in poland was not guaranteed; these are systematic problems which require decisions and explanations. i will stop there, mr president. i have wasted my time, but the renew group is very clear about rejecting the stimulus plans and activating the conditionality mechanism. i think we owe this to the poles and hungarians who are fighting every day for their freedom and against corruption in those countries.
mr president, this is not a migration crisis taking place at the border between belarus and europe. it is a deliberate attempt of manipulation orchestrated by alexander lukashenko to try to destabilize and divide us. lukashenko is not just a dictator who oppresses his people and illegally stays in power after rigged elections. he's a highwayman. a few months ago, he hijacked a european plane between two european capitals to kidnap a young blogger who had found refuge in europe; let's not forget that. since then, he's been running the tour operators of shame. by offering them a hypothetical future in europe, he attracted thousands of iraqis who could not locate minsk on a map. he has provided them with visas, chartered flights and has hurried them to the borders of our union, preventing them from returning. he certainly did not act alone. we have managed to remain united and in solidarity with the countries that were taking the lead in this hybrid attack and that we cannot leave alone. let us remember what lukashenko said a few months ago: i will send you migrants, then i will send you drugs, then i will send you the mafia. but the mafia is him and his accomplices in this enterprise of unheard-of cynicism. we have no reason to give in to this blackmailer. i don't have one. we must learn to guard against the hybrid attacks of this low-cost war without military means, which is nevertheless a war waged by authoritarian regimes against europe. with these diets, all bets are off. manipulation of information, cyberattack, underground funding of political accomplices and now human trafficking. we will respond to these attacks in accordance with the law, because these are our values, but we will respond because it is our right.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the situation of tension on the border between the european union and belarus is regrettable. the european union and the schengen system are a common asset and we have a duty to protect them. but this requires agreement among the member states and the eu to provide all member states with the resources needed to protect their borders effectively. the eu cannot differentiate between member states, it cannot apply double standards, as it does with hungary and poland. we hungarians have been protecting the southern border against illegal immigrants for six years now. for the sake of the security of the citizens of europe, we therefore fully understand the problem in poland and assure the polish people of their solidarity. the union has often called for solidarity with the member states, but now it is most urgent that the poles receive effective help to protect the external border as soon as possible. but the eu also needs to change its flawed migration policy and work to ensure that those who are besieging the eu's borders can return home as soon as possible and receive help and a vision for the future in their home countries.
madam president, the exploitation of the desperation of human beings at the external borders of the european union as the winter general approaches is not a migration crisis, it is a political challenge posed by a tyrant in our neighbourhood who takes advantage of the glaring lack of unity in the response and exploits the vulnerability of both migrants and the european union itself. it is never enough to say that if we pool our diplomatic and defence capabilities, we can talk about you to you to those who practice bullying, whether it is russia or any of its satellites, as is the case with lukashenka in belarus, and we never repeat enough that we must confront those who blackmail by taking advantage of this lack of unity and pooling of our defence and diplomatic capabilities. we must also reiterate, of course, that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and full respect for the right of asylum and all the laws governing migration at european level are important, that all the member states of the european union must be required to do so even in the most difficult situations, but that the task will not be complete until we are able to put in place european legislation that sanctions - that not only prevents, but sanctions - the instrumentalization of human beings at the external borders of the european union.
dear prime minister, minister, member of the commission, colleagues, today we are being tested as to whether we can remain united, uphold our values and overcome crises. we must use all means at our disposal to counter attacks at our borders and to impose effective sanctions, including financial sanctions, on those who use migrants, and in this case tourists, for political ends and to compensate the european union for the costs incurred. the dictators lukashenko and putin, of course, only value strength. if we are to survive and become stronger, we must all speak with one voice in times of crisis. we cannot allow individual states to negotiate with a dictatorship or to impose sanctions in order to protect their own economic interests. they have to hit where it hurts the most. belavia and all airlines with economic links to this company should be placed on the sanctions list. on the other hand, we cannot forget about the migrants, as i said, in this case tourists, and the countries that are currently defending the borders of the european union. no one should be left alone.
madam president, we are discussing a situation at the european borders today that continues to be extremely serious. this aggressive pressure where migrants are used as weapons continues to threaten the eu, our way of life, our values, our solidarity. i want to thank poland for standing its ground. i also want to emphasise the solidarity this crisis has created among european countries. it is of the utmost importance to keep this solidarity strong. attacking our solidarity is the centre of gravity of the operation controlled by putin and implemented by his sidekick, lukashenko. it is vital not to accept and talk to dictators as equals. by doing that, the eu loses control over the narrative, and that is unacceptable.
madam president, the debate we are having today brings together several issues which, if they are not resolutely taken up by a majority, will endanger the values of the european union. first, there is the need to help those who are trapped in a humanitarian crisis at the union's borders. the first european funds have been paid to help those present, but agencies and ngos must be able to act immediately in the restricted area. the first flights from minsk were organised at the end of the summer. almost three months of human misery camouflaged under the label of "hybrid war". this is unacceptable. i think we should help to bring the belarusian authorities before an international court for human trafficking. and that's my second point. we should not let our guard down, thinking that the threat level has dropped. the sanctions regime must be maintained and strengthened so that lukashenko does not imagine for one more minute that he is sufficiently protected by his russian sponsor. finally, let us not be lax with regard to the polish authorities, who are probably counting on this crisis to throw a cloud over the rule of law and to take advantage of it to further disengage from collective solidarity. they preferred to build a wall. we say that first of all it is necessary to allow people to receive help and to have the possibility to apply for asylum. let's be clear, the situation is not resolved, let's not jump to the resurgent covid-19 in europe.
madam president! many of us focus exclusively on the humanitarian drama on the belarus-poland or belarus-eu border. this border conflict is very much in lukashenko's favor, because it distracts attention from the crimes he is committing against the citizens of belarus. and there are more political prisoners in belarus today than in russia, and no european leader at any meeting can turn a blind eye to the crimes of the criminal lukashenka regime. you can't talk either about the situation on the border or about terror, violation of fundamental rights inside belarus, because it's not either or, it's the sum, the sum of the victims of lukashenko supported by putin. the victims are citizens of belarus or other countries, brought to this very border. and i ask: is there anyone who still does not understand that only by jointly observing the common european law, that only this european community can stop these cruel madmen?
madam president, the biggest attempt to destabilise europe since the cold war, nothing more! that is how the polish prime minister described the presence of a few hundred exiles dying of hunger and cold at his border. have we fallen so low into shame that the aspirations of women, children and men for a better life threaten us? by raising fears about the exiles, by talking about them as a problem, as a threat, we are giving dark dictators the sinister and cynical idea of using these human beings as weapons. it is by building walls, by putting up barbed wire, by applying a state of emergency to our borders that we expose the fragility of our democracies and our values to those who are fighting them. everywhere, by governments of all kinds, the mistreatment of exiles by the state is sinking us into the abyss. fortunately, citizens are mobilizing and re-humanizing, providing support and warmth in the polish swamps, in the alpine snows, on the roads of exile. i say to the member states: your inhumanity is not our inhumanity. your barricaded, inhuman societies are not ours. we cannot fight dictatorships or the far right by applying their ideas. we fight them by loudly reaffirming our values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a few years' time, when history will judge our time, it will certainly classify it as a dark period during which the european union has been the crucible of all the treachery, of all the renunciations in the face of the deadly danger of the invasion of migration. yes, a mortal danger, because this is a war of civilisation that you are allowing to be imported into our countries by imposing this insane immigration, by seeking to legalise it by all means, as this surreal report shows. in this asymmetrical war, migrants are a weapon. i had seen this before the covid outbreak, on the border between greece and turkey, where i had been. i saw the crowds of migrants exploited by erdoğan, taking advantage of the inherent weakness of the european union to blackmail it. today, the same images are coming from the polish border. despite this threat, the majority here continue to attack this member state and a few others for their sovereign choices. and this commission is doing nothing to assist them and protect our external border, quite the contrary. as in all wars, there are also betrayals. the refusal of mrs von der leyen to finance a wall on the polish border is a betrayal. treason, funding globalist ngos that organize legal or illegal immigration, not hesitating to work with human traffickers. the statements by mrs johansson that she wants to create new legal pathways for migrants are a betrayal. the unconditional development aid to countries that send us their flows of nationals and refuse to take back their illegals is treason. finally, this report is a betrayal, creating new channels of immigration. but the peoples of the nations of europe do not want to die. they see through your lies no, the vast majority of migrants are not researchers. so, optimistically, i know their will prevails. the determination of the poles to resist is a wonderful example of this. your suicidal policies are definitely doomed.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is a reflection of the many contradictions of the european union. the official discourse of the european union, which calls for a strengthening of european border controls, is in contradiction with a €65 million cut in the budget of the frontex agency compared to the last proposal. the events in poland should remind us that the frontex budget is our only bulwark against illegal immigration and that further migration crises are to be expected with new hybrid threats. everyone's safety must come first. secondly, the increase of €20 million in the asylum and migration fund to resettle afghan refugees on european soil demonstrates brussels' will to maintain a legal migration route between afghanistan and the european union. more generally, i am concerned to see that parliament's role is increasingly limited to a mere right to be informed because of the use of article 122 tfeu, thus creating new mechanisms and bodies. too many instruments have been put in place in the form of external assigned revenue, and therefore outside the budgetary procedure, such as the nextgenerationeu programme, the facility for refugees in turkey or the covid-19 vaccine contracts. finally, with regard to the two amending budgets voted this week, i would like to put the commission on its shoulders with regard to the monthly cash transfers which do not allow any traceability of the funds allocated to more than 1.8 million refugees in turkey, even though the european court of auditors has ruled, and i quote, that humanitarian aid projects, especially those relating to cash aid, could be made more efficient. i would also like to point out the cynicism of the commission in giving doses of astrazeneca vaccines to non-european populations who are often young, when the same vaccine is medically not recommended for young europeans.
on behalf of the left group. the european parliament, mr president, with a hard effort and because it was united, has achieved significant improvements in the draft budget presented by the council with too many, unjustifiably severe cuts. but we must strive for even better results in the 2023 budget and you must understand, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, that we cannot achieve the objectives you set, not the most that the european parliament is asking for, with a budget of 1% of european gdp. we need a stronger budget with stronger own resources, as the european parliament is calling for unitedly from the left to the parliamentary centre-right. we are pleased with the improvements we have made, but we must also see that the council, with the help of the commission, which has not once again been the 'honest broker' as it calls itself, has limited our objectives. we asked for 80 million for eu4health and we got 51. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same goes for life: four times less than we were asking for. the commission is also proposing to increase the budget for the european union's external action to eur 20 million. we are therefore satisfied with what we have achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. president, i have to ask you... officer, please. first of all, i would like to congratulate the negotiators of the ep and the council for agreeing on the 22 eu budget in time. it is particularly important to me that there was an agreement from the outset on spending on regional development and the common agricultural policy and that the level of resources agreed was 22. 22 is expected to be a record year for payments, with €150 billion to be paid to member states over two years from both the 14 and 20 timeframes, and additional support from the recovery fund. we agree that it is essential to support and help member states' economies in such a difficult period, but further delay in the approval of the hungarian and polish recovery plans will upset the balance of the eu's internal market between those who have already received aid and those who have not yet. this will undermine the guarantee of a level playing field. the commission is failing in its primary task of protecting this principle. we cannot accept deliberate discrimination between hungarian and polish economic operators for political reasons.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a budget which helps growth, recovery, increased competitiveness and productivity and which helps us to overcome the challenges ahead. parliament has succeeded in timely ways in increasing the sums for the health of citizens, in fighting the pandemic, in strengthening the programmes for small and mediumsized enterprises, in strengthening the competitiveness and productivity that we have been talking about, without ever forgetting territorial, economic and social cohesion, that is to say, internal solidarity within the european union, but also external solidarity within the european union and development aid. humanitarian aid is well represented in this 2022 budget. the member states now have sufficient resources at their disposal and they need to be well used, well managed. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i hope they will be able to meet the challenges and demands of the european citizens.
mr president, the budget is one of the most important tools that we have to serve the citizens. at local level, at regional level, at national and at european level, the budget is the expression of our political priorities. with the budget of the european union, we basically tell the people in which direction we intend to take the european union next year, in the year 2022. with this budget, we are going to strengthen the union to better cope with the pandemic. we are going to invest in health. we are going to make the european union more innovative by investing in research and innovation. we are going to do more for young people. we have strengthened the erasmus programme because we know that international exchange improves your chances to find a better job not only abroad, but also upon your return, at home. we are also strengthening small and medium—sized enterprises. we are making the european union ready for the future. we also have available the money to pay the bills, and we are strengthening the european public prosecutor’s office and the european court of auditors, because the union will spend more money than ever in the next years and we need to tackle fraud, irregularities and corruption wherever it occurs. congratulations to the rapporteurs, thank you and well done!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this year's budget smells of victory, of having been able to release an additional 1.4 billion euro for vaccination in the most deprived countries. but it wasn't easy. as in previous years, the member states were forced to negotiate with their national budgets and demand cuts in health, environmental protection and development aid. i would therefore like to point out that the member states are also obliged to defend the interests of all europeans. this is not the only job of meps. so it's urgent to change the software. and this appeal is also addressed to the commission, commissioner. my dear colleagues, this year marks another victory. and next year, it's renew's turn. you can be sure that we will negotiate even more firmly for a europe that respects its commitments and puts the necessary resources into them. i really want to thank all the rapporteurs and the teams involved in these negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the budget agreement is good news for a europe in the grip of the pandemic. the conciliation procedure was no different from the routine of previous years - a dramatic break-up on friday, an agreement on the last day of the conciliation, i.e. monday. it's business as usual. what is new is in the content of this budget. true, this year the advance payments for the reconstruction plan have already been made to many countries. the question mark is over the two troublemakers, poland and hungary, but the 2022 budget is indeed the first to have a solid nextgenerationeu feed. the greater the value of this report, the greater the appreciation for our rapporteurs, carlo and damiano, and for all the other participants in this conciliation. there's nothing more to say in a minute.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we often wonder whether the citizens of the european union really understand what the budget is all about. and basically, what's important to us is what message is being sent to the people in a very difficult situation. because the truth is, a lot of people don't really think about the complexities of the budget, they just ask themselves very simple questions: is there going to be money or not? will there be a budget or not? did they reach an agreement or not? and that is the most important message that the european parliament together with the council have reached an agreement with the strong assistance of the commission. that's the most important thing. and the second question that always comes up is, what's the money for? will there be money for health care? will there be money for border protection? these are the questions that people ask. today we can say that we have done everything to answer these questions in the affirmative and we will see how it will look in the coming years.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, members of the house! i would like to thank you again for the debate today, for your commitment, and i would also like to congratulate you warmly on the outcome of the negotiations. i now turn to the house. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council. but i would also like to take this opportunity to ask you to think about it. the 2022 budget is adopted before the 2023 budget is negotiated. and if we look at things, this almost 500 million is a considerable sum, but it represents only 0.3% of the total budget. and with these 500 million, more than 20 budget lines have been strengthened. but if you look at the individual numbers, we're at the reinforcements in the small single-digit percentage range. we have a significant change in one area, and that is development aid, which is over 13%, and at the same time the strengthening of the solidarity fund. what i ask you to consider is whether we should not, in the negotiations for next year, consider together what is really urgently needed in terms of adjustments to the budget in the context of the seven-year budget in the light of current developments, and that we should really try to concentrate the resources in one or two areas and achieve a real effect there, because we need to do that, but not - i say quite frankly - increase the 20 or 25 budget lines, where, of course, everyone is, but where the question must also be asked how effective these increases are in the end. i believe we could achieve much more together if we respond to those needs and requirements which emerge as potential requirements for 2023 in the course of the 2023 budget negotiations in the autumn of next year. i believe that this would create real european added value and might be worth considering. when i look at one of my predecessors - janusz lewandowski - i assume you had similar thoughts in your time. it's a reflection. once again, my congratulations! i think we've accomplished a lot together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but once again, thank you very much for your joint commitment, including to the council, for all these efforts. but let us think about how perhaps budget planning and budget decision-making with the corresponding consequences could indeed be more successful or effective in the future - one has to say!
the chairman of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for the exchange of views today. i think we are the only ones who think that the agreement of the three european institutions is always a good message. and it has shown that we are united in our commitment to create a better community for the benefit of all citizens of the european union. the agreement on the 2022 budget is a balanced compromise that allows the union to adequately finance its various priorities and actions, while increasing the resources for strategic programmes and leaving room for manoeuvre in times of unforeseen circumstances or unforeseen needs. virtually all of you in the debate today have stressed the importance of this consensus and also that it has come at the right time. so let me conclude by wishing this budget well in the european parliament's vote tomorrow.
president budg. in conclusion, mr president, the agreement on the 2022 budget is, on the whole, a good agreement. it addresses some of the challenges that we will face in the coming years, and certainly in 2022. it also meets the expectations expressed by parliament last year. it has already been pointed out on several occasions that an additional eur 500 million has been raised. i have listened carefully to commissioner hahn's suggestion that we should perhaps think more carefully about next year. but in any case, the programmes in which the money is now going are programmes with a high added value: horizon europe, health and others (support for smes in the single market programme, for example). let me conclude and first of all thank all the colleagues and their collaborators who made these negotiations a success for the parliament. i was the first witness to see that they all worked very hard and that they were really up to the task. certainly my big and sincere congratulations to the two rapporteurs, damian and karlo. karlo and damian, two young guys and this is a 60+ man who says this who have been working very hard, who have been very eager to learn, who listened to me sometimes, to the other more seasoned colleagues, but who at the end of the day did a fantastic job as negotiators. i was really impressed and i'm not afraid to say that in public. thank you very much. my sincere congratulations and that's it for me tonight.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, next week the twelfth ministerial conference of the world trade organization takes place in geneva. mc12 comes at a critical moment: it has the potential to put the wto on the right reform path, while delivering good results in areas like trade and health, climate action, agriculture, and sustainable fishing. the eu is leading efforts from the front. we published a roadmap for wto reform earlier this year, and we have worked tirelessly to build coalitions in support of our goals since then. i appreciate the consistent support of honourable members on this strategic approach. it is in the strong interest of the eu that we begin to deliver on this agenda. however, a week from mc12, the situation is both complex and challenging. meaningful results are still attainable, with landing zones on some multilateral files emerging, notably on trade and health, and on the launch of a process for wto reform. in this context, and with very little time left until mc12, all multilateral issues will be brought to the ministerial itself for resolution. first, on trade and health, the wto needs to come up with a credible contribution for tackling the covid-19 pandemic. the expected outcome is a ministerial declaration, including an action plan for future pandemics by the next ministerial conference – mc13. we are seeking commitments on transparency and monitoring, export restrictions, trade facilitation and cooperation with other international organisations. with regard to vaccines, it is quite remarkable how far we have come. just one year after the first vaccine was proven to be effective, we will have 12.2 billion doses being produced by the end of the year. and we can always do more. in the area of intellectual property, our goal is unchanged: ramping up production and increasing the access of developing countries to vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics. but we want a real solution. this is why we continue to engage with the proponents of a waiver on certain ip protections in response to the pandemic. ip is only one piece in a big jigsaw. collaboration with industry and investment in production capacity plays a much bigger part. but we are determined to ensure that ip also plays its part, by enhancing and simplifying the use of trips in the interests of all. specifically, we are advocating for a targeted waiver on compulsory licences. this solution could facilitate production of vaccines and other essential health products, which are key for regions such as africa, while preserving incentives for innovation and investment. the protection of patents is crucial in this respect, as they are essential for countries that want to attract investment and to have transfer of technology, in order to develop their own production capacity. we still hope to have consensus in this crucial matter in the days ahead, and we will maintain strong engagement to that end. but for these efforts to be successful we need all parties to focus on a meaningful solution that works in the real world. on fisheries subsidies, the remaining time is very short and the gaps in positions are wide. discussions on special and differentiated treatment remain very difficult, with members pushing to have even more concessions beyond the very significant ones they already received in the revision. the eu continues to advocate for a robust agreement that will deliver on the sustainability objectives of these negotiations. we are ready to contribute with new commitments, such as a global ban on subsidies for fishing in parts of the high seas that are not properly regulated. moving to agriculture. agriculture is critical for mc12’s success. the main challenge is to manage unrealistic requests and expectations by many members, which is combined with defensive positions of other major players. we believe that a meaningful outcome, centred on transparency and work programmes, is within reach, paving the way for an agreement in mc13 to reduce trade-distorting support and to have a permanent solution on public stockholding. finally, on the eu priority of wider wto reform, we are aiming at setting up a working group on institutional improvements, which should make recommendations for mc13. when it comes to plurilateral outcomes, we expect a conclusion on services domestic regulation. this would be the first wto agreement on services in more than 20 years, representing a significant success for the multilateral system. the oecd estimates this could save eur 140 billion in costs, giving another welcome boost to global recovery. the ministerial will also note good progress on investment facilitation and e-commerce. the eu remains committed to working on trade and gender as well as on the medium, micro and small and medium-sized enterprises tracks. finally on environment and climate, the eu is playing a leading role bringing those issues forward. we are proposing a paragraph in the ministerial declaration to underline the importance of wto work in this area, and plurilateral statements on environmental sustainability, plastics pollution and fossil fuel subsidies reform. madam president, honourable members, the upcoming ministerial conference can have a strong bearing on the future of the multilateral trading system. we very much appreciate your strong support and involvement. the eu is leading from the front, but we need others to step up to the plate. now is the time for the wto membership to display courage, vision and vitality.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, ‘no time to die’ is the title of the latest famous movie with james bond, but i guess it’s also describing the situation of the world trade organization (wto). no time to die, because we have a vital interest in a rules-based multilateral trading system – we as europeans, and i guess the developing world as well – and therefore we have to deliver. this 12th ministerial conference (mc12) is really a critical ministerial conference. if we are not able to demonstrate that we can have some significant deliverables in this mc12, i guess a lot of people worldwide will be thinking that is the end of the multilateral system. therefore, we have to concentrate really on the negotiation of unsustainable fish subsidies. after 20 years, it should be possible to find a result, and i am really hopeful that this will be one of the key elements of mc12 because this is the integration of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) into the trade regime, and this is also an important signal. secondly, on trade and health. nobody would understand if mc12 is not delivering something on trade and health. no export restrictions, we do a reduction of tariffs, and yes, let’s increase the production and let’s also discuss the question of intellectual property rights on a temporary waiver. thirdly, we need also modernisation of the organisation. it is not possible that we have another five years of standstill. we need new ways of procedure, we need new ways also for the dispute settlement mechanism. therefore, we need to push and this is my plea to all of you here. let’s really try to adopt a resolution with a broad majority so that we can support the commission, support all the forces which are trying to get a meaningful result, so please vote in favour of the resolution.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr vice-president, reinforced by the shock of covid-19, the debate on the future of global trade is rightly becoming more important, and in the run-up to the 12th ministerial conference, our objectives must be clear: to defend a renewed multilateral system, to restore confidence in the institution and to cooperate with our partners. first, to defend a renewed multilateral system. supporting fair and sustainable trade, guaranteeing fair competition between member states - that is the role of the wto. and, having been stuck in the wto for far too long, each member must play its full part in giving the institution a new impetus. the european union and you, mr vice-president, have always been on the same page and we must continue to be on the same page, with a high level of demand and without naivety. secondly, to restore confidence in the institution. now more than ever, we need rules and stability. this is important to build the confidence of all actors. in addition, our citizens expect coherent action, particularly on health. and without concrete results, without a strong wto, international trade risks falling into anarchy. finally, empower all states to reach agreements on fisheries, agriculture and health. the united states is back at the negotiating table, but offers too little. china and india are turning a deaf ear to the need for reforms, while multilateralism must regain its full meaning and effectiveness. so let us europeans continue to redouble our efforts to achieve a globalisation that is regulated, fair and sustainable.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the situation in bosnia and herzegovina is a glaring demonstration of the european union's diplomatic failures. neighbourhood policy, the process of political accession for the western balkans: none of this has enabled europe to be an effective actor in bosnia. for 30 years we have known that the country is on a compromise in which all foreign powers are involved. organized crime, balkan migration routes that flood trieste, human trafficking... the list of dangers on our doorstep is long. turkey, the us, albania... everyone is trying to play their part on the backs of the two republics of bosnia. why would they do the opposite, anyway? they know that brussels is silent about the provocations of albin kurti in kosovo and edi rama in albania. unfortunately, everything is contributing to a real implosion in bosnia at the moment. the sectarian actions of the us representative and the anti-serb bias of the western statements have obviously exacerbated the tensions in the country. there is even talk that brussels and washington are working on sanctions against the representative of the bosnian serbs. if, as i fear, this were to happen, can we still believe that we will improve the situation and gain legitimacy and efficiency by imitating american policy everywhere? who can believe for a second that sanctions will bring about the beginning of a solution in the countries concerned? no one did. the european union is a humiliated actor in bosnia. only a policy of emancipation from the united states and a return to a fair and balanced relationship with serbia can, i hope, prevent the situation from burning.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what do the citizens of the western balkans and bosnia-herzegovina want? that should be our priority. many in this house who are holding talks and conferences with citizens of bosnia and herzegovina know this: they want european integration, and the balkan barometer shows that, year after year. that is why i would like to share with the people of bosnia-herzegovina that it is after 10 p.m. here in the european parliament and we are concerned about the balkans, the western balkans, we are concerned about bosnia-herzegovina. this message is important to me. it is also important for me to say to all the fanatics, all the ideologues, and especially to mr dodik: the people want european integration. they have confidence in european integration. they do not trust the russian leadership, they do not trust the chinese leadership, they do not trust the turkish leadership either. they have confidence in european integration. that's what we're here for. irrational conflicts based on national, ethnic or even religious affiliation must be a thing of the past, they are not european and will not serve the western balkans, they will not serve bosnia-herzegovina, they have put europe on the right track and they will do so with the western balkans.
madam president, members of the house, commissioner, minister! bosnia and herzegovina is burning. this is one of the worst or worst political crises since the end of the war in 1995. my colleagues in the european parliament and i have been warning for a long time about the rising tensions in the country. the country needs to reform its constitutional and electoral legislation, especially in light of the upcoming elections next year. these must be fair and free, all, regardless of their ethical background, must have equal rights. any unilateral actions that threaten the territorial sovereignty, the integrity of the state must be stopped immediately. so is the rhetoric of responsible politicians, milorad dodik, who divide the country. the union is the country's largest aid donor, but european taxpayers will not support policies that actively destroy territorial integrity forever. the union must use all the instruments at its disposal, including sanctions, to preserve the territorial integrity, unity and peace of the state. and only by taking swift and concrete action will we restore credibility, trust and stop the mass exodus of the young generation from the country.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all, thank you for today’s debate and a clear message. in the present context it is key to ensure unity and consistent messages to all the parties. as president von der leyen stated during her recent visit, bosnia and herzegovina has a clear goal of eu accession. we hope that political leaders will rapidly start to work together to meet all 14 key priorities in the commission opinion in the interests of all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. it is only through dialogue that progress can be made, so it is of utmost importance to return to institutions. this is a message that commissioner várhelyi will give political leaders during his visit. the good functioning of state institutions is key for bosnia and herzegovina to draw maximum benefits from eu funds and programmes, including our economic investment plan. we will continue all efforts to help facilitate dialogue and to refocus on the reforms to help the country on its path towards eu accession in line with expectations of its people. and once again, we reiterate our unequivocal commitment for bosnia and herzegovina’s eu accession as a single, united and sovereign country on its way towards eu integration.
the chairman of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to reiterate our great and shared concern at the political situation in bosnia and herzegovina. we expect politicians in bosnia and herzegovina to refrain in the future from words and actions that only contribute to fuelling the political crisis. we call on them instead to commit themselves to promoting reconciliation and reform in the country through decisive and concrete action. revisionism, in particular the minimisation or even denial of genocide, and the glorification of war criminals are fundamentally contrary to the values of the european union and are incompatible with membership of the european union. i would like to reiterate our firm and long-standing commitment to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina as a single, united and sovereign state. ladies and gentlemen, some of you have mentioned the importance of the debate on the western balkans with the european union. it is precisely because of the importance of the stability of this region for the european union as a whole that the slovenian presidency has decided that this will be one of the priorities of our presidency. on 6 october, we therefore organised the eu-western balkans summit, which also saw the adoption of the eu-western balkans joint declaration, signed by all eu member states and all western balkan countries. the declaration confirms a clear message to the region regarding the european perspective and commitment to the enlargement process and the expectations for continued respect for european values and the implementation of reforms in the western balkan countries. it stresses the need for good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation. the declaration further focuses on the socio-economic recovery of the region. the implementation of the economic and investment plan for the western balkans, which will mobilise around eur 30 billion for the region over the next seven years, is of particular importance. progress in establishing a common regional market and implementing a green agenda to align the region with the european union's infrastructure, energy and transport corridors is also included. the declaration also highlights the positive outlook for young people and the commitment to further cooperation on the pandemic. cooperation between the european union and the western balkans must also be reflected in a comprehensive alignment of the european union's foreign policy positions, and we therefore expect further deepening of cooperation on the common foreign and security policy. and there is much work to be done here in bosnia and herzegovina. and as continuity is key, we are pleased that the region's high-level placement on the eu agenda has been agreed in the form of regular eu summits in the western balkans. the next one is planned for 2022 during the czech presidency.
on the decisions of several committees to open interinstitutional negotiations under rule 71 (1) of the rules of procedure, announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 22 november 2021:i have received a request from the ppe group and other members reaching at least the middle threshold to vote under rule 71 (2) on the decision of the employment committee to open negotiations on the proposal for a directive on an appropriate minimum wage in the european union. the vote will take place tomorrow in the first ballot from 9.30 a.m. to 10.45 a.m. on the other decision to open interinstitutional negotiations, i have not received any request for a vote in parliament from members or from one or more political groups that would at least reach the middle threshold. the committee may therefore enter into negotiations on the basis of this report. * * * * * * * * * before we get to the debate and in advance of today's vote, which will begin at 12.30 p.m., i would like to give the floor to mr pierre larrouturou, who has asked to speak on his reports on draft amending budgets no 5/2021 and no 6/2021. i give the floor to mr larrouturou for four minutes.
the rapporteur. mr president, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and good afternoon, mr vice-president of the european commission. the european parliament will approve these two supplementary budgets today. budget 5, which provides humanitarian aid for syrian refugees living in turkey, and budget 6, which will provide for the purchase of 200 million doses of vaccine to help countries in the south fight the covid-19 pandemic. parliament approves these two budgets, of course, but we are very, very worried about the way things are going to go, because to finance these two budgets we have had to scrape all the funds from the drawers. there is no room for manoeuvre for the next six years of the multiannual framework negotiated just a year ago. in financing these two budgets, we have exhausted all the resources available to deal with unexpected crises. but these two crises were to be expected. we knew, a year ago, that there were two million syrian refugees that needed help. we knew a year ago that there was a virus that was killing hundreds of thousands of people and that we needed to fund vaccine doses. we knew that and we didn't anticipate it. when we see what is happening in kabul, in taiwan and elsewhere, are we sure that in the next six years there will be no need for aid for new refugees? when we see the new wave of epidemics that is hitting all our countries, are we sure that for six years there will be no need to finance new doses of vaccine? when we see the worsening climate change, are we sure that we will not need massive aid to help this or that population hit by this or that disaster? here too, it is very worrying that we have exhausted all the room for manoeuvre for seven years from the first year. it's not serious. the european parliament therefore urges the council of heads of state and the commission to resume negotiations immediately to raise the ceiling of heading 6 and to move forward on new own resources. we all know that negotiations are due to begin shortly to enable the creation of the social climate fund announced by the commission in july. we all know that the funding for the stimulus package is completely out of the question. parliament therefore solemnly and urgently asks the council to negotiate the creation of new own resources which will increase our capacity to act without taxing mr and mrs tout-le-monde. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the climate emergency. last summer, 700 people died in canada from the heat wave. there were 200 deaths in belgium, germany, because of floods. to avoid the chaos that is coming, we must avoid the blabbering. it is time to declare war on climate change and poverty. yes, to declare war! it is the only war that will not cause any casualties and that will prevent millions of deaths. it is the only war that can unite the peoples instead of opposing them. but the nerve of war is money. and if you don't have the money, you're stuck in the blabla. and here's the bad news, as i said, we don't have the money right now. if inflation is taken into account, the 2022 budget will be smaller than the 2019 budget. and to finance supplementary budgets 5 and 6, we have just destroyed all the room for manoeuvre available for the next six years. so if we don't get new resources out very quickly, in a year or two, when there's another crisis -- refugee crisis, climate crisis, health crisis -- every time we're looking for money, we're going to have to say, "i'm sorry". sorry, but europe is dry. sorry, we don't have the money. is that what we want? my friends, the solutions exist. one year ago, on 13 november, parliament approved a report - i'll give it back to you, mr vice-president - proposing solutions to finance a real climate plan. five solutions have been put forward, and among them the most effective solution - one of the most effective in volume and the most mature - is the taxation of speculation, which could bring in up to 57 billion a year! and three weeks later, in the multiannual budget package, the european commission added ten lines, validated our analysis and stated that it was desirable to reach an agreement on the financial transaction tax before the end of 2022. a year ago, the european commission stated: 'it is desirable to reach an agreement on the ftt before the end of 2022'. a year later, the financial markets are at an all-time high, but the negotiation is blocked by france, alas! my friends, what are we going to tell our children? we leave you a world that is uninhabitable because we did not have the courage to tax speculation? we let the climate go to hell because we didn't want to stand up to a few billionaires? our children will hate us, and they'll be right. my friends, let's wake up!
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, blablabla, victory by knockout for the lobbies and greenwashing. this is how cop 26, which i attended, ended in a big flop, with a final image of unacceptable cynicism: the irresponsible people of this world who congratulate themselves on burying the planet with a suicidal trajectory of over 2.4 degrees. no wonder we have come to this when we see the ubiquity of the lobbies in the cop. imagine the scenery: rooms full of logos, including that of j.p. morgan, which invested $317 billion in fossil fuels, or unilever, the world's third largest plastic polluter. and among the participants, it's even worse: 503 representatives of the accredited fossil fuel industries, more than the eight countries most affected by climate change combined. that's all i'm saying. this cop was, in the end, no longer a conference of the parties, but a conference of the polluters. but as you know, the lobbyists would be nothing without their accomplices. firstly, countries like france, which are working behind the scenes to promote nuclear and gas as green energy sources. it had to be done anyway! and just a few days after this cop, you can't think of anything better than accepting an agribusiness cap that denies all our climate commitments. so, fortunately, not everyone is fooled here in this house, but especially outside. in the streets of glasgow during the cop, but also in the four corners of europe, young people are mobilizing. and you know, by the way, they're not saying, well done cap, long live the carbon market and long live finance, but vote this cap down, reject the cap and get out of fossil fuels! i would like to make an appeal to them here. do not resign, do not become cynical, keep the same strength and, most importantly, do not wait for others to make decisions for you. invade the public debate, invest the political institutions, take power. don't just denounce those who are burning the planet, replace them.
i do not know whether everything has been translated verbatim into all languages, but i do know that the use of strong and facal expressions does not generally improve the content of a speech.
mr president, my experience from being with the european parliament delegation in glasgow was that significant achievements were made, yet the world missed the opportunity to respect the paris agreement. the eu is leading the transition in the world with the climate law, with the green deal, but biden and kerry – the us – also want to share that leadership and it is back in the paris agreement with a new 2050 net zero target. that is, of course, very welcome. we also saw china and india commit to net zero ahead of the conference, but it is really deeply worrying that we are still aiming towards at least 2.4 degrees of heating. we met with the climate minister of the maldives, a country with a highest point of 2.4 metres. they will literally disappear if this continues. it was really touching to hear how climate change is really a matter of life and death. cop26 was also about trust. we are about to fail on covid vaccine deliveries and we failed to reach the climate financing goals. we have got another chance at cop27 to raise the short ambition. we cannot spoil it by not reaching the climate financing goals. the eu must also step up and overachieve on the climate law. only strong action can rebuild trust. only immediate action can save countries like the maldives.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the day after the glasgow climate summit ended, the bbc carried a story that the air in india's capital, delhi, is so polluted that schoolchildren are being forced to stay home indefinitely. imagine children being unable to go to school because the air around them is so dangerous to their health. it says something about the challenge we face. and that makes it, frankly, almost incomprehensible that countries like china and india, in the final phase of the summit, are opposed to a real phase-out of coal and instead talk about phasing it out. that is why glasgow also leaves a mixed impression in many ways. it is good that the so-called rule book from paris is being finalised, which gives us a chance to limit warming to one and a half degrees celsius - a chance! and it's nice that for the first time there's talk of going coal-free. but the fact that we can't agree to phase it out and instead call it a phase-down, that's sad. so yes, there were important developments in glasgow. it is good that countries will have to present new and hopefully more ambitious plans as early as next year on how they will deliver on the climate target. i think there is every reason to praise europe's role in what happened in glasgow. i think it was a good move, which shows that europe is ready to take responsibility, because there cannot be a greater and greater gap between ambition and reality, between promises and what is delivered. i can't do that. and it puts a lot of demands on ourselves in this house. we're supposed to deliver, even on "fit for 55".
mr president, i think it’s quite obvious in this discussion that it matters very much on your angle as to whether you call glasgow a success or not. i think, from an international negotiations perspective, glasgow was certainly a step forward, but i think we all acknowledge that not enough has been done yet to reach and avoid the climate crisis. for that, the coming year will be a crucial year again, and there i very much subscribe to what executive vice-president timmermans said on the coalition with the african union, which is going to be crucial. but i want to point out one success that was in the accord as well, and that’s on fossil subsidies, and the ending of fossil subsidies. in the paris agreement, there are three clear targets in article 2.1. it’s on mitigation, it’s on adaptation and it’s on making the financial flows consistent with our climate targets. that’s the third pillar of article 2.1 on the targets of the paris agreement, and that’s why it’s so important we are talking about fossil fuel subsidies. but let’s be honest. here, europe still has some homework to do. looking at the european countries, for example in the g7 in cornwall, germany, italy and france, part of the g7, commit to achieving an overwhelmingly decarbonised power system in the 2030s. we’ve seen quite a few countries stopping fossil fuel subsidies abroad, also including slovenia, and maybe this afternoon we will also see the german coalition putting an end to gas, because gas is the next fossil frontier that we need to address. and here really one big call to the european commission: if we are looking at the end of fossil fuel subsidies, you can never call gas a green investment in the taxonomy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like the others before it, this cop was doomed to failure because it refused to tackle the fundamental problems of market globalism, population growth and the use of advanced technology. instead, we had a great moment of demagogic communication. states have made many solemn pledges to reduce emissions, and before the end we were offered, like a hollywood movie, a surprise agreement between the united states and china. the cop26 was marked by the emphasis placed on the environment by the management sector and global firms, since the event was sponsored by unilever, among others. there is no better illustration of the collusion between economic and political rulers. nor is there a more emblematic example of eco-bleaching. we talk about growth and green jobs, sustainability, resilience and even gender, when in reality we are talking about more punitive ecology. because the paris agreement is untenable. to be sustainable, the economy would have to be fully planned. we are waiting for the next step, the introduction of a carbon budget, a kind of carbon pass on the model of the health pass and the social credit. meanwhile, the european union will spend money on climate transition in developing countries, including china, while undercutting its own industry. it will increase its citizens' energy bills through excessive carbon pricing, backed by a complex system of taxes and quotas. once again, we agree with greta thunberg that this non-event is a blabla.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in natural gas. if we are serious about the goal of european climate neutrality by 2050, we need nuclear energy. this is clearly acknowledged by both the internal services of the commission and the international energy agency. nuclear energy is good for the climate, it is safe and it makes us less dependent on fickle third countries. france is committed to small modular reactors. the debate seems to be reopening in the netherlands and during the cop it was announced that the american nuscale will build a small modular reactor in romania. so there are a lot of countries that are seeing the light. in others, unfortunately like mine, the lights are about to go out and people are switching back to polluting fossil fuels. last year, vice-president timmermans had it recorded that he had nothing against nuclear energy, but only as an intermediate solution. today, the minds seem to be ripe, because commission president von der leyen recently said emphatically that we need nuclear energy. it is indeed high time that the ambiguity about nuclear energy gave way to clarity. the commission must be clear-headed, follow the science and recognise nuclear energy as a green resource, including in the taxonomy.
mr president, i personally consider the glasgow cop26 climate summit to be a success if we act in a coordinated and sustained manner. world leaders have made a commitment that needs to be reinforced with concrete action. our commitment as europeans has been there for a long time. our most important ally, the us, has said it wants to go in that direction, to stimulate international cooperation on climate, and has announced massive investments. china and india have also made encouraging statements. we europeans need to understand that achieving climate goals means huge investments in digitisation and decarbonisation and, of course, in industry. the challenge we face is not just to save the planet, to give future generations a chance, but to remain competitive on the world stage. if europe just regulates and doesn't invest, we will lose in the global race. no matter how good our rules are, no matter how good the fit for 55 package is, our regulations alone cannot compete with the investments announced on the world stage. any plan for europe's green transition will only work if european industry is an integral part of the plan. it's very important that we treat the environmental, digital and industrial goals on an equal footing, because all of these depend on each other, and obviously we have to understand that innovation, research, digitization and decarbonization are promises for our future. we need to give our industry the opportunity to develop world-leading decarbonisation technology in europe. saving the planet is an urgent matter, but we want european industry to remain and thrive in europe. this is the only way we can ensure jobs for our citizens and a future for our generations.
mr president, thank you very much vice-president timmermans for the hard work that you and your team have done not only in glasgow but also in all the previous months to make sure that we are the most ambitious continent on climate change, and that this is our fight, the fight of the whole world, to convince everyone and permit me to make this plea, on behalf of all the european youth and the youth from all over the world, so that we remain that continent, we will remain that voice which is pushing and is most ambitious in the world when it comes to climate change. i can understand the anger of young people, i can understand their anger when they see that, because of the past, they know that their future is very unclear at times when it comes to climate. and i know where your heart is on this, because we've had so many meetings in the past months, and i know that your heart is with young people and that we can be and remain that continent that pushes the rest of the world for more ambition. we are the heart and mind of this battle which we have when it comes to climate. but as my friends and my colleague mohammed chahim, for example, mentioned very well, he came out of this cop26 conference. we also need to talk about what has not been done, and what we need to do more of. and the issue of loss and damage, which is often perhaps very difficult to talk about because we come from those countries that are stronger economically, but also on those issues of loss and damage we want, ourselves, to be the world leader on this. there are people today who are being affected by climate change. people are being forced to flee their countries, their cities and their villages, because of climate change. and we want to be that continent that helps them. we need to convince the rest of the developed countries that we should be at the forefront of these vulnerable countries that are having a major impact on the lives of many citizens. and so i urge you that, for cop27 in egypt, we are and remain at the forefront of this fight, also in terms of loss and damage.
mr president, mr vice-president, behind the tears of alok sharma, the president of cop26, is this sobering observation: the glasgow climate summit has disappointed. we can discuss the semantics endlessly: failure, disappointment, the glass half full of our colleague peter liese... i see that in glasgow we have committed ourselves to engaging one day. all these promises and what's the reality? methane, coal, forests, just the ads. so it's a disappointment, because the minimum agreement is moving away from the paris commitments and what the science says to limit the temperature rise to 1.5 degrees. disappointment too, because the necessary solidarity with the island territories most exposed to climate change has been betrayed. where are the billions of dollars promised to the marshall islands, to papua, to the polynesian atolls, to kiribati, for the losses and damage they are actually already suffering? this summer's events - the deadly floods in germany and belgium, the heat waves across southern europe - should, however, serve as a warning of the climate threat that is hitting everywhere, including, and increasingly, here at home. to quote the english columnist james moore, will the uk be in a similar situation when london and the south of britain are flooded and their inhabitants have to move further north? he said, "you only have to see the projections and the maps, that is, the science, for those who want to read and understand it". a forecast in the form of a sentence for the whole of europe. cop 26 - i conclude, mr president - is behind us, sharm el-sheikh is in our sights. the european union must raise its ambitions to avoid its next climate refugee crisis as well.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, six years ago the world's countries agreed on the 1.5 degree target. we're a long way from that. we're going straight to +2.6 degrees. this cop, after all, was the cop of injustice, the one that welcomed more than 500 representatives of the oil and gas industries and just two from vanuatu, a country that will soon be engulfed by the waters. a cop where rich countries, including the countries of the european union, despite the decisions of their courts, have not raised their climate targets. the european climate law, according to scientists, is also +2.6 degrees. injustice, because the richest, most polluting countries, but also companies, still refuse to take responsibility and pay for the human and natural disasters they have caused. so let's be serious: exxon knew, shell knew, and total knew, too. and europe, well, europe has let it go. so let's stop funding gas immediately, raise our climate targets and finally embark on the investigations and the big lawsuits needed today to do climate justice and do justice to humans.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i would like to speak to you about a subject which has been moving along at cop 26 - very slowly, much too slowly. it is the integration of the ocean in the implementation of the paris agreement, the integration of all ocean-based solutions. before 2015, the ocean was not even mentioned in the negotiations. after six years of mobilization by the international community, friends of the ocean - whom i greet here - the ocean is now anchored in the multilateral regime to combat climate change. but there is much more to it. i remind you that one out of every two breaths we take is from the ocean, which absorbs a quarter of our anthropogenic emissions. europe, commissioner, the world's leading maritime area, must integrate these ocean-based solutions into the implementation of the green deal. we need a real blue deal.
mr president, commissioner, cop 26 was supposed to be a historic event. this cop, alas, if it were to go down in history, would be the cop of small steps. let us be clear, it has not lived up to the hopes we had placed in it. but above all, mr timmermans, i deeply regret that the european union has shown its divisions in the open. when a few states sign a declaration on the sidelines of cop 26 not to include nuclear energy in the taxonomy, it serves neither the european union nor the fight against climate change and it goes against the work of the experts. but the timing was crucial. the european climate package is nothing less than an industrial revolution. i shall, however, take the few small steps forward from this disappointing cop. the acceleration of the emission reduction timetable, of course, the call to reduce coal-fired power and fossil fuel subsidies, or the implementation of a real work programme. it is on these advances that we must build the next cop, but with less naivete, and in particular on the commitment of some of our partners, such as china, for example, which is the world's largest polluter. this is why the rapid implementation of a carbon border adjustment mechanism must be at the heart of our climate action. our citizens must not pay the price for a lack of international commitment.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is an opportunity to remind us all that the health of our citizens is at stake in europe, but also beyond our borders. to tackle this pandemic, a global, concerted and united response was needed. from the beginning and until today, europe has never missed this appointment to protect its citizens and to protect the citizens of the world. so, basically, this is what we did. in april 2020, in the midst of the first wave, under the impetus of president macron, europeans united the international community around a new initiative: act-a. the initiative aims to empower everyone to fight the virus, in particular through the covax mechanism, which aims to ensure equitable access to the vaccine worldwide, especially in the poorest countries. to date, covax has delivered half a billion doses of vaccine to 144 countries. we europeans have become the first contributor, with over €3 billion. but very quickly we realized that the financial contributions to covax were not enough. global vaccine production was too low and poor countries were the first to suffer. once again, europe has acted: while vaccinating its own people, it has decided to give its own vaccines to the countries that need them most. but despite our efforts, we are faced with a reality that boils down to three figures: the vaccination rate is 76% in europe and 46% globally, but only 6% of africans are vaccinated. these numbers are hurtful. these numbers are undignified. so, yes, we have to do a lot more and faster. the longer we wait, the more vulnerable we all are to new variants. i'd like to make three calls. an appeal to the member states first. you have committed to delivering 300 million doses by the end of the year. the key is to speed up the dosing. today we are 95 million. we have a month left. one month to keep our promise, one month to remain credible to the countries that need it. in february 2022, we will have the africa-european union summit. the question of vaccination is creating a deep wound in the relations between our continents. we have to deliver on our promises and therefore give give more, give faster and give through covax. secondly, i would like to appeal to the commission. you have committed to give 200 million doses. this is to be welcomed, but it is only part of the answer. in the field, syringes and refrigerators are lacking and logistical planning is needed to organise vaccination campaigns. we could lose our doses. i therefore call for more resources to be provided as soon as possible to continue to support covax. finally, i call on the pharmaceutical industry to take its own responsibility. the success of the global vaccination campaign also depends on you. make deliveries easier and give more predictability and transparency. when and how many doses will come out of your factories? it's urgent that we know. ladies and gentlemen, in a context of crisis unprecedented for humanity, 'team europe' has played a historic driving role. so, more than ever, let's strengthen that leadership and vaccinate the world now.
madam president, commissioner, dear stella, minister, vaccinating the world is a human and medical necessity. it's irresponsible to make false propaganda in front of cameras. your lies are deadly. we have a good cause. of course, we need to continue donations through the act-a and covax devices and remove barriers to the delivery of doses, avoid vaccine waste, increase the purchase of equipment and focus on vaccines that are easy to use. but the european union's actions must go beyond assistance towards responsible and sustainable solidarity, as you recalled, mr minister, through the logistical contribution to vaccination campaigns, through the training of health professionals, through the sharing of know-how and technologies for vaccine production, through the fight against vaccine hesitancy and disinformation and through the development of an international treaty on pandemics, supported by the director of who, dr tedros, by the president of the council of the european union, charles michel, and which i propose with stella kyriakides in my report on serious crossborder threats to health.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are riots in rotterdam and brussels, live gunshots against citizens and a vaccine requirement that is going to be imposed in austria and elsewhere. this week, the german health minister said that by the end of winter, germans will be vaccinated, cured or dead. and not a single member, who is always quick to respond to riots on the other side of the world, has shown up here during this plenary. worse, not a word about our stockpiles of astrazeneca vaccines being smuggled back to the african continent. a vaccine withdrawn, not recommended due to serious side effects in austria, denmark, estonia, lithuania, latvia, luxembourg, france and norway. your plan for a global vaccination, let's talk about it. a few days ago, the president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen, was in washington to present the award for best commercial manager to the ceo of pfizer, mr bourla, in a gala outfit and without a mask, with the little elevator music that goes well with a movie! the ceo of pfizer, no doubt grimmed by this von der leyen award, has announced 4 billion doses for 2022. whoa! no shortage for the sixth dose. text-based negotiations, parts of the contracts hidden, no liability clauses... this is what brussels is signing. so this is the role of the european union in the fight against the covid-19 pandemic? the french government chief said on 21 july that the double dose vaccination prevents infection with covid-19. this week we learned that he himself, despite having been vaccinated twice, has tested positive for covid-19. i wish mr castex all the best. this should be a lesson in humility for all of us. what we do know is that we don't know anything. so let us refrain from verbal threats and brutal measures in order to give priority to prevention, precaution and free choice, the foundation of our european democracies.
madam president, commissioner, the commission, in order to ensure access to vaccines worldwide, proposes that wto member states use compulsory licensing as provided for in article 31 of the trips agreement instead of advocating temporary patent suspension. this is a serious mistake, madam commissioner, it is irresponsible, because this commission proposal will not allow the same increase in the production and availability of vaccines worldwide, for three reasons. the first is that governments that use compulsory licenses can be sued by patent holders. on the contrary, the suspension of patents gives them the legal certainty needed to increase local production. the second reason is that compulsory licensing will not lead to a significant reduction in the price to be paid for vaccines worldwide, as would be the case with the end of the patent monopoly. the third reason is that compulsory licensing does not cover all intellectual property rights, copyrights, trade secrets, industrial designs, etc. and therefore does not allow developing countries to obtain the technology needed to produce messenger rna vaccines. i want to point out that to date, who has not benefited from any transfer of this technology, because pharmaceutical companies do not share it voluntarily. in conclusion, the union should support the temporary suspension of intellectual property rights on vaccines at the next wto ministerial conference.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the world's leading exporter of vaccines. 425 million doses have been given to the poorest countries, over 1 billion doses have been exported by the european union to over 150 countries worldwide. the european industrial excellence actors have enabled the production of anti-covid vaccines in europe at an incredible speed. so, yes, let us be proud of this scientific and industrial achievement. let us be proud to be the global leader in solidarity with low- and middle-income countries, and proud to make a real contribution to the fight against this pandemic, which knows no borders. we obviously still need to step up our efforts to help the poorest countries to vaccinate their populations. this is obvious, this is a necessity. some believe that the removal of patents would be the solution to allow the whole world to have access to vaccines. this is not and will never be the only measure that will vaccinate the whole world. why would you do that? because the countries that could benefit from this patent waiver are not in a position to produce vaccines immediately. it takes almost two years to build a factory and set up a production line; the eu has a long history of providing a high level of security and a skilled workforce. the repeal of patents is also a false good idea. why would you do that? because companies would move elsewhere, european research capacities would be weakened and third countries would not produce more vaccines. so yes, we must act. we must act to get out of this pandemic as quickly as possible. and the way to achieve this goal can be summed up in a single word: solidarity; solidarity in logistics, solidarity in training, solidarity in research and sharing of information.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened with great interest to this debate, with many different views being expressed, and many sharing the same values, principles, beliefs and vision. this is rightly a very important debate for this parliament. first of all, i want to touch on one or two points. i think i need to go back to the facts. the facts are, as many of you have said, that vaccination remains the most effective tool we have to keep people safe and, even with the dominant delta variant with its increased transmissibility and severity, deaths continue to be prevented thanks to effective vaccines. this is backed by scientific evidence. we are facing truly rising numbers in the pandemic, mainly driven by those who are unvaccinated, but as many of you have said – and i wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for saying this – we need, altogether, to take a firm stand against the misinformation and disinformation which is fuelling vaccine hesitancy. we need to support the science and boost confidence in the vaccines. i think honourable members have been right to stress how much still needs to be done. we know we have to continue delivering more vaccines, especially to those that are under—served countries and communities, and we need to push ourselves, member states and key members of the international community. we need to work with partner countries to ensure that vaccines, once delivered, reach those who need them quickly and safely. while responding to the current pandemic, we also need to build resilience against future pandemics. the pandemic has shown that the global health architecture needs to be reformed and the who strengthened. the eu is strongly advocating with partners globally in favour of a pandemic treaty. negotiations in the run—up to the world health assembly special session are ongoing. the momentum is there. seventy who members are in support of a pandemic or an international agreement. we will continue to strengthen health systems in our partner countries for the longer term, and i believe our initiative to build manufacturing capacity in africa has the potential to be a true game—changer. honourable members also mentioned the trips waiver. we have been working now for weeks to find a solution that increases the production of covid—19 vaccines and medicines, while maintaining the necessary incentives for innovation, which are crucial for supporting local production. this needs to be seen together with our commitment and donations to covax, the sharing of vaccines and initiatives to invest in africa. as the ministerial conference approaches, it is true that it is crucial that all wto members engage in finding an outcome that really makes a difference on the ground. we are intensifying our efforts to find such an outcome on intellectual property as part of the broader response to the pandemic. i am confident that our regular reports to the european parliament’s contact group will show increasingly positive progress, and i look forward to the ongoing discussions in the coming months. i am certain of one thing: we will only achieve more if we act together.
the chairman of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner! globally, less than two percent of vaccine doses are used in low-income countries, and it is clear that this situation is highly unfair and that action is urgently needed. the vast majority of doses were used in high and upper middle income countries. the eu's vaccine strategy has never followed the 'eu first' principle, but has always aimed to ensure fair opportunities for all, including our low-income neighbours and partners. but i agree that this kind of initiative needs to be accelerated. let me just say that slovenia, with 1.7 doses donated, is at the top of the list of donations per capita. vaccine donations are a geopolitical issue and europe will not ignore its moral and political responsibilities. on the contrary, it will remain committed to continued cooperation and coordination at the global level and to ensuring universal and equitable access to safe and affordable vaccines, medicines and diagnostics in this and all future pandemics. thank you for the discussion today.
in writing. a comparison of european countries also shows that mortality is higher in countries with low vaccination rates. conversely, mortality is low in countries with high vaccination rates. there is a very strong correlation between mortality and vaccination rates. therefore, the best way to fight a pandemic is to vaccinate people. a uniformly high level of vaccination across the european union and also worldwide is the best protection against this devastating virus. the european union should do everything possible to bring vaccination to a uniformly high level in those member states which are currently lagging behind, and the european union should also help the poorest countries by supplying vaccines to them and by helping them to organise vaccination.
in writing. vaccines are the only solution. it is of paramount importance for the member states of the european union that safe and affordable covid-19 vaccines are available worldwide. more effective union involvement is important, not only through vaccination cooperation but also through the union's external policy instruments. support should be provided to the health systems of the countries concerned, both within and outside the covax initiative, to ensure that they have sufficient capacity to deploy the increased vaccine stocks in the coming months. otherwise, the large number of doses to be delivered in the coming months, totalling 1.1 billion doses, risks overwhelming the health systems of the countries of destination and damaging the vaccine stock. the effectiveness of the covax initiative is jeopardised by a lack of transparency. in addition, due to delays in receiving vaccines from manufacturers, it was not always possible to give countries long-term advance notice of the supply. this approach has also caused irreparable damage to public confidence in covid-19 vaccines within the european union. the uncertainty and lack of transparency surrounding procurement have made it very difficult for health systems to prepare, increased the spread of misinformation and led to the risk of mistrust of vaccines in the midst of the pandemic. vaccine variants should not be treated as ideological or political issues, as they are life-saving tools. vaccination is the only way to protect humanity from global warming.
member of the commission. – mr president, i’m honoured to present the state of the energy union report to you today. every year this report provides an opportunity to take stock of our energy policy and to see whether we are on track with implementing the energy union. since our last report, we have made huge strides in implementing our clean energy agenda in policy and legislative terms. the eu adopted the european climate law in march, making the reduction of at least 55% of emissions and the goal of climate neutrality by 2050 legally binding. in april, we presented the first delegated act on taxonomy. a few months later, in july, the commission put forward an interconnected package of proposals to put europe on the path to climate neutrality. this fit for 55 package included a revision of the renewable energy and energy efficiency directives to align them with our new and higher ambition. it has been a year of progress. at the same time, this year’s report is being published against the background of a sharp spike in gas and electricity prices in the eu and also globally. this is a concern for citizens, industry and governments across the eu and raises questions about the future of our clean energy agenda. to respond to them, in october the commission presented a toolbox of short and longer-term measures to tackle the challenge. it is against this backdrop that we come to this year’s state of the energy union report because this report and its annexes provide us with some important indications to assess the progress of the energy union across all its dimensions, but also to chart a response to today’s rising energy prices. today, i would like to highlight four main messages coming from this report. first, the report demonstrates that renewables markets have shown resilience through the pandemic. in 2020, renewables overtook fossil fuels for the first time as the eu’s main power source. the share of renewable energy sources in the overall eu energy mix is expected to have reached at least 22%. overall investment in renewables grew substantially in the eu to eur 48.8 billion euros in 2020, up from eur 32.9 billion euros in 2019. increasing ambition and delivering on decarbonisation is also about achieving the existing 2020 target for renewables. the latest available data shows that the eu as a whole, and the majority of member states individually, were on track to achieve these targets, thanks, partly, to the lowering of prices of key technologies such as wind and solar over the years. this is good news, but it is not enough. we need to accelerate the deployment of renewables in the years to come. this means moving forward with a revised red iii proposal, but also tackling head—on the permitting and authorisation bottleneck. next year, we will present ideas on how to facilitate the permitting process. a better administrative and business environment will be a key in getting more projects off the ground. second, soaring energy prices remind us that we remain too reliant on fossil fuels in the eu. this is confirmed by this year’s state of the energy union. paradoxically in 2020, the eu level of dependency from fossil fuel imports is the highest since a decade. more work also needs to be done to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. although these subsidies fell in 2020, this is more a reflection of decreased energy consumption overall rather than a new trend. subsidies are a major impediment to a cost-efficient energy and climate transition and to a functioning energy market. they should be targeted to boost the uptake of new energy technologies to promote sustainable patterns of energy consumption and to lower energy bills. third, the report makes the benefits of market coupling clear. this is the most tangible example of the progress made in harmonising national rules on energy trading and system operation. market coupling connects all member states and creates a common eu trading platform for electricity. this is very important in the context of the current energy price spike. a recent acer report shows that those countries that are better interconnected and less dependent on fossil fuels have remained less vulnerable to energy price volatility. therefore, market coupling is an antidote to this phenomenon we are currently experiencing. that’s why i will maintain the focus on market integration. accomplishing market coupling in all timeframes across internal borders, including close to real—time balancing, would generate additional welfare benefits of more than eur 1.5 billion per year. it would also reduce the need for backup fossil fuel power plants, thus saving significantly on greenhouse gas emissions. fourth, and finally, the state of the energy union is accompanied by a report on the competitiveness of the clean energy industry in europe. the report shows that the eu remains at the forefront of clean energy research. at global level it has a greater share of green inventions in climate change mitigation technologies than other major economies. the eu is also well placed in terms of global market share in a number of established clean energy technologies such as wind, but global competition remains fierce. in solar pv, the eu is at the cutting edge in certain parts of the value chain, especially research and development, but we have a comparably small market share in manufacturing. next year, we will present a solar strategy to help the domestic solar industry to grow and compete on the international scale. we also maintain our strong global position in hydrogen technology, storage and batteries. each of these have major scaling-up potential in the years to come and represent a great opportunity for the eu. yet the report clearly shows that we cannot be complacent or we will rapidly lose our position in this global scale. increased private and public investments are needed for the eu to maintain its competitiveness and the recovery fund is an opportunity not to be wasted. this report shows that we have come a long way in our progress towards a sustainable and competitive energy union, but it’s also a warning that more needs to be done. i will end my remarks here and look forward to hearing your views on how to make our energy union stronger.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the european energy union is based on different pillars, as the commissioner has been highlighting. but currently, policy agendas are primarily based on climate action and decarbonisation. rightly so – but what about the other pillars? the report points out that europe is making good progress towards decarbonisation. however, we all know that more is needed. the other four pillars of the energy union need to be in place for europe to be successful in 2030. so let’s discuss what needs to happen. one crucial pillar of the energy union is a fully-integrated internal energy market through, among other things, the development of sufficient infrastructure. the market needs to foster the transition as well as being prepared for the decarbonisation future. we need eu instruments and regulation, as well as effective state-aid rules – and the ones we are developing are not effective – to allow for necessary funding to develop our infrastructure. to assure the gradual transformation of our energy system, member states have to develop a gas project for the fifth list of projects of common interest (pci) – the next pci list – which should be compatible also with hydrogen—proof infrastructure for the future. and the second pillar i would like to mention is just on the very fact of investment. i’m deeply worried you have been highlighting the comparative advantage we have now – but we are living in a different world since the new american administration. the americans are not going to go down the regulatory alley – rightly so or not rightly so. but they challenge us, because they’re going to invest: they will put their money on innovation, and it’s a race. and it’s not a race of state aid, a state—driven capitalist system, like china and india, not caring about their citizens. it’s the western democracies now challenging each other. and innovation, from my point of view, is the driving force for decarbonisation and will be at the core of the decarbonisation of industry. so the bottom line is: innovation cannot be stimulated by regulation only; we have to invest. we have to invest, and the commission has to come up with an idea of how to do so.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if i were to take one conclusion from the latest state of the energy union report, it would be that in 2020, renewables have overtaken fossil fuels as the main source of energy in the european union. this is a very encouraging sign that, yes, the european union is making significant progress in the energy transition. but, alas, this is not enough. our greenhouse gas emissions are not falling fast enough and we are far from the climate targets we set ourselves in this house. as you have pointed out, madam commissioner, our energy dependence is at its highest level in 30 years, with more than 60% of the energy consumed in the european union being imported from third countries, particularly oil and fossil gas. this is an undeniable problem for our european energy sovereignty. we therefore need to accelerate our efforts in decarbonised energy and energy efficiency to both reduce our emissions and reduce europe's energy dependence. i would like to emphasise that all decarbonised energy sources are useful and necessary. indeed, as is often the case, opposing renewable energy to nuclear energy does not advance our fight against global warming, when both are decarbonised energy sources and, above all, both are cost-competitive, despite what some people claim. finally, it is important to give priority to local energy production here in europe. for example, producing hydrogen thousands of kilometres from the european union and then transporting it for consumption in europe is not a sustainable solution. so let's produce and consume locally as much as we can, in the energy field too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, thank you very much for this presentation, for the progress made and for your work. but there is an urgent need - we have seen it, we are talking about it - to stop fuelling our dependence on fossil fuels. it is a tragedy that the gas and nuclear lobbies are fighting together to get into the taxonomy that should be devoted to green energy rather than destructive activities. it is also a shame to see some here in the council clinging to the financing of gas projects in the regional plans, in the stimulus funds, or - as we saw with the council in negotiations last night - in the new regulation on energy infrastructure. commissioner, you also presented us with a list of infrastructure projects to be financed in the next two years, which still contains some 20 gas projects. but all the energy infrastructure we are financing today is not going to tie us to fossil fuels for years, but for decades, at the expense of the climate. we must act now and stop delaying action. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the fifth list of projects of common interest in favour of a list which is 100% renewable. and commissioner, we will stand with you in the council to ensure that tomorrow we no longer finance climate-killing infrastructure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of energy we can at least credit the european union for its continuity, for its continuity in error. at the methodological level, you proceed by objectives, in the form of ultimatums, without consideration of the sectors, the economic balances, the histories of each country. you are setting deadlines that are too strict and thus putting individuals or governments at risk of unjust retaliation. as usual, you are using the tax weapon, even though it affects first the working classes in our countries, who have been so badly affected by the leaching of globalisation. not everyone can afford an electric car, and cars are not suitable for rural use. in the end, you continue to devastate our landscapes with your wind turbines, on land or at sea, for intermittent, evanescent, exorbitant energy and, finally, because of the lifetime of installations that are difficult to recycle, polluting. and then there is the question of nuclear energy, which is decarbonised if anything, and which the coal promoters in germany would like, out of pure ideology, to deprive france and germany of. this religious excommunication denies our countries the means of their power and energy independence. we have, with french nuclear power, a chain of excellence that ensures cheap, constant, clean electricity, which can be extended to decarbonised hydrogen, when you are stuck with renewable hydrogen. in a matter of such importance for the future of europe, you are clearly still a prisoner of your own ideological whims.
madam president, commissioner, dear stella, dear frédérique, thank you for organising this essential debate. being a rare disease means facing the risk of late diagnosis, difficulties in accessing treatments, clinical trials, a sense of loss of confidence, uncertainty and isolation. an effective action plan against rare diseases must be european because we need this critical mass of skills. the european union has created the valuable model of european reference centres, which enable the exchange of practices between specialists, the answer to questions posed by doctors who are often destitute, access to quality consultations, databases and expert patients. let us preserve and strengthen this achievement, so that we leave no one behind. these centres need a budget that meets the expectations of the 30 million patients with a rare disease in the european union. commissioner, please finance them.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, we freed up the floor with metoo, and then we dumped our pig. we've given up our pig in film, we've given up our pig in literature, we've given up our pig in sports. we got up and we broke down. but you decorated the pigs. even those who have acknowledged the facts. then we threw our own family out, adults who abuse children, men who abuse other men. we've got actors, musicians, youtubers, publishers all in the mix. we've also been kicking the church and, lately, the bars. and now we're even throwing politics. but you made them ministers. don't think that this doesn't cost us. as soon as we start to swing, there's retaliation, intimidation, exclusion, insults, threats, harassment. we are exhausted, but we are not afraid of you. we will continue to do whatever it takes to end the impunity of the aggressors, whatever it takes to protect ourselves and earn the respect we deserve.
mr president, beatings, threats, humiliation, sexual exploitation, cyber-harassment, femicide... and the list is unfortunately still very, very long. let us be realistic, we cannot achieve equality between women and men as long as violence continues, victims are stigmatised and perpetrators go unpunished. yet we have a strong and binding instrument, the istanbul convention, which sets minimum standards of protection for all types of gender-based violence. while accession to the european union by the 27 member states could change the lives of millions of european women, six countries continue to refuse to ratify it. we ask the heads of state of bulgaria, slovakia, hungary, latvia, lithuania and the czech republic: do you not consider that your citizens deserve to be heard, believed and protected? the recent decision of the european court of justice confirms that your apology is not admissible. and you, madam commissioner, we have been waiting for two and a half years for an ambitious legislative package against violence and the inclusion of gender-based violence as a crime in european law. you know the song " words and words and words " ? and when are the acts?
mr president, when an increasing number of countries decide to attack the istanbul convention and to use disinformation in order to undermine the protection of women and lgbti people, the eu and its institutions must more than ever be exemplary and ambitious, not only by reaffirming our shared values on equality and fundamental rights but also by using the tools that we have to react when they are under attack, and that we under-use systematically on these sorts of topics. in may 2020, the hungarian parliament rejected the ratification of the istanbul convention under the pretext that it promotes destructive gender ideologies and illegal migration. at the same moment, civil society organisations reported an alarming increase of reports of domestic violence during the first covid-19 lockdown. today it is not even possible to understand the extent of gender-based violence in hungary, as the government simply does not collect data on this issue. instead of properly funding services for victims of gender-based violence and enacting adequate legislation to eradicate gender-based violence, the hungarian government spends its energy in rejecting any international or eu text excluding the word gender. every time people talk about not ratifying the istanbul convention but fighting anyway, every time they want to protect some women but not others, every time they avoid the word ‘gender’, the word ‘intersectionality’, the word ‘minorities’, they do not really want to act. they are just using this. and every time they use also the word ‘ideology’, they are just using the combat of women to use their own purpose, and they’re not doing anything.
mr president, madam commissioner, the agenda is the progress and status of the elimination of violence against women. the conclusion is that nothing is done, nothing is advanced. in france, 220 000 women a year are victims of domestic violence; more than 100,000 women are raped or assaulted every year. 120 000 are excise each year; the number of rapes has increased by 32 percent in the last two years. this is yet another proof that nothing is being done, neither in france nor in europe. you prefer to invest in publicity for the wearing of the hijab and show hypocrisy, even irony, by signing an international agreement called the istanbul convention, a turkish city whose president erdoğan is an islamist. this islamist has relegated mrs von der leyen to a couch like a little schoolgirl, leaving the serious discussions to the men. nothing will ever improve the situation of women in this european union suffering from stockholm syndrome. if you ever want to get your feet back on the ground, get back to reality, 35 per cent of women say they have been exposed to physical or sexual violence in their lifetime. 101 women have been beaten to death in france since 1 january this year. this is what happens when you try to entrust fate, the fate of women to their worst enemies. michel sardou was singing "women, i love you". it would be really time to love them, and really love them.
mr. chairman, violence against women must be prosecuted and punished. this should, of course, be done through the criminal codes of each individual country. that's how the legal system of the states works. the istanbul convention has nothing to do with it. it's a propaganda campaign that has an ideology under the legitimate banner of fighting violence against women. and you know that. an ideology that is part of the triad, along with climate hysteria and utopian "greenism" of some idea of a new world order that you're trying to impose. an ideology that will be swept away, of course, by your new friends, the damned refugees. it's going to happen, and it's inevitable. if you want to check and see what propaganda the so-called "istanbul convention" is, just tell me what the statistics are on violence in islamic communities in france. and then you'll know what we're talking about. you all know about this statistic, but it's not comfortable, so you don't talk about it. if you want to propose an effective fight against violence, which must be waged, of course, it must be done through the criminal codes of the respective countries, not through the mad propaganda, nor through any attempt to change our society through the so-called "gender ideology".
mr president, madam commissioner, the fight against violence against women is a matter which concerns us all, on which we must act and on which we cannot fail. europe has a role to play. today, of course, member states can legislate, but that is up to them. so europe has a duty to act. act by ratifying the istanbul convention, the first binding international instrument to combat violence against women and children. and europe must put pressure on the six countries which have not yet ratified it, because that is not acceptable. europe must also act by legislating. the european commission has announced that it will present a text in december to create a common and binding basis for all member states to combat such violence. so i expect this new legislation to have three components: a prevention component, to better educate european citizens on gender equality from an early age; a protection component, to better welcome, listen to and protect women victims of violence; the commission has also set up a 'gender-based violence' section and a 'prosecution' section to define a common framework at european level and make gender-based violence a new area of crime. there is an urgent need to train all professionals who are called upon to deal with cases of violence against women. a european toll-free number, open 24 hours a day and available in all member states and in all languages, is urgently needed. the creation of a european network of secure one-stop shops for women victims of violence is urgently needed, and the budget for daphne, the european union programme that funds projects to prevent and combat violence and protect victims, needs to be increased.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, jennifer in france, angelica in germany, sylvia in italy and anna in poland. a few names of women who are sisters, cousins, friends, mothers, daughters. four human groups destroyed because these women were killed by their spouse or ex-spouse, this year, in 2021, in the european union, here and now. unfortunately, the list is longer. every year, hundreds of women in europe are killed by their husbands or ex-husbands. every day, women are raped, harassed, on the street, on the internet. we live in a society today that is gangrenous with gender stereotypes. patriarchy, machismo, sexism are still very much a reality. we, the european legislators, have a responsibility. we cannot just hide behind the idea that the istanbul convention must go further. we also need a directive to combat violence, but we also need to lead a real cultural revolution so that in the education we give to our girls and boys, at home and at school, from an early age, we instill in boys and girls the culture of equality. so that this list of murdered women no longer exists.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, despite all our efforts over the years, the efforts of the union and the un to rebuild and stabilise somalia politically, unfortunately this unfortunate country is still being ravaged by violence, jihadist terrorism, famine, malnutrition, corruption and even crime. yes, we must ensure that the elections are not delayed beyond the december date, otherwise this would give al shabaab even more room to regain ground of influence, but we must also reflect on the impending expiry of the amisom mandate, to think about how we can ensure, help, contribute to building security in somalia. we need to have a realistic and accessible approach, which pushes for greater un involvement, but which also seeks to ensure that somali-led security is provided, which respects human rights, which is able to provide concrete solutions to africans for african problems. protecting journalists and human rights defenders, preventing somali children from being condemned or being child soldiers or starving to death, this is what we must achieve by standing with local communities, by standing with civil society and all those who do not want somalia to become a failed state.
madam president, commissioner, this year alone, 964 civilians have been killed or injured as a result of armed clashes in somalia. in addition to the dead and wounded, the number of malnourished, undernourished, displaced, unemployed, climate refugees and the various internal and external conflicts is increasing daily. all of this adds up to a very fragile response to the pandemic and an unsustainable political situation. the current electoral impasse requires a strong commitment to complete the current process by the end of this year, leaving no gaps open for terrorism to take over everyday life, as has happened and is happening in so many other countries on the continent. the restrictions on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens in general, and of the opposition in particular, together with the restrictions on freedom of expression and the murders of journalists, are reprehensible. women and children are, in this conflict, as in many other similar cases, the weakest link, and they must be protected. the somali authorities cannot vote to the neglect of their citizens and must act quickly, responsibly and firmly so that the crisis can be de-escalated to the benefit of everyone and above all the country.
member of the commission. – madam president, today, i have four points of concern to make. first, since we continue to witness political security tensions in somalia that have created delays in the electoral process and overall reform dynamics, notably security transition. while we welcome news that somalia’s leaders appear to have resolved their differences, we urge them to refocus on national priorities and work to overcome political hurdles. we urge the finalisation of a credible electoral process by the end of 2021, in line with the electoral model consensually agreed, respecting the 30% minimum quota for women. and secondly, we have security concerns about al-shabab’s ability to continue to conduct attacks. we strongly condemn all acts of terrorism and express our condolences to somali victims and to those african union soldiers killed or wounded fighting against al-shabab. countering terrorism requires close coordination and collaboration among all stakeholders. we urge somali and african union leadership to enhance cooperation on this and to implement these somali security transition plan, which is critical for progress on security. we remain committed to a comprehensive political approach for somalia’s future and acknowledged that african union security engagement in somalia is required beyond 2021, in line with un security council resolution 2568. the eu is prepared to support a continued presence and post a mission. but we do need to understand what that presence would look like before financial commitment. thirdly, somalia faces humanitarian challenges such as drought conditions and floods that lead to food insecurity and displacements. the country is also on the frontline of climate change, and the frequency and severity of climate related hazards is increasing. today, the situation is grim, with severe drought and low humanitarian aid funding levels. children, women, the elderly and persons with disabilities continue to bear the brunt of somalia’s humanitarian crisis. fourthly, the rise in human rights abuses, such as conflict related sexual violence and grave violations against women and children remains deeply worrying. the somali authorities should hold perpetrators of these violations accountable, expediting the implementation of its commitments to end and prevent these grave violations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. unfortunately, there are regions or countries which have been a recurring theme in parliament for many years and where despite the efforts of the international community the situation is continually deteriorating rather than improving. one of those places is somalia. ineffective governance, political instability, separatist and terrorist groups, food shortages, drought, and the coronavirus pandemic have brought the country to the brink of humanitarian disaster. in a country of 12 million people, half - about 6 million - are in need of immediate assistance, and nearly 3 million are suffering from hunger and lack of basic necessities, including access to water. the situation is particularly dire for the youngest: according to the latest projections, by 2022 some 1.2 million children under the age of five will be malnourished. furthermore, children are being recruited into armed organizations - primarily by al-shabaab terrorists, but also by local government, clan and even government forces. such practices should be stopped and the international community should pay particular attention to this issue. it should also be remembered that no matter how much money the un, the african union or the eu donate, the situation will not improve until the political situation in the country stabilizes, the electoral process is completed and a new, effective government is elected.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights violations by private military and security companies, particularly the wagner group (2021/2982(rsp))*. ______________* see minutes.
author. madam president, officially the wagner group does not exist. at least that's the kremlin's position. it's annoying, because you find the wagner group everywhere russia tries to expand its influence: in ukraine, in syria, in libya, in the central african republic and maybe one day - let's hope not, let's make sure not - in mali. it's annoying because the wagner group's victims are real. rape, torture, murder, arbitrary arrests. i'm not going to lie. our resolution describes the atrocities committed by wagner's men and it is a litany of horror. we must salute all those who investigate these crimes, sometimes at the risk of their lives. three russian journalists were murdered in the central african republic because they were investigating the abuses of the wagner group. perhaps that is why the wagner group does not officially exist in moscow: to allow russia to escape responsibility for its crimes. but the wagner group does not just commit massive human rights violations. he thrives on the distress of the countries he strikes. mining, seizure of customs resources, he will stop at nothing to seize the resources of countries that have had the misfortune to use what we dare not call his services. let us add to this massive disinformation campaigns, because this russian group not only wants to intervene wherever it pleases, it also wants to drive out those, and especially the europeans, who are trying to stabilize the countries in crisis and to bring them out of the chaos, the money of trade of these mercenaries. so i would like to tell the malian authorities to think of their country, to rise to the level of the responsibilities they have taken on and to turn their backs clearly, definitively, on the idea of using mercenaries who would only add violence to violence without ever putting an end to it. and i want to congratulate our european union which has decided to sanction the wagner group and to order it to act quickly and strongly against these sowers of hatred and death.
author. madam president, the truth is that the number of private military and security companies is increasing, encouraged precisely by many states that use them with a clear geopolitical interest and to avoid public scrutiny and accountability. at the same time, there are also increasing allegations of involvement of these companies in cases of torture, sexual violence, murder and many other human rights violations. this resolution focuses on one particular company, but unfortunately there are many more that have not been mentioned, just as there has been no mention of how some of these companies benefit from the increase in the budget for 'strengthening europe' while selling arms and fuelling the conflicts that force people to flee. the privatisation of security is creating insecurity and instability globally. that is why our position is very clear: no to outsourcing security to private entities. security cannot be turned into a commodity in the hands of paramilitaries.
for the ppe group. madam president, this report from the european parliament is proof that our priority is security and human rights. i want to thank all the colleagues who initiated and negotiated this report. it's wagner's company that appears everywhere there's conflict, like the war in ukraine, in syria, in libya. these secret private armies and security companies pose a danger to both the victims and the governments and international institutions that seek to hold the group accountable for its actions. the wagner group represents another hybrid instrument of the war being waged by russia against the european union and our allies. it doesn't exist formally, as we've said here, but it's illegal in russia because all security and defense matters are in the hands of the state. yet there is evidence that this wagner group exists. i am very pleased that last week the european union's foreign ministers agreed to proposed sanctions directed against the wagner group's operations. the european union must impose these sanctions as soon as possible. the european union must share intelligence and make it harder for moscow to deny responsibility and spread lies about its involvement in war operations. ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to wait for the next wagner group casualty.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the russian private, military and security companies constitute a major means of strategic deception which they call maskirovka. using legal loopholes, information denial and multilevel state apparatus support, those companies – in particular wagner – became an important factor in hybrid warfare of the present russian federation. russian pmses, well-tested during the occupation of crimea and donbas, further spread their activities and mercenary activities in middle east and africa. a major rise and further expansion of wagner-type pmcs is guaranteed by well-controlled vertical political power and a ring of trusted friends in the kremlin. at this crucial point, colleagues, we have to break down the anonymity of wagner activities and disclose undercover their operations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the first thing to understand about the wagner group is that there is very likely no wagner group, no single company registered under that name, but rather a network of entities interconnected with the russian state and military system and connected to each other by overlapping ownership and logistical networks. their nature presents a very difficult challenge for state entities which do not always have all the right tools to deal with the risks posed by the activity of these contractors. the various initiatives aimed at developing clear and binding international legal rules to restrict and regulate these activities are therefore essential. the eu must strongly support the un intergovernmental working group on the drafting of a regulatory framework for private companies, ensuring that this document is ambitious and that its timely implementation leads to supporting the efforts of all national and international jurisdictions to initiate criminal proceedings to hold all these pmscs accountable for the very serious human rights violations they often commit. with clear and transparent rules, we will finally have the tools to finally make concrete the contrast to what seem to be ghosts, but which are in reality simply hidden in the folds of our systems.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the situation in the sahel region. but our engagement - whether in the field of security, humanitarian aid or development and state building - in this region and in mali in particular is being hit hard by destabilising factors, such as the operations of the wagner group, which certainly require more of our attention. the union and the member states must take targeted and effective action to combat this. i also think it is important that my country, belgium, takes full responsibility for this. the sanctions against actors behind the deployment of this mercenary gang are not too early, but more will be needed. i would like to draw two points of interest from our resolution. first, the alleged influence and control from russia must be thoroughly investigated and, if possible, revealed. there are strong indications that this too is a method of hybrid warfare, just as in eastern ukraine. where hybrid threats arise, we owe it to ourselves to invest in resilience. secondly, why is the union not more actively developing an effective policy, commissioner, against the subversive actions of mercenaries in conflict zones in general and against their destabilising effects on our foreign and security policy? the question of mercenaries and the way in which the union should deal with them in policy terms is really a matter for reflection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: by privatising war, the americans have opened a pandora's box. the russian government has been involved in this breach in its own way - opaque, secret, outside any legal framework. the wagner group, which has no formal existence in russia, is waging wars that moscow does not declare. ukraine, syria, libya, central africa, etc., these mercenaries are found absolutely everywhere, with their long procession of extortions, torture, rape, executions, looting. the shadow that allows these crimes is systematically organized. let us pay tribute here to the three russian journalists of dossier center who were murdered in central africa while investigating the wagner group. let us pay tribute to the ngo memorial which had the courage to file a complaint in moscow against a torturer of the group for his crimes in syria and which is now threatened with a ban by the russian authorities. so let's expose wagner's actions, sanction all the executives, agents, financiers in the group. let us abolish public subsidies to governments that use their services. wagner is a mafia group at war with the interests and principles of the european union, and it is time to treat it as such.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was inevitable, it was desirable, it was normal: it was normal that at the end of the 20th century, the century of decolonisation, the century of the end of empires - whether ottoman, austro-hungarian, french, british, portuguese or other - it was normal, inevitable and desirable that the russian empire should come to an end. this 30th anniversary is a moment of joy, joy for all these liberated peoples, joy for russia itself which has freed itself from an empire which oppressed it almost as much, if not more, than the other peoples of the same empire. so, what about today? well, two things to mr. putin and one thing to the russian people. mr putin must be told that it is shocking, unacceptable and incomprehensible that on the 30th anniversary of the end of empires, of the russian empire, he is silencing memorial, the movement that has been working for 30 years to restore the memory of the victims of the soviet system. and then, mr putin, the second thing we want to say to you today is that you are afraid, you tell us, of the advance of the atlantic alliance to your borders. yes, very well, perhaps; that's an argument that can be made. but then you must understand that we may fear the presence on our borders, those of the european union, of an army as aggressive as yours, of a power which has annexed crimea and de facto occupied eastern ukraine. and then, to the russian people, we want to say that we are certain and confident that one day they will resume their march towards democracy and that together with them, with a democratic russia, we will be able to build the stability and prosperity of our common continent.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, as repeatedly expressed here, the commission fully shares parliament’s commitment to do all the eu can to fight all forms of violence against women. this includes gender—based cyberviolence, which has increased exponentially, even due to the intensified online lives we have all experienced and are still experiencing during the pandemic. most of us have switched to online schooling, working, entertainment and provision of services. but while the switch has happened, the digital environment has not yet been fully adapted to guarantee online safety for everyone. online violence targeting women has become pervasive, with specific vicious consequences. it’s a barrier to women’s participation in public life. bullying, harassment and abuse on social media have far—reaching effects on victims’ daily lives. the gender equality strategy announced the adoption of a set of measures within the limits of eu competences to achieve the same objective as the istanbul convention, as well as targeted measures to address cyberviolence against women. these measures will, to a large extent, meet the objectives sought by the report discussed today. early next year, the commission intends to put forward a broad directive on violence against women and domestic violence with a focus on prevention, protection, support and access to justice, which would include criminalisation of specific forms of violence against women and domestic violence on the basis of the existing legal basis in article 83 of the treaty. the commission envisages to address online and offline forms of violence against women and domestic violence in the same legislative proposal, since cyberviolence is often part of a continuum of violence taking place offline. this would meet our shared objective of filling the most important gaps and ensuring that the most serious forms of cyberviolence against women are sanctioned in europe. in the upcoming directive we intend to cover, as also requested by parliament, measures to prevent cyberviolence against women, protect and support victims, improve access to justice with a victim—centred and intersectional approach, and ensure better coordination between competent authorities. these measures can be adopted on the basis of existing treaty provisions and do not require the prior establishment of a new eu crime of gender—based violence. moreover, last week, the commission adopted an initiative to trigger a council decision to extend the list of eu crimes in article 83 of the treaty to include hate crime and hate speech. this new area of eu crime would subsequently allow the commission to propose criminalising also specific forms of gender—based hate crime and hate speech not covered by the existing legal basis. these initiatives will, to a large extent, achieve the objectives pursued by parliament. these proposals are a complement to, and will support the effectiveness of, the measures proposed in the digital services act, which requires that intermediary services address illegal content online. in particular, the eu—level criminalisation of cyberviolence against women will clarify the notion of illegal content online. the commission is also delivering on a number of non—legislative measures you are calling for. the new citizenship, equality, rights and values programme has significantly increased funding for organisations and projects fighting gender—based violence. we are working to improve data collection and have tasked eurostat with conducting an eu—wide survey on gender—based violence. we are preparing an eu—wide communication campaign to tackle gender stereotypes. furthermore, we will facilitate cooperation between internet platforms and other relevant stakeholders in order to protect women’s safety online. we are also preparing legislation to prevent and combat child sexual abuse online and create an eu centre to prevent and combat child sexual abuse, as parliament requested. overall, this package of legislative and non—legislative measures is aimed at tackling gender—based violence against women and domestic violence, through a holistic approach. it will, to a large extent, cover the measures which this parliament is calling for.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the s&d group, as coordinator of the femm committee, can only say that we are absolutely behind you and will support any step you take to protect women online from violence. normally, we often talk about topics as if they were so side by side. there is the issue of violence against women, there is the issue of the pay gap, the problem of paying. there is also the issue of participation. i think that rarely, when you have a topic like "violence against women online", do you realize that these issues are all connected. the aim is to attack women on the internet, to silence them, that is to say, to exclude them from participation, including political participation. that's the goal. we have summarized it under the heading 'violence against women', but we must also clearly name it. it's about shutting women up, rejecting them, sending them back to the kitchen. that's why you have our full support. we will do everything to finally tackle this issue of violence against women online, which is really spreading like a cancer across europe. because free speech on the net, free speech in parliament, free speech at home in the family, free speech at work, free speech is not only for men, but for women as well, without being scolded for it, without being chased for it on the net.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, one in ten european women has experienced some form of cyber violence since the age of 15. 20% have experienced cybersexual harassment and of these, 77% have also experienced some form of sexual or physical violence by their intimate partner. in short, this is what we are talking about: violence against women. a violence that's moving to the net. commissioner, we need european tools to combat this violence. we need a common european framework for a common definition. we need european action and we also need a common framework for prevention and assistance to victims. in a society like the european one, where more than 90% of households have access to the internet, we are seeing how this online violence affects very directly the young population, who make the virtual world their normal social communication space. in spain, more than 40% of teenage girls have admitted to having been bullied online. trafficking in women for sexual exploitation has clearly moved online. commissioner, we are talking about gender-based violence against women and we need data, we need coordination between states, we need collaboration with technology companies to be able to combat it effectively. for this we need a directive against gender-based violence which has its legal basis in the amendment of article 83 of the treaty. because gender-based violence has to be a eurocrime. we do not want our demands to be met in part with this directive: we want them to be met. our demand is the introduction of gender-based violence in the treaty as a eurocrime. it is also a commitment made by president von der leyen in her inaugural speech. as europeans, we must respond to that commitment.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a woman threatened online is in danger. if she’s a journalist, a politician, an activist, the consequences could be terrible. young girls can be assaulted for days and weeks without an end in sight, and this is true for all victims of gender-based online violence. this is why some women, lgbti+ people and minority people have ultimately left the online space to flee this discrimination. but this is not a solution. we cannot expect people to leave so that the problem no longer exists. it would be dangerous to put control in the hands of just a few big tech companies. this would let them define what we mean by ‘hate’. it would let them decide on the meaning of freedom of speech, who are the most vulnerable users and who are the ones to be silenced. what we need to happen has already taken place in the past. i am referring to the establishment of ground rules to make up a comprehensive system, a set of legal, governmental and societal tools, for a completely new space. in only the last 10 years, the online space has completely transformed many aspects of our societies. to meet these challenges, we need clearly defined laws, including pragmatic concrete measures, as well as education and training for law enforcement and better implementation. we need police and justice to know what they are dealing with. we need culture and society to be involved. this will require a lot of resources. but this money, it exists – it’s already there in these big companies. it just needs to be redirected to better support and protect users online. big companies cannot be allowed to continue using this business model, which reserves limited resources for these important measures. if we cannot address this, we run the risk of leaving machines and non-transparent algorithms with the implicit bias to continue censoring some people, while targeting others.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, her name was juliette, 15 years old forever, because the weight of cyber-harassment drove her to end her life on 1 may 2021. maëlle, who is 14 years old, committed suicide in january 2020 after an intimate video was shared on social media. for maëlle, juliette and all the victims, a comprehensive european strategy for criminalisation is essential, as the different forms of violence are often intrinsically linked to cyberviolence. they can go before, alongside or behind. and the thing about cyberbullying is that it follows the victim everywhere. it doesn't stop when you go home, there's no place we're safe. it's a gangrene that's dying, a perverse monster that, behind the screen, wants nothing more than to rape you. what can you do? leaving a social network is isolating yourself. and running away from a harassing person is not the same as being safe, for your harasser may be your neighbor, a classmate, or a coworker. with the committee on women's rights and gender equality, we have drawn up a cross-party text. this text is intended to be a bridge, an umbrella, a solid roof under which the european union must provide legal protection and assistance to victims. parliament's position is clear. now it is up to you - the commission - to act, because if we are not ambitious on this point, if we turn a blind eye, we will be complicit in these broken lives. and as silence and its consequences slowly consume women victims, young girls victims and lgbtqi+ victims, let's be their voices, their shoulders and let's give them justice.
(start of the intervention off the mic) ... racial violence, economic, sexual theft is obviously systemic. men's violence against women would therefore be born in school textbooks. apart from cancer, we will have to explain the violence of learning spelling or mathematics. to treat such a sensitive and increasingly important subject with the help of a crazy ideology is a real betrayal. online violence is just the unfiltered mirror of the violence of our societies: exposure at too young age to pornography, the reign of immediate pleasure and the individual king and finally, the big unspoken of this relationship which is nevertheless an inescapable of online and offline gender violence, the implantation, by millions, of young men in the mores and cultures openly hostile to women. but since this is the result of your policies, you keep quiet and prefer to blame the preference of little boys for football games. so, besides being crazy, you're cowards. online violence will only be solved by the appeasement of our societies. schools and families should be sanctuaries where the intellect can dialogue with benevolence. it is up to parents and carers not to abandon their role on the internet. but it is also up to politicians to act. we must put an end to the islamist gangrene which first strikes women and girls, who are reduced to consumption, then subjugated or destroyed. so stop your victim-incomprehensible chatter and act on the real if you want to protect the virtual.
for the greens/efa group madam president, yes, a state of the art of gender inequalities in the european union is essential, because these inequalities are still very numerous and unbearable. women earn on average 14% less per hour than men in the european union, parttime work is mainly for women, pensions for women are paltry, many live in immense poverty, and those from minorities, those with disabilities, those who are migrants live in even worse situations. when will there be a clear and defined way to go to court anywhere in the european union when a woman is paid less than a man for the same job? when will there be public policies and public budgets designed for women too, and not just to help massively, mainly male professions? on the sexual and reproductive rights side, six member states still refuse to ratify the istanbul convention, when will there be an effective right to contraception everywhere in the european union, easily accessible and free of charge? when will there be a sex education worthy of the name? when will malta follow ireland's lead and make its cultural revolution? when will there be a maltese politician who dares to say that abortion must be possible on this island as in the rest of the european union? on the representation side, the share of women in national parliaments has gone from 24% in 2010 to 32% in 2020, just 32%. and in culture and in economics, why are the great resistors, the great explorers, the great scientists everywhere always men? why have women been systematically erased from the history books? when will a little girl learn in school or on the streets that there are female role models, that women have dared and achieved everything throughout history and all over the world?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the uncorrected wage gap is due, among other things, to the increase in women working part-time, to sector-specific interests and to the increase in men working overtime. after this correction, there is a small percentage left for which we have no explanation. so, it could be discrimination. we condemn discrimination in all its forms, including discrimination on grounds of sex. and we are not so naive as to deny the existence of these problems. we also want to stress that a top-down approach from the eu is neither realistic nor desirable. each eu country has its own cultural traditions. in my country, the netherlands, for example, it is common to see fathers taking their children to school on bicycles. something that might seem very strange in another member state. we believe in individual freedom. everyone is free to make his or her life the way they choose. we cannot allow a super-feminist government in brussels to impose that. so despite the good intentions of my colleagues, we cannot vote for this report. it is not the eu's mandate to set standards for national labour or family law, or to pressure member states to sign international treaties. we must strive for equality of opportunity, not absolute equality. we can miss a finger raised from brussels as a toothache.
you are right that we need male champions, especially because we have such wonderful female champions as ms regner and ms fitzgerald.
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner, the situation is serious. gender equality has simply deteriorated in many eu countries and areas in recent months and years. it's exhausting, often tedious, being a woman. for example, unemployment in the european union rose from 6.9% in april to 7.9% in august 2020 - more than for men. women's lives have been severely affected by the covid-19 pandemic, despite the fact that women are the ones who keep society running and are engaged in the professions that are relevant to the system. and at the same time, we women have become partly invisible -- hardly visible on screens, much less present in public spaces. it is therefore high time for financial independence and more women at all levels. this crisis is a crisis of women, a crisis of women's faces. and that is how we must see it, at european level, for example by defining the european institute for gender equality (eige) as a priority agency and focusing on gender issues. it is simply unacceptable that we are once again very far from the goal of equality.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the 21st century and we are here again to debate inequality between women and men. it's too bad. at the current rate, we may achieve equality in three generations, and that's not counting the impact of covid-19 on equality, which we can't yet measure in full. we need a cultural revolution and a radical paradigm shift. this is an emergency! these inequalities and discriminations affect us all. women, but also men, must rise to the challenge so that their daughters, sisters or mothers do not have to suffer any kind of prejudice. moreover, it is demonstrated that gender equality would do the greatest good for economic growth in our countries. in 2021, we can no longer accept that a part of this house, elected by universal suffrage, supposed to represent women and men in our union, systematically votes against all the texts that could advance women's rights and reduce violence. the vote on this report will give us yet another glimpse of our assembly: on the one hand, a minority with a feminist façade in the service of a conservative or even medieval vision, and on the other hand, a progressive majority that wants to realize the great promise of classical democracy, which is equality.
madam president, i really regret that i cannot vote in favour of this text, that i cannot support the proposals on gender equality which, if they were not instrumentalised, should be unanimous. of course, i support the objectives of 'equal work, equal pay', better management of maternity leave, additional measures to deal with domestic violence or the fight against human trafficking. i regret, however, that there are some excesses in this text when it explicitly condemns traditional family values, defends the gender theory and condemns all opposition to these deviations. while i fully support equal access for women to the labour market and decision-making positions, i also regret that the role and choice of women who have chosen to be stay-at-home mothers or to work part-time is devalued. i am in favour of women's freedom of choice, to work, to be entrepreneurs, to pursue whatever activities they wish, that is to say, to devote more time to their families if that is their choice of life. i also note that, in listing the threats to women in europe, the text does not say a word about the threat posed by the spread of radical islam or its consequences. finally, the text calls for the european institutions to intervene in the organisation of care systems, social policies, education policies and even household taxation. these are all areas of action which are by their nature the responsibility of the member states and which, in our view, must remain so. it is above all this new federalist advance which we refuse to blindly endorse by our vote.
madam president, please. gender equality is a key issue in the shadow of the covid pandemic. we have seen with regret that the lockdowns at eu level, the economic disruption, have only increased insecurity and thus the gap between women and men. it is important to understand that the poorest, the most vulnerable to poverty - and particularly the roma in europe - are also disadvantaged in a similar way. there, in women, these differences, believe me, are even more striking, the proportions are more significant, and the problems are much more serious. we cannot ignore the rights of the poorest women. but here, in this report, not as an end but as a means, i feel that they are trying to emphasise ideological elements and we are very far from a solution. i think it is unacceptable and, as one of my colleagues has already said, beyond the scope of the commission to make them mandatory for the member states. since 2010, we have achieved a lot in hungary with tax incentives for mothers with many children or with the single family support system. please follow these.
madam president, gender equality is a core value of the european union, a fundamental right and the key principle of the development of the european pillar of social rights. we want to incorporate it into all our actions, into all future policy and into all the union's major challenges. we have been told by the european institute for gender equality that on a scale of zero to one hundred, europe scores sixty-eight points in equality; therefore, there is still a lot of work to be done. first of all, let us look at this debate and look at the house: almost all the speakers were women; the commissioner herself is a woman; the members who are here: we have mostly spoken as women... and this is not a debate about women, it is a debate about human rights, equality, values, the very heart of the union. if it were an economic debate, all our colleagues would be here, and it is as important or more important than economic issues. there are challenges in what economics is. we need an equal economy, because women have been on the front lines of the pandemic and have been very affected: they are the ones who lead and are overrepresented in the jobs with the lowest wages, in the most precarious jobs, in part-time jobs; they have had and continue to have a very difficult time later entering the world of work; they lead the unemployment rate, a difference of many points with the male sex; they lead part-time work, which is engaged in by 31% of women compared to 8% of men; they have the lowest pensions, with a very large difference in relation to their male counterparts ... i am not talking about the care leave that is taken for people. then we have to do something. we need coeducation, we need equality and we need equality to permeate all our actions: without equality there is no europe, no values, no future.
madam president! the treaties of rome established the principle of equal pay for equal work. 65 years later, we still have a problem. why would you do that? because most of the decisions are made by men. and if they don't understand that women should have a proper role in society, if they don't support our aspirations and our aspirations, then we can have dozens of conversations in this chamber, in national chambers, and 65 years from now, the problem will remain unresolved. in addition, the pandemic has slowed these upward trends in women's employment. more and more men -- and i say this with regret, because there are many great men, including politicians -- many men would see a woman in this social role in the kitchen, in the home, with the children, without ambition, because often many men cannot stand the fact that a woman is as good as a man, can occupy the same position and can run big companies or governments. look at the governments of the european union countries: how many women are there? it shows how far we have to go. i hope, however, that the directive we are working on will not be held up in the council, commissioner, as was the directive on women in management boards, because then we can really only continue to discuss it. this directive is absolutely, absolutely necessary. that is my appeal to all member states.
madam president, madam president, i wish the most influential people in the world could listen to this debate. what a fascinating debate, madam president. madam president, i would love to hear this debate in the presence of the most influential people. do you know who are the most influential people in the world according to forbes? michelle obama, ursula von der leyen, christine lagarde, kamala harris and hundreds of women around the world. hundreds of women around the world. we had our influential women decades ago, marie salomea skłodowska curie. we had the first country in europe, which allowed women to vote, what country was it? poland. now, if you want to learn what equality is, come to poland, because poland by the data, – its eurostat’s, it’s not our data – is number two. we are the second country with the highest number of women in management. the first is latvia and the second is poland. where is the eu? let me see, oh, 34%, more or less. there you are, very, very low. so if you want to learn, come to poland because that’s what it is. it’s not about creating ridiculous ideas, fighting against christmas. it’s about logic. and the logic is in poland.
i think finnish women had the right to vote and present themselves as candidates before women in poland.
madam president, madam commissioner, it is clear that we still have a lot of progress to make in the european union in terms of gender equality. but we will not achieve gender equality with guides who wish to replace 'ladies and gentlemen' with 'dear colleagues', or with caricatured statements, or with the pronoun 'ielle'. but there are things we can do. firstly, the vocational guidance of young women. there are still too many clichés. why are only 17% of women entering computer science? why are there so few women in the construction industry? in france, only 4.5% of painters and 0.31% of plumbers are women. attitudes have to change. in sectors where there is a severe shortage of labour, the european social fund or erasmus+ can help to 'orient more women towards these 'male' occupations which recruit. we can also take action to better support women in their professional careers. many are outraged by the low percentage of women in positions of responsibility or the high number of part-time workers. one of the main causes, as we know, is the difficulty of reconciling work and family life. and in this respect, the lack of facilities for young children is a real problem. how many women have had to put their careers on hold because of lack of childcare options? the european union, through its public policies, must continue to support the development of early childhood structures. finally, the european union can also act for equal pay, so that equal pay for equal work and equal responsibilities. i welcome the directive which parliament is currently working on so that states can impose deterrent fines on any employer who pays women less for the same work. so yes, here in parliament we can make progress, provided we propose concrete, feasible measures that are far removed from any ideological postures.
this conversation is over. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow, tuesday, 14 december 2021. the final vote will be delivered on wednesday, december 15, 2021.
the following is the agenda for the debate on the recommendation for a second reading on the council's first reading position on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on health technology assessment and amending directive 2011/24/eu (10531/3/2021 c90422/2021 - 2018/0018 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr tiemo wölken) (a9-0334/2021). i would like to remind you, however, that during this part-session there will be no requested speeches or blue card questions. i would also point out that, as in the recent partsession, the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states. i would also remind you that the speakers in the chamber still use the platform in the centre of the chamber. i urge you to follow the list of speakers and move closer to the podium as your time to speak begins.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it's not exactly christmas yet, but i think we can open a little present today. after almost four years of negotiations, eight eu council presidencies, 16 technical and three political trilogues, the time has come to: the final conclusion of the hta regulation in short: hta is imminent. as rapporteur, i would like to start by saying that this was a team effort. i would therefore like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, but also the commission, madam commissioner, for their constructive cooperation. the pandemic is still reminding us that we are stronger as europeans, together. it is important to share and pool our expertise, our resources. this pandemic shows the need for a strong, inclusive european health union. i am therefore pleased that with today's adoption of the hta regulation we are not only strengthening eu cooperation between member states, but also taking another step towards a health union. the new rules on health technology assessment will help healthcare decision-makers to decide whether a new medicine, medical device or diagnostic tool can be used. we're creating value for the patients. in a first step, we will not only test drugs to treat cancer, but also drugs for novel ... we can ensure that innovative medicines are evaluated at european level from the outset and avoid fragmentation of the market. sorry, i'm not feeling so well, so i want to stop here. i am going to sit down and i will continue at the end but, dear commissioner, thank you once again for being here and thank you very much for the good cooperation. i look forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am delighted to join you today to celebrate the long—awaited adoption of the regulation on health technology assessment (hta). in 2018, we presented our proposal for a regulation on health technology assessment in this house. three years and many meetings later – mr wölken listed the number of meetings – i am very pleased to be here to see the conclusion of this challenge, a very important process. i would also like to thank once again the rapporteur, tiemo wölken, and the european parliament for their very constructive approach and commitment to this file throughout the negotiations for the benefit of eu patients. this regulation represents the very first output of the pharmaceutical strategy for europe and is integral in ensuring a stronger european health union. it builds on many years of hard work by experts across the eu and the experience gathered during the three eu net hta joint actions, facilitating cooperation between member states. it provides a comprehensive and sustainable legal framework to make a much—needed step forward and it will deliver concrete benefits to our citizens, our member states and our healthcare systems. the hta regulation will enable high—quality joint clinical assessments of innovative medicines and some medical devices at eu level. it will secure inclusiveness and transparency in the health technology assessment process, and it will increase predictability for member states’ authorities and for industry. it will help member states to take more timely and evidence-based decisions on patient access to innovative technologies within healthcare systems. let me give you an example. the joint work will start by assessing cancer medicines and advanced therapies like gene therapies. these are the type of products which are scientifically complex to assess and, at the same time, so very challenging to ensure access to across the eu. pooling resources and expertise will be key to support all member states in their national decisions and negotiations. while the text of the regulation changed throughout the negotiations, the final compromise maintains the key elements of the commission proposal, which the european parliament shared and supported. the joint work will target the scientific clinical aspects of health technology assessment. the national health technology assessment bodies will drive the joint work, and the joint work will be of the highest quality, provided in a timely manner and produced following inclusive and transparent procedures. i want to stress the point on inclusiveness and transparency, which i know was especially important to this parliament. you were determined to ensure that the involvement of external experts and stakeholder organisations was well reflected in the final compromise. so i am truly very pleased with the outcome, as the general involvement of stakeholders in the hta process is essential to ensure the quality of work. i want to close by highlighting two important points. first, this is about patients and improving access to innovative technology. and second, with this regulation we’re building a new type of cooperation in health among member states. more than ever, the current pandemic has underlined the need for enhanced cooperation between member states, and this regulation reflects and responds to that need. it is another important step towards a stronger european health union. with this regulation, we are giving health experts, producers, and most importantly of all, patients, a new framework that will help us to address unmet medical needs and facilitate access to innovative medicines and medical devices. i want once again to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and every member of the parliament for supporting this, and i look forward to continuing working together to ensure the new rules are successfully implemented in a timely manner.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to reiterate my sincere congratulations to our rapporteur and wish him a good recovery. today, in europe, no fewer than 50 national agencies assess the added value of a new medicine that is brought to the market. this fragmented approach has a negative impact on research and development, on the speed of approval processes and on equal access to care for europeans. the regulation we will adopt this week is a first step towards harmonising these evaluation systems. so, of course, we would have liked to go further, the initial objective being to have only one european evaluation. if the member states wished to retain their national agencies, this regulation will eventually make innovative medicines available everywhere in europe, at the same time and to all citizens. it will help the two and a half million europeans who are affected by cancer every year, for example. these patients may not have access to new treatments that are available in the neighbouring member state but are unavailable or not authorised in their own member state. it will also be the same for the 7 to 8 million french people who suffer from severe migraines and who see some new generation medicines approved and reimbursed in germany or italy, but not in france. thanks to the european parliament, anticancer drugs are the first technologies to benefit from this regulation. then we will have orphan drugs and all treatments by 2030. enabling access to medical innovation throughout europe is a priority and this priority is part of a much broader challenge of equal access to care for all europeans. during the health crisis, the mass procurement of vaccines has addressed this issue and reminded each of us of its importance. equal access to care for all europeans means being able to get treatment anywhere in europe, knowing where it is available and how to get it, being able to be treated anywhere in europe by qualified professionals. this is the aim of the regulation and because it meets the most basic needs of patients, it is a major step forward for health in europe.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason why the added value of any medicinal product should differ between two member states for the same medical situation. however, after registration by the european medicines agency, health products are subject to a simultaneous, but non-convergent, evaluation in the 27 eu countries. this lack of consultation generates unnecessary costs for the 27 countries, a risk of inequality linked to different economic concerns, but above all, given the repetitive bureaucratic burden 27 times for the same healthcare industry, a delay in making innovations available to patients. the new health technology assessment regulation has finally been brought out of the shadows thanks to the efforts of the commission, the portuguese presidency of the council and above all this parliament, and thanks to tiemo wölken for his determination. this regulation will finally allow for the start of joint evaluations centred on science. unfortunately not before 2024, and unfortunately not for all innovations, but it is a very important first step for the europe of medicines. there is also no reason why the price of a medicine should differ from one country to another. and this first step is the virtuous circle through which the european union can not only evaluate, but also negotiate with one voice and jointly for health products at their fair price, on the model of what we have achieved for vaccines.
madam president, in recent weeks, the european union territories of the west indies, guadeloupe and martinique have experienced episodes of violent opposition to health policy amid social crisis. these are the first eu territories to be burned because of the vaccination requirement and the health pass. i say to you as the member of the european parliament for the overseas countries: this is a turning point and an important sign of the state of exhaustion of the population, after almost two years of restrictions and deprivation. in the face of what appears to be a leakage with increasing doses and threats of re-confinement, we feel that in certain territories or with certain categories of citizens, the situation may change at any time. i would like to ask you to be careful that my fellow guadeloupians and martiniquans do not become the initiators of a wider dispute. let's discuss, respect the concerns, adapt the system to local and sectoral realities. that is how we will calm the situation and the citizens of the union.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on open and fair markets in the digital sector (digital markets act) (com2020) 0842 - c9-0419/2020 - 2020/0374 (cod)) (a9-0332/2021). i would remind the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in recent part-sessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind the honourable members that the speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the centre stage. so please keep your eyes on the list of speakers and look toward the platform as the time for your talk approaches. i would like to invite rapporteur andreas schwab to address and introduce this topic.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we're setting a strong signal today. with the digital markets act, we are ensuring that the basic principles of the social market economy are applied across europe in the digital age. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the european commission will no longer chase after the big tech companies as it did in the past, but will have to give the green light in advance if the world's biggest companies want to launch new business models. we can do this, ladies and gentlemen, because we can concentrate on the big ones and the small ones can continue to tinker and invent without fear of bureaucratic red tape. we want all citizens to be able to benefit from developments in the digital sector. so we've included the web browsers in the application area, as well as the virtual assistants. we will also ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that so-called killer acquisitions are examined in future, even if the thresholds are not reached. we do not want the companies to buy the market, as the economic committee has proposed. we want companies to take over the market with good ideas. in short, we say to the address of the very big: game over. we want to do this, and the digital markets act specifically states that the national authorities, together with the european commission, should monitor the rules and their compliance. we want to see the rules enforced uniformly in europe, through the european commission. and i want to make this very clear: madam vice-president, commissioner, the expectations for greater justice in the digital world are immense. but you have the full support of this house for this and for a courageous intervention. the digital markets act and the majority that passed it are clear evidence of this. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank all the colleagues who contributed to the compromise: the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs of the committees on economic and industrial affairs, the staff and the political groups and their members. you and all your staff have helped to get us to where we are today, with a law that passed through the european parliament faster than through the council of ministers. and yes, it's true, we have a little more courage than the council. we want to try to move forward in the area of interoperability, in messaging services and also in social media, and to do this without compromising privacy and cyber security. we want to strengthen compliance with the general data protection regulation in the area of personalised advertising and also to enforce it from a competitive point of view and to do so in a uniform way throughout europe, in other words, differently from what has been done so far. we have therefore gathered the best ideas from over a thousand proposals submitted by our colleagues in this house and put them together in a single document. and we are confident that with the council we can achieve what we have set out to do. we need more energy and strength now, because we will be discussing this with the french presidency in january. but if we continue as we have been doing, ladies and gentlemen, we can do it in the interests of all the citizens of europe. and i think that the digital markets act will then find acceptance far beyond europe. and that would not only help the citizens of europe. it would help to make fair competition a concept that we export from europe to the world, with the aim of creating fairness and equity in digital markets. in this spirit, ladies and gentlemen, i wish you all a merry christmas and i hope that next year we will achieve together what we have set out to do.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, madam executive vice-president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, eleven years is the time that elapsed between the complaint lodged by google's competitors and the decision of the general court of the european union which upheld the fine imposed for abuse of a dominant position. twelve months is barely the time it took us to finalise one of the biggest regulations of the coming decades: that of the digital giants. with the digital markets act, the dma, we will finally meet the limits of our competition law, which is too slow, unsuited to the challenges of the digital age. we have become addicted, too addicted to these platforms and their sprawling networks, addicted to their terms of use, addicted to their willingness to allow or not allow access to markets, addicted to their rules of the game. it's over now. we will empower the european commission to prevent rather than cure with a clear list of obligations and prohibitions. we set the rules, right from the start, without having to fight off armies of lawyers for years. so no, the innovation capacity of our continent is not limited to five companies. no, data is not the monopoly of a handful of private companies. they're ours. yes, our startups may have other goals than being bought by five american companies. in the face of these data ogres, let us organize our resources now, rethink how we use data, and continue to set an example for other jurisdictions around the world. let's keep pioneering the digital.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, today, of the 20 largest global companies in the digital sector, only one is european. it's the german company sap. as you know, the digital giants of silicon valley, google, amazon, facebook, apple and microsoft, the gafam, control almost the entire digital sector in europe. for years, gafam has abused its monopoly power, taking advantage of neoliberal dogma and the laxity of the commission: irish digital dumping, transfer of european data to the united states, authorization of the purchase of instagram by facebook, the big american technology companies have bought or stifled any potential european rival. for a long time we were the only ones talking about strategic autonomy and a year ago the commission finally proposed the digital markets regulation, the dma. the proposal was, as always, too late, too weak and too inadequate. on behalf of the id group, i have advocated for much stronger measures against the digital giants. the fine for the gafams could be up to 20% of their total turnover. in the event of serious infringements, the dismantling of the largest companies will now be possible. we also insisted on the freedom of payment and the interoperability of social networks. and on my initiative, and i congratulate the rapporteur, the dma includes a provision on whistleblowers. this will protect whistleblowers like frances haugen when they report abuses by the digital giants. this will help brussels to prevent the acquisition of lethal weapons. we'll see if she does. since the gafam has ignored the brussels administration so far, i even called for personal sanctions against the leaders in case of serious and intentional failure. if europe is to regain its strategic autonomy, the commission and states such as france will have to show a real willingness to act. it's a first step. we want to go further. to develop a european industrial and technological base in the digital sector, a priority for local or european production is needed in public procurement in europe. but why do you not want the national and european preference, ladies and gentlemen? yes, let us dare to reserve a cloud quota and jobs for europeans in europe. we dare to insist that the data of european citizens be processed preferably in europe. we are here in strasbourg, the capital of the christmas market, and i would also like to take this opportunity to wish you all a merry christmas.
madam president, our personal data is the new gold mine. our navigation data, our geolocation data, our age, our gender, our preferences, our political, religious, sexual orientation, our personal health data: whole chunks of our privacy are being collected, fed to companies whose business model is based on violating our privacy. i mean, of course, facebook, amazon and the like. not only do they capture huge amounts of personal data, they also shape our entire behaviour and thinking, sometimes even our voting record. the first is the commercial advertising, now the political advertising, with considerable risks to the proper functioning of our democracies. what gafams are selling, beyond our data, is our future behavior. our data is not a commodity and internet users do not want this invasive spanking in their private space. so let's stop these attacks on our free will, on our democracy and let's put an end to this surveillance and influence capitalism.
madam president, we do not want our online experiences to be dictated by the unfair practices of a handful of big tech companies. their current dominance means that what we see online, who we interact with, and how our data is or isn’t protected is mostly controlled by a group of profit—driven companies, many being bigger in size than european countries. the digital markets act (dma) could have gone further but still, as it stands, this report will allow us to take back control and strive for more democracy online. we will be able to choose which apps we install on our devices, but mostly it will stop gatekeepers from secretly reusing people’s data across their different services. we greens/efa /pirates have called for the protection of users throughout the process. fundamental rights must continue to be the priority.
in writing. – the digital world is evolving very rapidly and it is difficult to be regulated with the old rules and by analogy. the digital markets act will be our opportunity to shape the digital economy, not only at eu level, but also to make it a golden standard for the rest of the world. the digital technologies often creates situation where certain actors can easily gain monopolistic positions on the markets, especially new ones. in the digital world a monopolistic position is even more dangerous. because the big tech entities comprise several groups of services, they are ecosystems of their own, while all other traditional businesses become more and more dependent on digital platforms to operate and sell. these platforms intermediate the majority of transactions between end users and business users. this gives them opportunity to twist the rules of certain markets to their advantage, but also promote self-preference and gain unfair advantage from the combination of users’ data from all their services. that is why we in the ppe group want strong and clear rules and mechanisms which ensure that the gatekeepers cannot undermine competition. we need faster procedures and sanctions for those who repeatedly fail to comply.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs sabine verheyen, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the european year of youth 2022 (com (2021) 0634 c9-0379/2021 2021/0328 cod)) (a9-0322/2021). i would remind members that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this session and that no blue cards are accepted. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the ongoing covid-19 pandemic continues to disproportionately affect young people. at such an important stage in their development, their youth, social life has at first been completely suspended and is still limited. at the same time, they face the challenge of continuing their education, entering the labour market and maintaining their social and economic lives. it is the social interaction which shapes young people. corona prevents young people from meeting their friends, making new acquaintances and exploring other countries. these restrictions have been accepted by the young people out of solidarity and they have been determined to cooperate. now it's time we put them in the spotlight. that is why i am very pleased that the year 2022 will now be dedicated to them as the european year of youth. we 're showing: youth is a priority in europe. this year will lay the foundation to give them a platform to be heard even more. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we need the commitment and participation of the entire young generation to create and build a better, greener, more digital and inclusive future in europe. the european year of youth initiative aims to give young people the chance to help shape the future of europe and thus help them to have better future prospects. through a variety of activities and events, we will bring politics and political issues closer to all young people, especially those with fewer opportunities to engage in civic and political life. eur 8 million of fresh money was made available through the increase in the erasmus+ and european solidarity corps programmes specifically for this year. in addition, activities may be supported and financed by other funds appropriate to the theme. this year's focus will be on issues that are of particular concern to young people, such as equality, inclusion, the environment, climate change, sustainability, mental health, jobs, internships and the fair pay framework. i am all the more pleased that we have been able to ensure that the young people will be the protagonists this year. it has also ensured that they are structurally involved in planning and implementation. the european year of youth is a project not only of traditional youth policy but of all policy areas. and so already many levels have signaled their willingness to be part of this year. and so i also ask all the committees of this house to give the young generation a platform to discuss the issues that are up and coming in a suitable format, to take them seriously and to actively involve them in the discussion. if we do this year the right way, we can do a lot to emerge stronger from the pandemic. to do this, we need cooperation and support at all levels: local, regional, national and european. there is still much to be done and much to be done to ensure that the european year of youth really reaches out to young people on the ground throughout europe, has an impact and is experienced. many people are still unaware of the existence of this european year of youth. it is also our task to ensure that this year is really brought into every city, every village, every place everywhere, to bring attention to the needs and the needs of the young generation. let us make 2022 a true european year of youth!
the european year of youth coincides with the conference on the future of europe. no future without youth! that is why it is so important that we also link the european year of youth to the future of europe. the conference on the future of europe will not succeed without the participation of young people.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a week ago the european parliament and the council reached a political agreement to make 2022 the european year of youth. i am pleased that our joint efforts have made this ambitious compromise possible less than three months after president von der leyen's announcement. it is also, and above all, a practical answer to the questions of young people today. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs verheyen, the non-attached rapporteurs and all the members of the committee on culture and education for their hard work. how can you open up to the world when the world around you is closed? how to live your best years despite restrictive health measures? for almost two years, our young people have had to sacrifice key moments of their youth. this period of building takes place, whether in school classrooms, apprenticeship workshops, university amphitheatres or sports grounds. despite this difficult context, they have proved to be formidable agents of change, bearers of values and demanders of concrete political action. some of the young people have already been clear on the climate issue: young people want concrete action. the european year of youth aims to better listen to, involve and support young people in our political actions. first, listen, because over the past two years, our young people have been deprived of educational and mobility opportunities, their entry into the labour market has been delayed, they have suffered from increasing rates of anxiety and depression, and yet they have continued to speak out and show interest in shaping the future. secondly, involving, when we want to inspire young people to be a force for change and active actors in political life. young people are the bearers of ideas for building the future, a future they want to be greener, more digital and even more inclusive. and finally support, because strongly affected by the covid-19 crisis, at a time when they should have experienced life in society, young people need more than ever to feel that we are by their side. listen, involve and support: this is what defines the context and spirit of the european year of youth. the survey we launched at the end of october in all the languages of the european union on the european youth portal confirms this. almost 60% of respondents want climate change to be a key theme of the year. with the european year of youth, we propose a paradigm shift. it is an incentive to systematically take the perspective of young people into account in our political action and to give a concrete response to their vision. young people are asking for their perspectives and ideas to be included in public policies. in our survey, more than one in two respondents said they would like to actively contribute to the european year of youth, a crucial initiative to generate a new european dynamism. a key principle of the year is co-creation, which aims to involve all parties in the design and implementation of the year. we hear young people everywhere, the stakeholders in the youth sector at european, national, regional and local level, the member states, all the commission services, the other institutions and here in particular the european parliament in the design and implementation of the year's activities, and i am convinced that its success will depend largely on your active mobilisation and contribution. ladies and gentlemen, rest assured that we share parliament's ambition to make this european year of youth a successful year, one that is both concrete and ambitious, inclusive and with a long-term impact. firstly, the european year of youth will cover a wide range of areas: employment, education, health, climate, digital. we want it to cover all eu policies and, of course, to go hand in hand with the implementation of the nextgenerationeu stimulus plan. the year must be resolutely inclusive. that is why, i insist, our ambition is to reach and involve all young people. the year is aimed at young people of all ages, from all social backgrounds, from all parts of europe, and those with fewer opportunities, including those in rural areas or overseas territories. co-creation, inclusion and action are therefore some of the key principles that define the spirit of the european year of youth. our young people deserve concrete action and we welcome the outcome of the political trilogue and the compromises reached, particularly with regard to the mainstreaming objective, governance and the budget for the year. we remain convinced that this is a significant budget which will serve the objectives of the european year. the commission is already busy updating the mapping of the programmes contributing to the european youth year budget. to this end, we are in regular contact with all our departments and will keep you regularly informed of the next update. finally, i remain convinced that, through its broad scope and its inclusive character, the european year of youth will make a difference in the lives of all young people, and that is the objective we are setting ourselves. i am sure that the european parliament shares this view. thank you for your ideas, your comments and your listening.
for the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three months ago here, the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, announced that from 1 january 2022 there would be a european youth year, and three months later we have legislation to make that happen. and i want to thank the commissioner, the rapporteur and all those who helped make this happen. our common goal is to support, encourage young people who have been most affected by covid-19, the pandemic, lockdown, inability to travel, study, in short, to live a normal life. the european youth year should be about renewing the perspective for young people, while ensuring equal opportunities for all, including those who may not have been so lucky in life. i would also like to welcome the increase of the budget for next year in both the erasmus+ programme and the european solidarity corps by eur 5 million and eur 3 million respectively. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european solidarity corps by the european parliament and the council, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the treaty on european union. with co-financing from other european union programmes, it will be possible to use this money for the needs of young people in social and other areas as well. i hope that the challenges in the erasmus+ programmes, the european solidarity corps will be available as early as next year. the european youth year therefore offers a range of activities for young people across europe, and in its implementation, disadvantaged young people should not be forgotten for their successful start in life. i want to thank everyone and i expect that next year we will balance the good results here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european year of youth 2022 comes at the right time, if the expectations that are set in the year are actually fulfilled at the end. because it can't be about having a few nice events and events with young people in the next 12 months and that's it. this year is the chance to finally give unpaid internships the necessary pushback. the european parliament has already called for this in two resolutions and has asked the commission to submit proposals to this effect. it is an opportunity to give greater weight to the value of youth work and informal and non-formal education. it is the chance not only to talk about participation all the time, but also to actually live it, and to finally implement systematically the wishes and demands that have been articulated to us in the existing eu youth dialogue. we now have the opportunity to make a significant contribution to the automatic mutual recognition of learning time and thus stimulate the desired mobility in education. let us take the opportunity to make our entire european policy more youth-friendly. the legal framework is now in place. it is now up to us above all to make the european year a success. we all have a duty to meet the high expectations of young people. the pandemic and the measures taken to combat it have taken a heavy toll on young people in particular, robbing them of a part of their childhood and youth. it is up to us to make up for this, at least in part, by means of good policies that put children and young people at the centre of our actions. i hope for a great success this year, and it's really up to us.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, 2022 will be the european year of youth. what a wonderful news, what a sign of hope! the work of the european parliament, which has brought the negotiations to a successful conclusion in record time, with real victories, must be commended. we have a consolidated budget. we have secured the contribution of all the major european programmes to put youth at the heart of european policies. we got the young people in the action and we got this year 2022 to have a sequel. this is just the beginning. now we must make the european year a landmark year and an effective one. 2022 must give back to young people the opportunities lost due to the pandemic. all areas of their lives need to be considered: access to employment, training, their mental health, existing eu programmes - and i would like to highlight the effort that has been made for erasmus+, to open it up more and make it more accessible - and climate change, of course. finally and most importantly, how can we guarantee them that the european union will remain a great democratic space while justice, the media, access to abortion, lgbt rights are threatened in some european countries? to succeed, everyone must be involved, and i am thinking in particular of the cities and regions which have a major role to play in bringing this european year closer. this european year of youth should not be a year of communication, but a year of action which must have a follow-up. i am counting on the commission. parliament and i will see to it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i congratulate the rapporteur and my fellow fictitious rapporteurs on the work we have done together to finally declare 2022 the european year of youth. i started these negotiations with one goal in mind: that this year should not be a communication exercise, a festival here, a conference there, where politicians repeat that our young people are an inspiration, that europe's future is better than this. i want to see action to illustrate the good words and promises, and this will was widely shared, which allowed us to reach a good agreement. i fought for an inclusive year that promotes gender equality and puts the most marginalized people at the centre. a year that strengthens cooperation and dialogue with our young neighbours in europe. a year that not only celebrates young people, but calls for their active contribution. i also heard the strong demand from young people to end unpaid traineeships. i would have liked to see this request put into practice during the european year of youth. i am not giving up, however, and i will continue to push this issue forward and fight to end it. we will also ensure that the commission and the member states honour their commitments. i would like to make a special appeal to the french presidency of the council of the eu, which will hold half of this year, and to the conclusion of the conference on the future of europe. our young people have been talking to us, screaming for years. some of us are listening, but not enough of us. you should join us. we must seize this opportunity to make this year of youth the launch of a positive policy change to have a lasting impact on the lives, health and future of young people affected by covid-19. let us celebrate our young people and give them the means to tell us the europe they want and to live their youth to the full.
mr president, madam commissioner, i can of course only join in the previous speeches and thank the negotiators for reaching agreement so quickly on the european year of youth 2022. young europeans are the engine of tomorrow's europe, but the covid-19 crisis has put a damper on their momentum. between lockdown and sanitation measures, some may experience isolation, withdrawal or even insecurity. this european year of youth must therefore be an opportunity to make their voices heard, to involve them in our initiatives and to guide our actions. one of the main objectives of this year - which is of particular concern to everyone in the committee on petitions - is the participation of young people in the decision-making process of the european union. the right to petition, the european citizens' initiative and the right to refer cases to the european ombudsman should be tools in their hands to enable them to become more involved in the life of the european union. as meps, we have a key role to play in helping young people to gain a better understanding of the various opportunities open to them, whether at european, national, regional or local level. i am also thinking of the erasmus+ programme, which will celebrate its 35th anniversary in 2022 and which will play a central role in implementing and financing the activities of this european year of youth. as the french presidency of the european union begins in january 2022, i will be fully committed to our youth to make this year a real success. the actions we will put in place should not be limited to the year 2022, because young people are our priority and our future.
madam president, it is sad to hear and sad to say, but in europe, in french political life and even in this house, there are still, there are still useful idiots. this is a phrase coined by lenin and which has apparently survived him. in france, jean-luc mélenchon, like eric zemmour, the far left and the far right, both candidates for the presidential election, repeat the elements of the kremlin's language on ukraine. for them, there are no russian troops massed on the border. for them, russia is right to be angry with nato, which has not kept its promises. not a word about the annexation of crimea, nothing about donbass, silence on the extortions of mercenaries, on massive disinformation, no respect for the aspirations of the ukrainian people, nothing. in this house, the national assembly has accustomed us to debating vladimir putin's arguments with as much eagerness as enthusiasm. the crimea? no problem for thierry mariani and his friends, she's russian, and they go there often. i'd like to give russia today a piece of advice: you can save money and close your offices in europe. some european politicians do your job for you perfectly. a systematic propaganda work by the kremlin. and i would like to say to ukraine not to worry, at least as long as these useful idiots remain a minority in europe, and they absolutely must remain a minority. we, the worthy majority of this european parliament, are firmly behind kiev in its aspirations for democracy, independence and territorial integrity. the time of imperialism and subjugated regimes is over.
madam president, i have searched in vain for the ukrainian territory that is now occupied by russia, mrs loiseau. yes, there is a territory, crimea, where the people chose in 2014 to join russia through a referendum won by an overwhelming majority. in fact, have you seen, mrs loiseau, a massive wave of migration from crimea sweeping across europe? no, i'm not going. why would you do that? you know this very well, because this referendum reflected the will of the majority of the population. in eastern ukraine, where the population has risen up against the government in kiev, people are waiting for the minsk agreements granting them special status within ukraine to be finally respected. yes, we all know there was a way to defuse this ukrainian conflict. this solution was the outright implementation of the minsk agreements negotiated by mrs merkel and mr hollande. unfortunately, they have always remained a dead letter. everyone knows that the ukrainian government and the rada had no intention of applying them and, logically, russia has also shown no greater eagerness to apply them. for example, the ukrainian government has still not made any move to fulfill its promises in the donbass, namely the establishment of a status guaranteeing greater autonomy. today, worse, ukraine is taking up the most bellicose of all accents against the russians. do you need to be reminded that some supporters of the ukrainian government have blood on their hands? the blood of dozens of victims of the fire at the trade union house in odessa in may 2014 has been passed over in silence. the blood of those beaten to death by the nostalgic militias of mr. bandera, a notorious nazi sympathizer. should we remind that the crisis in donbass was triggered by the decision of the government of mr. poroshenko to suppress the regional languages in 2014, russian, but also hungarian, romanian and even crimean tatar? today, 13,000 ukrainians, regardless of their ideology, have lost their lives in this conflict. the european union must stop hiding its face in ukraine. the latest report of the court of auditors of the european union begins with the words: 'ukraine is undermined by high levels of corruption'. president zelensky, who is failing at chess, is also playing on the rising tensions to save what little popularity he has left. censorship of the press, denunciation of false coups d'état: it is obvious that one is ready to do anything to secure one's position. the only way to achieve peace is to respect the minsk agreements. this is the respect that the european union should demand from all parties to avoid a new war. and that's the respect you mock, no matter what you say.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not go back on what so many of you have already said, well said and rightly said, about russian military gestures on the border with ukraine. i would rather draw your attention to the negotiation being sought between the atlantic alliance and russia. a negotiation between the alliance and russia is being sought. so if this negotiation, or even these discussions, were to open up, what would we have to say to mr putin? well, we'd have to say, do you have any security concerns? yes, maybe, very well, but we have some too, and we have some because you're the one who annexed crimea. because you brought the war to eastern ukraine. because you're the one who de facto annexed two parts of georgia. because you are the ones who are sowing instability on the continent of europe. so mr. putin, you want to talk about security guarantees? all right, let's talk about this. but what guarantees of non-aggression and non-interference in their internal affairs do you offer to your immediate neighbours, such as ukraine, georgia, moldova, belarus, mr putin, belarus? so, yes, these negotiations are about to begin. that is good news, and we should be glad of it. but let us recall the terms and remind mr putin of them.
madam president, we have imposed a series of sanctions, but the truth is that those measures have failed to deliver results, and the current situation shows that we have failed to learn the lessons. we cannot underestimate this threat, because the number of russian troops and equipment being brought to the border is huge. six years after the minsk ii peace plan was signed to stop the fighting in ukraine’s donbas region, it is clear that the minsk protocol has reached a dead end. yes, words do not have much meaning unless followed by actions. the european union and the united states must agree on further joint actions and be ready for all possible scenarios. this is the only way to prevent the worst case scenario. changing european borders by force would have political and economic consequences. therefore, i call for a peaceful solution and russian re—engagement in the normandy format.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i had planned to make a speech, but it is no longer necessary because after hearing mr mariani and mr krah, the french far right and the german far right, it is time to come here and say how much we have had enough. we're sick of these useful idiots from the kremlin coming in here and talking about russian propaganda every time. putin invades georgia, it is the fault of the georgians. putin annexed crimea, it's the fault of the ukrainians. putin threatens ukraine again, it's the fault of the ukrainians again. it is never vladimir putin's fault. in fact, the european far right has absolutely nothing to do with the law of nations. it claims to be sovereign and nationalist, but this extreme right is actually only in the service of the international financed and sponsored by vladimir putin. you no longer have the right to call yourselves patriots: even when putin interferes in our affairs, threatens our democracies, attacks our hospitals, you defend him. you are finally putting russia's interests ahead of europe's. one day, the voters will understand and make you pay.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, first of all i’d like to acknowledge the work of mr neuser, not just in this report, but in his contribution to this house over the last decade. his report, i think, is part of an appropriate period of reflection and response, which follows each successive humanitarian crisis. it’s happened over the last 15 years, whether it is the cluster system and the cerf that followed the situation of the tsunami, whether it was the transformative agenda that followed on from haiti, or the grand bargain referred to earlier by the commissioner that followed both syria and ebola. now we’re in another period where it’s appropriate to have response and reflection. but the one thing i would encourage the commissioner not to do is to merely respond to the last crisis, and that is what we’ve done in the past. this is evidenced by the fact that our instrument, the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) – global europe, is inappropriate for the afghanistan response, and that’s why we have humanitarian plus. so i would encourage a strategic approach and an approach based on foresight, not hindsight. i’d like to say a few words in my native language, if i may. an féidir leis an aontas eorpach difríocht a dhéanamh? sílim gur féidir leis ach tá dhá leasú mhóra ag teastáil. ar an gcéad dul síos, ní mór don aontas agus do na ballstáit airgead a chur ar an mbord. is mór-dheontóir daonnúil an taontas eorpach agus a bhallstáit, ach sa bhliain 2021, ní dhearnadh ach leath de na geallúintí daonnúla domhanda a íoc amach. is maith an rud é gur mhéadaigh an coimisiún eorpach a bhuiséad cabhrach daonnúla ó €900 milliún go €1.4 billiún sa bhliain 2020. ar an dara dul síos, ní mór córas daonnúil an aontais a bheith oiriúnach dá fheidhm agus tá riachtanais dhaonnúla oiriúnaithe dá réir.
for the greens/efa group mr president, first of all, thank you to the rapporteurs. the report we are adopting today comes at a crucial moment. humanitarian aid faces many challenges. in addition to the ever-increasing number of conflicts, climate change will increase the need for humanitarian aid. the current drought and famine in madagascar is a striking example of this. and this is just the beginning. today's world is fragile and the needs are enormous. what can you do about it? we must prevent as much as possible, through our development aid policy. we need to work with vulnerable populations and indigenous communities to help them build resilience to climate change. the european union and its member states are the main contributors to humanitarian aid, but the lack of funding is becoming more and more felt. we need to increase our contribution and provide a strong annual budget for humanitarian aid. we need to strengthen our coordination with other donors and ensure that humanitarian aid is financed in a predictable and flexible manner. women and girls are often the hardest hit in crises. specific action is needed for them, as they also have a central role to play in resolving humanitarian crises. finally, humanitarian aid must remain firmly rooted in its principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. this is true of eu action, but we must be vigilant against exploitation when private actors finance humanitarian aid. we have to act now.
mr president, commissioner, at this very moment in west africa, in the indian ocean, in southern madagascar, almost a million men, women and children are being devastated by a terrible famine: there is no water, the drought is burning the soil, nothing grows and there is nothing to eat. over 70,000 children are starving and they're being fed a mixture of cactus and ash to try to keep them alive. europe is already intervening, but in madagascar as elsewhere, emergencies must be dealt with. we must also tackle the causes. and even if it is not the direct trigger of humanitarian disasters, climate change is systematically exacerbating existing failures. we have spoken a lot about solidarity, but i want to stress our responsibility. our partners are our neighbors, they are also our brothers, so their suffering is our suffering too.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, of course i share the concerns of the previous speakers: the fight against crime in the balkans is a priority. but where i cannot follow them is the reasoning that without a european perspective we cannot effectively and sustainably fight the mafias in this region. firstly, because this argument opens the door to an unlimited enlargement of the european union. tomorrow, which will prevent the people of the caucasus or anatolia from saying "if we do not enter the european union, crime will explode in our country". secondly, because this report, which deals with a very concrete subject, the organized crime in the balkans which is ruining the lives of so many of our compatriots, has been treated - as is often the case in this parliament - from an ideological point of view. this disconnection from reality is not the only weakness of the report. the fight against crime is being used to obtain international recognition for kosovo, whereas the will of the member states of the european union, contrary to historical reality, is opposed to such recognition. i ask a simple question: has the recognition of montenegro made it possible to combat organised crime and its links with the authorities? i would like to ask another question: has the entry into the european union stopped the roma mafias from a number of our countries? it is not, of course, a question of fighting crime, but of advancing an ideological agenda through this report. and then there is a big omission in this text, the balkan migration route: how can we tackle the subject of fighting crime in this region without mentioning the balkan migration route and the turkish influences that reign there? how can we abandon the external borders of the european union in croatia, when they are so regularly mentioned? vengeful actions and kosovo-albanian networks are holding europeans hostage - it has been said: settling accounts, the continuous flow of drugs, modern slavery, the exploitation of women, organ trafficking are a scourge for our nations. these tragedies deserve better than a petition of ideological principle. yes to the fight against the mafias, but no to their being used to bring certain countries into the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. millions and millions of people in this world are threatened by acute famine. we know for a fact that hundreds of thousands of additional children will die because covid-19 is exacerbating the hunger crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, i am grateful to you for being a strong voice, for supporting a strong initiative, for finally getting to work and finally fighting against it. it is a commandment of humanity. but it is also a requirement of our common interest in survival, because only in societies where hunger is fought, only in societies where inequality is fought, can we develop the full potential to have a good time together, to build a good future. the agreements must be implemented swiftly, with protection for the poorest, with the fight against child mortality and with aid for farmers in the global south who want to and can contribute to overcoming the disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, nutrition is the basis of life and a precondition for the development of societies. good nutrition, as we know, is an accelerator of all the sustainable development goals and determines an individual’s health, the effectiveness of education, a person’s ability to find decent work, to innovate and to take care of one’s environment. malnutrition is not only the opposite of development, it is the opposite of living. nowadays, in the development sphere, we talk a lot about how to propel the digital and green transitions in developing countries. but i wonder, is it worth talking about such lofty ambitions when 800 million people in the world are hungry and 45 million people are on the brink of famine, and, as was mentioned earlier, 150 million children in the world are stunted? eur 27 billion was committed by donors at last week’s nutrition for growth summit. the eu really led that, and it was a tremendous achievement. it was morally commendable, and it was smart. for every dollar invested in nutrition, usd 16 is returned to the local economy, and investing could increase african gdp by 15%. if we want to achieve the sustainable development goals by 2030, or even to make a difference in the world, nutrition is clearly a good place to start. it’s easy to make commitments, however. it is less easy to honour them. it’s deeply disappointing that just 42% of the financial commitments made at the last summit were actually honoured. of course, the pandemic redirected global resources, but this lack of follow through is also down to the absence of political will and proper implementation. the international architecture for channelling donations is simply dysfunctional. the last time the eu designed a strategy for nutrition and food security was in 2014 with the eu’s action plan on nutrition, and it is high time for a new targeted eu strategy with concrete measures for achieving sdg 2, zero hunger by 2030.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what are the real challenges of a world summit on food security? to halt the dynamic that is increasingly undermining access to food for more and more citizens. the number of victims is 770 million, the main victims being children and peasants. as we see more and more obesity in the north, more and more hunger in the south, is it not urgent to get out of the cold arithmetical approaches that show their limits and demonstrate how the notion of sharing has been neglected for far too long? european public policies encouraging export agriculture and favouring dumping situations only exacerbate these dramatic findings. the european union's values of solidarity and fraternity must be brought into this debate so that the primary need to be able to feed everyone, fairly and healthily, is at the heart of our agricultural development strategies and cooperation with the countries of the south. only the concept of food sovereignty, as defined by via campesina, offers this virtuous approach, but it requires that the great forgotten people of this summit be involved in its construction: citizens, farmers. europe must therefore build the hope of this necessary food sovereignty by daring to review the international trade system imposed by the wto, by daring to effectively support the emergence of food crops, by daring to give back the political weight and the means to the various united nations bodies, the world food programme, to have security stocks. so, beyond the food dimension, peace, the will at the origin of the european construction, will only be achieved at this price.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, never in history has the world been so rich and i think we can also say that we have reached a very high level of human civilization. and yet, we are still talking in this 21st century about famine, about those millions of people around the world who are hungry and dying of hunger or malnutrition. it is a shame for humanity: this situation shows the accommodation of civilization with a form of barbarism and it also shows the accommodation of our prosperity with underdevelopment in other parts of the world, such as madagascar, where there is an urgent need today to act on international solidarity, because the situation there is tragic. in the south of the country, more than one million people, including 70,000 children, are now suffering from acute malnutrition. these famines in madagascar and elsewhere are now aggravated by global warming. but they didn't wait for global warming to exist. and if we really want to solve the food challenge on a global scale, we must also have the courage to fight the unequal order of the world that, far from home, creates so much misery.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it's a sad truth, but it's a truth that the whole world has drastically deviated from the zero hunger course. the course is not maintainable at this time. our progress in fighting hunger, our progress is going backwards, and in fifty countries hunger is a serious, a very serious or even a serious problem. it has been mentioned: it's about conflict, that's often the reason. it's about covid-19, and those are reasons too. and i would like to thank you, commissioner, for making it very clear where the eu is opposed to this. green deal, you led, farm to fork, you led. you've been leading the thousand-day debate and talking about resilient food systems. you have not mentioned one point, and it was right that you did not mention it, but it is all the more painful, namely our agricultural policy. we are not taking any steps towards countries that are hungry in our agricultural policy, but our agricultural policy is the driver and driver of hunger in the world. i think that needs to be more clearly stated. and it would be so nice if in future we could also call our agricultural policy a good situation in terms of fighting hunger. but we can't yet. we still think the world market is the hot one. we still believe that we want to serve the world market, and we still believe that we want to feed the world. i don't believe it was him. unfortunately, a majority of this house believes it. that is why the agricultural policy we voted on is a catalyst for hunger for the next seven years, not a dampener. this is bitter.
mr president, more than 800 million people went hungry last year, but approximately three billion people cannot afford a healthy diet, 40 percent of the population. this figure is only going to increase. an increase of over 161 million last year. why is that? because hunger is not a problem of lack of food but a problem of lack of rights, of fundamental rights of almost half the population, which are trampled underfoot. that is why we need cross-cutting policies. because hunger feeds on poverty and extreme poverty has increased for the first time in 20 years. that is why we need to live up to the promises made at the kyoto summit, at the new york summit on food systems and with our commitments to agenda 2030. 2021 has been the year of promises. the european union must lead the way to make 2022 the year of concrete action.
mr president, commissioner, the 'nutrition for growth' summit, the results of which we are examining here, cannot be dissociated from many other summits and high-level meetings to create the conditions for the achievement of the millennium development goals. but the facts have not withstood the test of the pandemic, and the data shows that, once again, it was the most vulnerable who paid the highest price for the global catastrophe it induced. the main indicators of sustainable growth have declined over the past year. it has increased child labor, hunger, malnutrition, school dropout, violence and disregard for human rights. some of the countries on the list of those where hunger is most intense are countries with enormous natural resources and elites living in a bubble of ostentation. others are countries torn apart by war and internal strife, and one cannot be separated from the other. hunger and hopelessness are often the fruit of war, of natural disasters, but they are also the seeds from which they are born. the ambition of a future with more people having access to affordable, healthy food requires concerted action. to kill hunger is also to prevent the death of the dreams and the rights of dignity and fulfillment of many millions of human beings. without that, there is no sustainability. maybe there is no possible humanity at all.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 800 million people in the world do not have enough to eat and two billion are malnourished. world agriculture is 30 billion farmers with the tractor and chemicals, 300 billion farmers with the horse and manure and 1.2 billion with the hoe. there are 1.4 billion hectares of arable land on the planet, 12% of which is in the european union. who can believe, on the pretext of mechanization and chemistry, that only these 12 percent can meet the world's food needs? let's look at it another way: with a little knowledge about organic matter management, the 1.2 billion small farmers could double their yields and go from 3 to 6 quintals per hectare with just a little knowledge about organic matter management. this has been demonstrated by many experiments from all over the world. 3 billion more cubic meters, that's more than the world's hunger needs. the food sovereignty of the peoples is not solved by productivism and the domination of the west, but by this increase in yields in the other 88% of the surface of the planet. this is the path i propose to you to deal with the food sovereignty of the peoples.
mr president, last week at the nutrition for growth summit, the european union committed to providing at least €2.5 billion for nutrition by 2024. this is a welcome commitment in the face of many emergencies, but if we are to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030, development and humanitarian aid will not be enough. we need a complete overhaul of our food systems, as we called for with the 'farm to fork' strategy. trade agreements, agricultural policies, fisheries, extractive industries - everything has to be re-thought! for example, a billion people depend on the resources of the oceans. according to a study in nature, if we can protect our oceans to provide enough seafood for developing populations, we could prevent 166 million people from being directly malnourished. i have two questions, madam commissioner: how do the services of dg intpa intend to work with dg mare to align the objectives on nutrition and fisheries management? and, following the summit, does the european union envisage political commitments on the transformation of food systems?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, democracy at work, democracy at work at amazon, it is like santa claus, it does not exist! in poland, magda, who is a member of the occupational health and safety committee, was not allowed to join the workplace accident investigation committee after one of her colleagues had just died at her workplace. worse, she was fired for false reasons, apparently after reporting the poor working conditions in a warehouse that led to her death. in the united states, we just learned that six workers died in their warehouse collapse because amazon refused to suspend operations, despite tornado warnings. warehouse workers are not allowed to use their mobile phones during working hours, so they were not able to receive the alerts. jeff bezos is trampling the law on powerless workers by preventing them from organizing because amazon is always about profit above all else. so, colleagues, even though christmas is coming soon, we should not be giving gifts to amazon. instead, to borrow from the slogan of a global campaign, "let's make amazon pay".
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, mr minister, allow me to first express my regret that this house is not in a position to propose a resolution with proposals on covid-19. with the exception of the socialists, the other groups did not support our proposal to provide you with a list of solutions in a resolution. apparently some people would rather debate how europeans should wish each other or celebrate christmas, rather than making sure we all have a merry christmas. our group has done its homework: our motion for a resolution contains a number of lines which have been sent to you. as you rightly pointed out, madam president, we are facing an epidemic of the unvaccinated, which is being eaten up by the elements of disinformation that we can find all over europe. against this virus and the disinformation, we need to take action. the commission's initiative is welcome, but i call for collective responsibility. politicians, journalists, commentators, religious authorities, social and cultural actors, if you have no scientific knowledge of this virus, do not share false information. we must constantly denounce all those who sow doubt in our populations and all those who give a platform to conspiracy theism. i would also like to remind the far right in this house, which is largely vaccine-sceptical, of a sad reality: people are dying, some carers are failing and others will fail as the number of patients admitted to hospital who are not vaccinated increases. freedom is restricted and a number of your delegations and parliamentarians continue to refuse to call for vaccination for electoral reasons. frankly, with this crisis, you have really lost the right to call yourself the party of freedom, for some, the party of the people, for others. you are sacrificing our freedoms and our right to health for all and for the people, you are sacrificing it too because you are reinforcing the idea that this vaccine is not effective when all our scientists today think that this vaccine is effective and that it is the solution to our problem. apart from the subject of vaccines, the main fear for our group - and we have discussed this - is a re-experiencing of the chaos, madam president, of the previous crisis. we must anticipate as far as possible the differences between member states on how to respond to this crisis. the covid certificate is an undeniable success. in the urgency we think the recommendations which you are going to discuss in the council with the heads of state and government are excellent, but we must take back control of the regulation. this parliament has done an extraordinary job on this project, and the european citizens, through parliamentarians, must continue to be involved and have a say in this reform. it is not just a matter of defending freedom of expression. i am taking the example today, speaking from strasbourg, the european city, because i know very well what a relief the certificate was for our cross-border workers, for our families, for our tourism professionals, the relief of a return to normalcy here, for example, in strasbourg. we have asked so much of our people that we owe them efficiency and coordination. finally, madam president, my group expects very concrete answers on the proposals, in particular on the acceleration of measures to support the economy and the covax timetable: we must urgently vaccinate the world. europe is a driving force in this area and must remain so. only by anticipating and organizing things will we be able to convince all those who are reluctant to vaccinate and we will be able to cope with this pandemic. i hope that everyone will have a good holiday and that some colleagues will also have a merry christmas.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, i suggest that you run a stopwatch while i speak. every second, the drug companies are going to make a thousand dollars in profits. that's the jackpot. by refusing to waive the patents, mrs von der leyen, this is what you wanted to protect at all costs: big pharma's money rather than our lives. because the vicious circle has been the same for two years now, since covid-19 entered our lives. two years since the epidemic began and it has already claimed more than 5 million lives. two years of the virus growing, spreading, mutating, and coming back like a boomerang, variant after variant, wave after wave, overwhelming our health care system. two years, mrs von der leyen, since you denied us full access to the contracts with the laboratories, even though they were financed with public money. two years that you - the european commission - have ignored the calls from the who, the un, a hundred countries and even three times from our own parliament to take vaccines off the market. two years, mrs von der leyen, protecting the production monopoly of a handful of multinationals, rather than requisitioning their factories and skills and sharing them with the whole world. two years you've been saying it's no use because it would take months to open factories, but two years you've been putting off the problem and wasting time. two years that you have been selfishly grabbing the few doses available when only 7% of the population in poor countries has received a dose. two years, mrs von der leyen, since you boasted of your charity, this morning, when the rich countries still have not given more than two thirds of the promised doses. two years that you've been feeding the sharks that are surfing this fifth wave and that have taken advantage, like pfizer, to raise their prices, making covid-19 just another opportunity to accumulate cash. two years you've been putting our lives, our outings, our little joys, our ties to our alumni on the back burner to serve big pharma. in short, two years of protecting their profits at all costs rather than our lives. so, in conclusion, the labs have made over $120,000 in profits since i started my intervention, and at the same time, covid-19 has claimed about 10 lives. so when do we stop this madness?
mr. president, i will not read what i was going to say about the health crisis. many calls have been made this morning for our society to organize itself to fight against false information. let us start here, where we must invariably denounce the constant disinformation coming from the extreme right of this house. no, mr. fitto, it's not better to cure than to prevent. prevention by vaccination is medically, socially, ethically and economically the best way to fight a pandemic. no, mrs donato, just because the variants are likely to be less aggressive does not mean that the barriers should be removed. it's the other way around, it's because they're more contagious. and mr. lacapelle, that such false information be spread in the name of the freedom of the people is odious. because what you're defending is the freedom of the virus to spread. merry christmas to you!
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, the mission of this summit will be to coordinate against our enemies, omicron in the lead. it will also be responsible for advancing our common defence through the strategic compass. so remember. remember, on the 5th of march 1953, stalin died. and in the aftermath, soviet pressure was gone for a moment, the idea of the european defence community was gone for decades. commissioner, minister, it is 15 december 2021, 67 years after the birth of a true joint force, that russia has just deployed 100,000 men to the ukrainian border. seven years after they illegally annexed crimea, and did so with almost total impunity. history shows us that not having a common strategic autonomy, a common defence, has not made us stronger. it did not make us less threatened, quite the opposite. then let's go, because the emergency is here.
mr president, commissioner, minister, colleagues, 2021 has been the year of vaccine access for europe and for everyone. today, vaccines are arriving in large numbers in vulnerable countries, thanks to covax. more than 300 million doses have been promised and given by our member states. this is welcome, but in 2022, there is a new challenge: the deployment of vaccines. because vaccinating populations is not just about delivering doses on the tarmac. we need syringes, refrigerators, trained personnel in the field. the risk is that our vaccines bought with european taxpayers' money will be rejected by countries or worse, thrown away. if we really want to vaccinate the world and get out of this pandemic, europe must now provide real logistical support on the ground. so let's keep our promises to the end, from donating vaccines to injecting them into the arms of citizens.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, banning 'generic' expressions such as 'mr', 'madam' or 'mademoiselle' and now banning the mere reference to christmas is what the european commission is demanding of its employees in an internal memo addressed to them. this masterpiece of bureaucratic stupidity is not a mere anecdote, but a new step towards the gradual and meticulous installation of a new totalitarianism. your plan for this millennial civilization that you hate so much is not just to replace it with migratory routes, but to cancel it. to undo it purely and simply by methodically deconstructing its soul and its foundations. this militant project is the one of the woke ideology, imported from the other side of the atlantic. a culture that wants to wipe out the past, erase our myths and our heroes, unbolt our statues, rewrite history, blame the majority to better impose the communities. the erasure of our cultural and civilizational references is only a step. while you think it is legitimate to revise our millenary traditions or our vocabulary, the european commissioner for equality, helena dalli, is actively promoting the femyso association, an islamist organisation close to the muslim brotherhood, known for its proselytism in favour of the veil and its attacks on the french concept of secularism. the council of europe campaign, financed with our money, promoting the islamic veil, is so alien to the idea of european civilization as it regards women. in the face of your desire to simply eject europe from the european union, we will continue to defend a french france in a european europe. let me say, ladies and gentlemen, at the risk of drawing the ire of the hateful deconstructionists you are, that i wish you all a very merry christmas.
madam president, 'one may wonder', wrote bernanos, 'if there will be many more christmas nights with their angels and their shepherds for this world so alien to the spirit of childhood'. incredibly, but true, the day has come: now we must try to save christmas, which the european commission seemed to have planned to condemn. commissioner dalli considers that the term is not inclusive enough. this is crazy! to reach the hatred of the roots that made europe. mrs dalli may have forgotten: christmas is not just the pretext for the winter holidays, as she says, it is the day on which the world we inherit is born, the beginning of our era, the reference from which we count our years. mrs. dalli, are you going to take us back to that common landmark? this is crazy! because to deny what unites us is to destroy any possibility of belonging to a common culture, any hope of assimilation and thus to open the way for the breakdown of our societies, for communitarian demands that prepare the confrontations to come. the same month, the european commission condemns christmas, because it must be inclusive, and funds a campaign proclaiming that joy is in the hijab, because it must be inclusive. you think we don't understand? when you call us to avoid christian names, to prefer, i quote, "malika" rather than "maria". you are not attacking superfluous symbols, and i say this to all our colleagues who are tempted not to take this problem seriously: you are attacking what unites europe and you are opening the way to all the fractures of tomorrow. jean paul sartre wrote - jean paul sartre! - "you have the right to demand that we show you the crèche and you want to take that right away from us. and you're not the first, mrs. dalli. but you have to take responsibility, even if you didn't have the courage to come here and answer, i know you hear us. you have done everything to deny europe and you were meant to serve it. but it's all for nothing. it is folly to think that you can destroy it. all the dalli ladies in brussels will never prevent the commission offices from being empty on christmas day because of the infinite hope, which hannah arendt spoke of, as proof that christmas is inclusive, through what she described as the greatest of all good news, the good news of the gospels: a child has been born to us. mrs. dalli, we're talking here, but the truth is, we don't need to save christmas. it is christmas, once again, which will save us as long as europe lasts. merry christmas to you!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is investing as never before, and these investments are the guarantors of our economic recovery, but also of our future. and it is this future that investors see with optimism when they over-subscribe seven times the amount of european bonds planned. this means that investors who sense the economic situation give their money to the union without hesitation. already 80 billion this year, and many more in the years to come. because they know that europe will pay them back, because they know that europe will pay them back through own resources, as we have collectively committed ourselves to and which must be presented on 22 december, commissioner, i remind you. because investors know that in 40 years' time the union will still be here. more and more. because they have confidence, as we have confidence in europe and its future. the success of this major loan is a failure for the sovereignists and the eurosceptics of all stripes. it marks the defeat of their ideas that europe should not interfere in economic recovery, that europe should cease to exist tomorrow and therefore not be able to pay back. well, to those people, i say, you're wrong. and the attractiveness of this big loan just proved it again.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union will not get out of the way of poland and hungary, which the european union is humiliating by refusing to pay an advance for their recovery plan. we have just learned that the commission wished to wait until the parliamentary elections in hungary next april before taking a decision. brussels is taking an unacceptable hard line with these two countries under the pretext of necessary reforms, while the litigation brought before the court of justice of the european union is still pending. in reality, poland has opened a breach in the european union by calling into question the supremacy of community law over national law. in the absence of a european constitution, rejected by referendum in 2005, the primacy of european law remains fragile. by calling it into question, poland is setting a precedent. if the plans had been approved by the commission, poland and hungary would have been entitled to a first payment of 13% of the total of €23.9 billion and €7.2 billion of subsidies that these countries are due to receive over the next five years, respectively. in addition to the fact that the new rule of law mechanism is outside the treaties, the regulation requires a sufficiently direct link between the breach of the rule of law and budgetary implementation, so that it does not apply to all breaches of the rule of law, but only to those that have a direct link with budgetary implementation. it is therefore for the european union to provide evidence of that link, the reasons for which it bases its causal link on being substantiated. but in the meantime, i have one question above all: when do you think about the hungarian and polish citizens who are waiting for these subsidies?
on behalf of the id group. madam president, after the regular debates on hungary, we are now in the regular debates on poland. poles have the right to choose their own definition of the family, their conception of unborn life, their education system and the place they are willing to give to the state in the direction of their lives. these areas, it has been said, are not within the competence of the european union. and the defence of the rule of law - a concept which is not contained in the treaties and is not precisely defined - cannot be a pretext for claiming, at european level, prerogatives which belong only to the constitutions of individual countries. we were discussing the collapse of the ussr on monday: it was solzhenitsyn who warned us that there would be germs of totalitarianism in the powers that would rule the world after the cold war. the european union does not have to define what a man, a woman or a family is. the european union does not have to behave like a deity who would force his followers to follow a new gospel. it is the constitution of a country that must define it, and this constitution today does not have to bow to a rule of law that has never been clearly defined in the treaties.
mr president, mr vice-president, while innocent people are dying at the border, you are setting up an emergency mechanism, but not to organise solidarity, no! an emergency mechanism to legalize, whatever you say, the violation of human rights and the right to asylum. it's a shame! 'arbitrary and prolonged detention', 'accelerated procedures', 'return': these words have no meaning. what is the point of condemning lukashenko's exploitation of these asylum seekers, when you practice it shamelessly? yes, there is an emergency. it's a humanitarian emergency. four thousand children, women and men are dying and hiding in the forest and the cold because of your lack of humanity that stains all of europe. four thousand. a drop in the ocean of 450 million europeans and by no means a threat. there is an urgency to get out of this situation by welcoming these human beings. doing so is not giving in to lukashenko's blackmail. on the contrary, it is to guard against future blackmail of this kind by demonstrating that the arrival of a few thousand migrants cannot destabilise a continent. building a wall, on the other hand, is a form of compromise. this is the admission of weakness that belarus hoped to get. the urgent need is to remain steadfast in our european values, in the immutability of human rights and international conventions.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, by raising the question of energy poverty, you are discussing a real problem: the current explosion in the cost of energy - gas, electricity, fuels - is creating a legitimate climate of revolt in my country. but it is not enough to raise problems when ideological assumptions, at best, prevent you from providing answers, at worst, contribute to making them worse. it is clear that policies of taxing motorists or of regulatory inflation for the use of fossil fuels will be particularly harmful to two categories of people: the poorest, who cannot change cars, and the rural, who do not benefit from public transport. under the guise of ecology, your policy only serves to aggravate social and territorial inequalities, and in fact to strengthen urbanisation. we think we have to go in the opposite direction, which is demetropolization, which is to say the rebalancing between urban and rural areas. this obviously requires a rethinking of economic development, infrastructure, but also a public and private transport offering that is no longer punitive.
mr president, madam commissioner, there is no better place than a petrol station to understand the increase in petrol prices. so i went to the champigny-sur-marne station, in the paris area. why this station, you ask? because it was the cheapest morning in all of east paris. some of the motorists i met had driven 20 km to save between 3 and 5 euros on their gas tank. they told me about their difficulties in filling up their petrol and the lack of public transport in the suburbs. they also told me that they were cutting back on other expenses to keep using the car. commissioner, people are suffering from the increase in fuel, gas and electricity prices, especially when wages are not increasing. to deal with this situation, europe will have an instrument, the social climate fund. a fund that will only be useful if it allows the people of the champigny station to move around without bleeding their wallets.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, fear must change sides, but the fight against sexual harassment must not turn into obsession or generalized suspicion. the taboo against reporting sexual harassment, particularly in the workplace, must be broken, the perpetrators must be punished, but we must stop regarding men as a global threat. your text states that gender-based violence has its roots in sexism, gender stereotypes and the domination and discrimination of women by men. i find it disturbing and unfounded that there is a permanent opposition between men and women in europe and even a widespread oppression of women by men. there are cases of sexual harassment or abuse. this is serious and needs a strong response. but these cases are fortunately only a tiny minority of men. to consider men as all potential offenders leads to your proposal of compulsory training to re-educate all men who would all be deviants. that's not our design. most men we associate with are neither oppressive nor dangerous to us women. but not everything has to become the new inquisition. victims must have the right to speak, and defendants the right to defend themselves. the media court should not replace the people's court and challenge the presumption of innocence. while this text addresses the very real problems of harassment within the european institutions, let us not lose sight of the daily lives of thousands of european women. in addition to tracking down potential harassers within its walls, the european union should not turn a blind eye to harassers on its streets: in my country, eight out of ten french women have already been harassed in public spaces, especially in the street or on public transport. where are women most at risk? in the corridors of the european parliament or in the neighbourhoods or cities of europe, where their place is being reduced by the flood of migration organised by the european union and by the laxity of the national judicial system? the first place where women are at risk is above all in public spaces. moreover, while the problems of harassment at work are now widely known, denounced and combated, street harassment is increasing exponentially and remains totally unpunished. let us combat harassment in the european institutions without falling into the trap of caricature and call on the member states to take firm measures to ensure the safety and freedom of women throughout europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am over 50 years old, so i too have suffered from moral harassment, sexual harassment, in my professional life, and not just a little. i was a woman, they were men. it wasn't about the fact that they were men. it had to do with the fact that they had power. and today, in this house, we have the power. compulsory training of members of parliament is therefore an extremely simple and effective way of explaining to people in power that power does not allow everything. i was a victim of harassment, but i also witnessed harassment and i didn't know what to do. we must make this training compulsory so that everyone in this house knows what to do and so that the whole of the european policies we put in place are not tainted by scandals that we do not need and reflect society, its richness and all its diversity, as we must do as exemplary meps.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, it is high time that wild animals were banned from circuses. firstly, the use of endangered species in circuses undermines the fight against illegal trade and poaching. we can't really control where animals come from, or control the births and deaths of these animals. there is also the question of accidents involving regularly the trainers, the employees, and even the public. but above all there is the question of the mental and health suffering of these animals, because they are mistreated: mistreated by regular transport and conditions of captivity which do not allow them to satisfy their natural behaviour; mistreated also by training often carried out by force or deprivation of food; mistreated by their conditions of detention. it is enough to see the animals running in circles in their cramped cages, when they are not simply chained. in france, the jumbo hippopotamus is a typical example. hippos are aquatic animals and need a large enough heated pool to regulate their body temperature and to relieve their joints, as they are very massive. yet a court decision chose to keep jumbo in the circus that owned him. elephant maya endured 40 years of captivity in a circus that still forced her, despite her age and health, to adopt painful postures for her during performances. her physical condition, increasingly appalling, brought her to the brink of euthanasia. how can we be insensitive? these conditions of detention are sometimes so bad that the animals are often medicated or even sedated. add to this the limited or excessive social interactions between the species and the spectacles that inflict traumatic sound and light conditions. for all these reasons, the captivity of wild animals must be ended. these representations must be banned at european level, as many member states have already done. in france, the circus andré joseph bouglione, after becoming aware of this terrible animal abuse, put on a magnificent show using hologram animals. this is the path we must take from now on.
madam president, tigers, lions, elephants, giraffes and even sea lions - all these animals have no place in a circus. for them, being used in a circus means being deprived of their natural environment, being subjected to violent training from an early age, being exhibited in stressful acts against their nature, and being subjected to repeated transportation when the circus is on the road. the origin of these animals is sometimes doubtful, ranging from trafficking to poaching. the majority of member states have already adopted measures prohibiting or severely restricting the use of wild animals in circuses, but a handful of countries refuse to adopt measures recommended by veterinarians. don't think we're against circuses. circuses are more creative, their shows are more beautiful, more moving when there is no animal suffering. more and more circus artists are proving that a circus without animals is possible and are receiving support from the public. animals are not clowns or acrobats. i heard you earlier, commissioner, and i must say that i am disappointed. my position today is that the commission must act to ensure that there are no more animals in circuses.
author. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, vladimir putin is frightened. of course, his power is not immediately threatened. he controls the guns, the money, the media, the officials. but he will be afraid as long as free consciences exist in russia. and there, he's afraid of memorial, afraid of justice and truth, afraid of every light that shines on the filthy night of thieves and murderers. and when the tyrants are afraid, that is, every day of their lives, they repress and they murder. natalia estemirova, a hero of our time, was investigating for memorial the countless crimes committed in chechnya. she was shot in 2009. oyub titiev and yuri dmitriev were arrested, and now oleg orlov and svetlana gannouchkina are facing prison or exile. they are my role models, as was anna politkovskaya, my friend, who was killed in her building lobby on putin's birthday. ladies and gentlemen, the first meaning of this resolution in support of memorial is to remind europe and the world of what courage is. defending teenagers in grozny who are being tortured in kadyrov's prisons or complaining in moscow about mercenaries from the wagner group, putin's secret army, for crimes committed in syria - that is courage. memorial is the name of russia that we love, that we admire, a name that reminds us that we are not fighting a nation, but a regime. so let us offer our help to russian society, let us offer our support to the exiles and let us strike this plundering regime where its heart beats, that is to say in its wallet. those who imprison heroes, plunder their people, persecute minorities, trample on our principles and our interests must no longer be able to enjoy their villa on the côte d'azur or their chalet in courchevel. it's as simple as that, sometimes, politics. solidarity with the victims means seizing the yachts and bank accounts of the executioners. my dear colleagues, the time has come for us to have even a hundredth of the courage of the members of memorial.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this movement that mr putin wants to silence was the first ray of sunshine of perestroika. i will never forget the first meetings organized by memorial with former gulag prisoners who met, looked at each other, whose tears began to flow and who said in a small voice: "it is you, it is really you". yes, they were the survivors. so why does mr. putin want to gag this movement that was the very symbol of a return to freedom in russia? well, simply to rehabilitate stalin. and why does he want to rehabilitate stalin? but simply because this man, who had presented himself to the world and to the russians 20 years ago as the heir of peter the great, becomes the heir of ivan the terrible.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, everything in this parliament is in order to attack serbia. belgrade, shamefully bombed by nato forces, is like a permanent bad conscience at our door. serbia refuses to bow to the european union's fanatical atlanticism? the commission then makes it a condition for accession to the european union, without these provisions being included in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. serbia refuses to recognise the fragmentation of its territory with the creation of kosovo? so this parliament is trying to force the recognition of pristina. does serbia welcome all international investors, whether chinese, european or russian? so brussels wants to make it dependent on our subsidies alone. i am the first to defend the right to fair competition on the european continent. however, i hope that these human rights resolutions will be comprehensive and transparent. where did the information about the linglong factory come from? an association funded by george soros' open society and whose representative is a former employee of the same george soros in serbia. ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that mr soros' interference in the affairs of this parliament is a constant insult to our constituents. the balkans attract a huge number of investors and networks. turkey, the gulf countries, russia, the united states and china are in constant competition. what is the european union doing against them? the least virtuous leaders are showered with money, like mr đukanović in montenegro. this attitude inevitably leads to failure, because we are seen as an actor more ideological than realistic. i am afraid that this resolution will therefore remain a dead letter. instead of calling for an impartial and full inquiry, the resolution condemns without specifics. instead of dialogue with serbia, we are instrumentalising a partial investigation against belgrade.
mr president, in bor, serbia, the silk roads have become the roads of shame. china is not only exploiting copper in this country without respect for the environment, it is also exploiting people without respect for their dignity. a red cloud of pollution is hovering over the city. a cloud of opacity too, because those who investigate chinese investments in serbia are accused of going against the country's interests. but what are the interests involved when asian workers come cheaply and in deplorable conditions to work for a chinese company that is operating on conquered territory? what are the interests involved when beijing gets highway, bridge and railway construction contracts without a tender, when huawei deploys a thousand facial recognition cameras on the streets of belgrade? can we remain indifferent when serbia is at the heart of europe and a candidate for membership of the european union? there is no doubt that we need to be more present in the balkans. in this context, i welcome the summit announced by french president emmanuel macron for june. but there is no doubt either that it is not by aligning itself with beijing and moscow, against the interests of its own people, and disregarding the protection of workers and the environment, that the serbian government is advancing serbia's accession to the european union. this is the message he needs to hear. (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question is the balance to be struck between the sustainable supply of our markets and the absolute right of states to control the flows of people and goods entering their territory. i am very clear: there is an imperative to protect the population from the pandemic that legitimizes and justifies these restrictive measures taken by sovereign states. the complete fluidity of the internal market, which is already a more than questionable objective in normal times, must be erased in these troubled times: public health before ideology. i would add, as the representative of the five french overseas departments, that restrictions on the movement of goods are our daily reality. throughout the year, the specificities of these territories, due to their remoteness, insularity and isolation, are all obstacles to access to the european market. however, if article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for derogations from the customs and trade policies in force for all the outermost regions, it is true that the union is aware of the need to adapt to the realities. i would like to ask a supplementary question, mr president: will the commission accept to hide in front of the states which, in times of a pandemic, know much better than it what the real interests of their populations are?
