on behalf of the left group. mr president, in this resolution, the overwhelming majority of culture meps agree that to support our heritage we must support the people of the sector and tackle challenges such as climate change, illegal possession and trafficking, which have increased amidst the pandemic, but also challenges in the digital transition. in this resolution we also join forces for uniform funding and concrete policies such as the training of professionals and free access to museums. the european union has a duty to ensure that the cultural heritage of the peoples of europe is preserved and that the cultural heritage of the peoples of europe is protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the adoption of the revised enforcement regulation is a real step forward for the european union. we are now in a position to defend the union's trade interests and rights, even when our partners obstruct the dispute settlement mechanism either in the wto or in bilateral treaties. the scope of possible countermeasures to services is also being extended, as has been a constant demand of both the group of the european people's party and the majority of parliament. however, the european commission should be both quicker and bolder in exercising its rights to implement and enforce international trade rules, especially when dealing with trading partners with a proven record of non-compliance with international rules, such as turkey, which for years has been violating the provisions of our bilateral trade framework by unilaterally applying tariffs and equivalent measures. at the same time, it continues to provoke in the eastern mediterranean, to violate the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus, so i ask: can the european union really trust a partner who does not respect international law? despite turkey's recent attack on europe's friendship, i still have serious doubts about its intentions. both the council and parliament have called on turkey to comply with international law. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the international law.
madam president, the delay in securing the required doses is a consequence of the competitions involving pharmaceutical companies and capitalist states. the commission's refusal to make the contracts public protects business interests at the expense of the people, leaving them in the dark, while the member states' prohibition on negotiation deprives them of the ability to meet vaccination needs. all vaccines certified as safe and effective should be used by the public to protect their health and lives. it is revealed daily that there is a need for immediate staffing of public health units, with permanent staff, infrastructure, developed public primary health care, mobile vaccination units for the elderly; things that are considered by the eu and governments, including the new republic, as costly and are rejected. for this reason, vaccines cannot replace the urgent need for a shielded public health system. the acquisition of patents feeds the profitability of the groups in another way. the peoples in their struggle must demand a free and armored public health system, to create conditions so that health, medicine, is not a commodity, but a social good.
in writing. the completion of the trans-european transport network should be accelerated so that the core network is completed by 2030 and the extended network by 2050. we must achieve these objectives in order to give the peripheral, island and outlying regions of europe the right to claim their development on as equal terms as possible with the centre. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. significantly enhance rail transport and create infrastructure across the network for the penetration of sustainable alternative fuels, such as electricity and hydrogen from renewable energy sources. it is also an opportunity to shed light on network security that is directly related to loss of human life. the trend towards reducing budgets for network maintenance must be reversed immediately. finally, it is time to include the western balkans, our neighbours, in the european transport map with the necessary investments.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i was very pleased to hear the council and commission's proposals, because, ladies and gentlemen, migration is not a national issue but a european one and must be dealt with as such. the european union must act together and in concert in this, perhaps, last chance we have to deal with the problem once and for all, which is particularly acute in the first-aid countries, such as my own country, greece. it is certainly the responsibility of national governments and they must take it on, but not just the governments but also the european union. i would like to stress that the new greek government has taken substantial initiatives to secure its external borders, the european borders, to speed up asylum procedures, to create closed, controlled centres with humane conditions and is also making progress in the return process, and i am pleased that this is now being recognised. but she can't do it alone. and even more so when turkey's president erdogan is using migration to blackmail europe and to satisfy his own domestic political agenda, culminating in the systematic tension he has caused in evro, playing with the fate of many desperate people. so there are no margins, there are no magic solutions: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one, but it is necessary to say that the directive is a good one. the european solution must not be limited to vague promises and vague words; the lofty declarations must become practical solidarity.
madam president, we were not satisfied with the motions and, of course, we did not understand the figures; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do we know exactly what's going on? mr meimarakis was satisfied, as a representative of the ep, with the closed centres we are paying for. mr. johansson, are we finally doing closed centers? i'm talking about the concentration camps. i'll tell you what the european way of life is: the european way of life of mr. schinas and the new pact is the inhuman conditions of detention, the zero sanitation, minimal food of poor quality, though expensive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the end, you're preparing not the best, but the most expensive prison-concentration camp in europe. a luxury tax on misery. we are against this policy. you'll find us across the street.
madam president, to protect, support and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms everywhere and anywhere. nevertheless, the national authorities are ever present. people that speak out about human rights violations, journalists and media workers, even educators, are threatened, and women’s and children’s human rights are being violated. looking at our neighbour in the east we cannot help but underline the importance of a fair and unburdened judicial branch to safeguard and promote the fundamental human rights of our citizens as well as the utmost importance of enabling a free space for civil society for the democratic governance of any state. in this regard, i would like to personally work on the efforts made by the council, working towards a possible eu global human rights sanctions regime to tackle serious human rights violations worldwide committed by state and non—state actors.
the crisis created by the coronavirus has caused great problems all over the world, let alone for european citizens. we have seen that there is a great problem with the human condition of the citizens. we talk about money, we talk about numbers, and we do well, because money and aid should be given to ordinary citizens; but we must not forget that we are slowly losing our humanity. what kind of life will we have? how can a man live when he doesn't live with his own, when he can't hug his relative, can't hug his child, can't go out with two friends to go somewhere and live like he should. there are big issues here and there is a complete panic that has been created around the coronavirus issue. i personally see some things that i cannot perceive; we can get on the subway, we can get on the bus, we can get on public transportation, where we're crammed with so many other people, but we can't get in our car, be with two other people, be with our family. how is that possible? i can buy a coffee or a sandwich and lean on the stairs to eat, but i'm not allowed to sit on the chairs. we must look at these, we must look at why we have come to this point, and i would like to say one last point: we must not give money to ngos. i am very impressed, because ngos are very clear about what they stand for.
mr president, the new capitalist crisis, accelerated by the pandemic, has given governments and the european union the opportunity to legislate permanent demands from employers to reduce labour costs and intensify labour, dramatically increasing telework. employer abuses are perpetuated through the 'connection' of the latest technology and exploitation: cameras, recording apps, sensors, working overtime, with painful consequences for the mental and physical health of workers. violations based on existing european union anti-working-class directives and government laws providing for the abolition of the eight-hour day, the increase of working time to 72 hours a week, the six-monthly adjustment of it. workers are called upon to intensify their struggle for collective agreements, the reduction of daily working hours and the abolition of all forms of flexible working, against the perma­nentization of teleworking, to ensure their free time. to fight against laws that dissolve the eight-hour day, workers' insurance rights, such as the ten-hour work promoted by the government of the new republic, to ensure the return to the workplace with all the necessary protective measures under the responsibility of employers and government.
mr president, commissioner, according to a eurofound study, 27% of those working from home say they have worked in their free time to meet the demands of work. in this context, the right to disconnect must be an important tool of our social policy and must be protected immediately; a tool that will allow workers to improve their work-life balance and to cope with the consequences of permanent disconnection on their mental and physical health, but also a regulation that will take seriously into account the impact on population groups such as women, young people and people with caring responsibilities, such as families with children and single-parent families, and of course take into account the specific needs of the various sectors in terms of the right to disconnect, while respecting the autonomy of the social partners.
in writing. since the start of the pandemic, more than one third of eu workers are now working from home. in addition to the benefits of flexibility, time savings, reduced air pollution due to reduced mobility and the protection of the health of vulnerable groups, teleworking poses a major challenge to industrial relations by introducing new data and imposing new obligations between employers and workers, often at the expense of the latter. the increasing use of telework has led to an imposed mindset of being connected and working around the clock and can have a horizontal negative impact on workers' fundamental rights, fair working conditions and work-life balance, physical and mental health and safety and well-being at work, and, given its disproportionate impact on workers with caring responsibilities who are typically women, on gender equality. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected, and that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. in the absence of a european legislative framework defining and regulating the right to disconnect, we ask the commission to propose legislation on this matter without delay. disconnection from work must be a fundamental right and workers must be able to turn off digital devices without facing consequences.
madam president, commissioner dalli, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in greek today because the message of gender equality must be heard by every citizen of the european union in order to be understood. inequality is a reality that is experienced, observed, studied; we cannot look the other way. the treaty on the functioning of the european union itself recognises this in article 8: the union shall, in all its activities, aim to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women. the political debate on gender equality is a vital instrument of the democratic process that takes place in this room, but also in our home, in national parliaments. the exploitation and violence against women through objectification and marginalization is a phenomenon that no one in this room can dispute. women must operate on equal terms in society, especially through the economy, as economic participation is key to their voice in a fair labour market and society. the european parliament works horizontally towards gender equality, promoting the politicisation of violence against women, including illegal hate speech online. everyone must be equal before the law; equal pay for equal work, according to the work plan for all. their wallet is theirs. we are defending their participation in the local and external policies of the european union. the european union speaks with one voice for the position of women everywhere. equality, at all levels and in all aspects of daily life, is the fertile ground for the prosperity of a society and the springboard for its development. that's what we're fighting to do here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey and the erdogan regime are once again of concern to us. selahattin demirtas has been held in a maximum security prison in adrianople since 4 november 2016 without having committed any crime. this is not the first time that president erdogan has imprisoned people who do not agree with his views or he believes are a threat to him. in total, he has dismissed 150,000 people and jailed 80,000 as alleged accomplices in the 2016 coup and gulen supporters. in turkey, the rule of law and the separation of powers have been undermined for years and the rights of turkish citizens are being trampled on. the european council cannot ask poland, bulgaria and hungary to strengthen the rule of law and at the same time allow turkey, which is now a member, to slip into dictatorial practices. the european parliament has already said that it is not in favour of the creation of a european police force, but that it is in favour of the creation of a european police force. the european parliament's voice is loud and a clear message to president erdogan.
mr president, the european central bank, from its inception to the present day, has never been called upon to deal with such an unprecedented crisis at the health, social and political levels, which affects symmetrically all the national economies of the euro area. the pandemic and its holistic impact on all sectors of the economy forced member states to adjust their fiscal policies and make their budgets more dynamic and finally to agree on the historic recovery fund to ensure that europe can start, innovate and grow the next day. in this unprecedented crisis, the european central bank has therefore been able to rise to the occasion and respond appropriately with swift and drastic initiatives, which we welcome, mrs lagarde, and which have given the member states the necessary liquidity to support their economies and in particular the weak, small and mediumsized businesses and jobs. the next day of the pandemic brings europe to face numerous challenges. the fourth industrial revolution with its full transition to the digital age, green growth and burdened state budgets are now calling on the european central bank to define its role and rise to the occasion, in order not only to be a stabilising tool but also to stand by the euro area member states in their successful transition to this new era.
madam president, mr rapporteur, mr huitema, congratulations on the report on the circular economy. it's a very important step towards sustainability, an important goal for the completion of the green deal. we must abandon the model we have followed, the predatory and wasteful linear model of diverting, consuming and discarding vital resources. we all know that the earth is not inexhaustible but is a set of finite resources, which requires their rational, sustainable and equitable exploitation. we are in complete agreement with designing products that are durable, repairable and upgradeable, with recycling being the last option only for those products that cannot be recovered in any other way. i come from a country where waste management is a problem. the circular economy is structural reform so that countries like greece can invest in the future and use the recovery and resilience fund to protect public health.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. as a social democrat, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the green transition is socially and economically sustainable. it must be possible to achieve a climate-neutral europe that creates new jobs and protects our environment at the same time. the eu's new action plan for a circular economy is aimed at doing just that. it is possible, but it is not easy, because it requires fundamental changes in the way we produce, consume and recycle not just in europe, but around the world. but with the new action plan, we are leading the way in the eu. we are showing the rest of the world that a sustainable society is possible: by requiring companies to make production sustainable, by making it easier for consumers to choose the sustainable solutions, and by working even more closely together on recycling our shared resources across borders. together we can create a europe that takes care of the planet's resources and ensures a healthy economy. this is a sustainable europe!
madam president, commissioner sinkevičius, the circular economy action plan(2) is a significant step forward. one of the main parts of the new plan is the binding eu target for 2030 and also the introduction of harmonised circularity indicators. moreover, the member states should include resilience in their national climate and energy plans by building waste strategies and policies and robust scientific data, improving the comparability of eu statistics. our citizens should also be engaged to prefer affordable products that are respectful of the planet. the eu ecolabel could be used as a benchmark for environmental sustainability. however, commissioner, implementation is everything. that’s why it’s so important to facilitate members states like my country, greece, to create extended producer responsibility schemes with the eco-modulation of fees and tax incentives and other financial incentives promoting sustainable consumer choices. the circular economy action plan is a huge opportunity for our market, for our people, for becoming pioneers on the planet. that’s why, commissioner, we have to proceed with mandatory targets and due diligence of the products in order to set global standards and create a level playing field for our companies.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this very useful and fruitful exchange. i have taken very good note of your interventions and comments. thank you, in particular, for your strong political support to move our circular economy agenda forward. i’m reassured to see that we share the common objective of harnessing the circular economy potential to deliver on the european green deal together. let me very briefly pick up on just a couple of the issues you raised during this debate: plastics, textiles and the implementation of our ambitious agenda. first, on plastics, within the new circular economy action plan, we will ensure the swift implementation of the 2018 eu plastics strategy, and it will take follow-up measures – measures to restrict the use of intentionally added micro-plastics in products and to tackle unintentional emissions, for example, from textiles and tyre abrasion, and from primary plastic production. it will also include requirements to ensure that all plastic packaging in the eu market is reusable or recyclable and in an economically viable manner by 2013, along with requirements on recycled content and waste-reduction measures, taking into account the activities of the circular plastics alliance. hence, a policy framework for biodegradable and bio-based plastics. last, it will implement measures on single-use plastics. now, on textiles, we are addressing the textile sector due to its strategic position in the eu economy and its large environmental impact. in the context of the covid-19 crisis, this is also one of the sectors that would offer opportunities for recovery since it’s the key area in many countries that were severely hit by the pandemic. textiles is the fourth-highest pressure category for resource-use of primary raw materials, which is taking place mainly outside eu. in addition, the majority of textiles currently end up in landfill or incineration. only a very small percentage is recycled. so we are planning to develop a comprehensive strategy in cooperation with all relevant stakeholders in europe and beyond. more generally, on implementation, the transition towards a circular economy requires the committed involvement of the widest range of stakeholders. it’s crucial to improve the flow of information along the value chain and to bring together key actors that can share common challenges and barriers so that they can learn from each other. the different services of the commission and of national administrations have also taken up this approach. it’s not unusual that the circular economy agenda is led jointly at national level by the ministries for the environment and for the economy or industrial policy. let me be very clear: we will be successful with the circular economy action plan only if we implement it hand in hand with the member states and deliver our common agenda together. i very much look forward to continuing our close constructive cooperation now that we will roll out and work on the various legislative proposals in implementing our circular economy action plan. batteries, on which the european parliament will hopefully start work soon, is the first one, and several other proposals will follow over the course of the year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 9 february 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. no circular economy without a sustainable single market. to this end, the huitema report is a step in the right direction and confirms our commitment to success. there can be no circular economy without sustainable production and consumption. it is essential to: strengthen europe's strategic autonomy and make europe a global leader in the green transition; investing, including in r&d, in sustainable products and services; to have the right to make reparation; to improve consumer information, in particular through harmonised labelling; to promote the uptake of green and innovative products by public procurement; to put an end to practices leading to planned obsolescence; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between them. after all, there can be no circular economy without new rights for citizens. this is the deepest meaning of our commitment.
in writing. if the whole world consumed as the average european does, we would need three planets to live on. the eu economy must be brought to the limits of the planet's capacity. there is also a cold economic logic behind the transition to a circular economy. the transition to a circular economy would reduce the burden on the environment, but would also increase gdp and benefit the economy. the eu has knowledge, research and innovation and a global leadership in the circular economy. we also attach great importance to the progress and efficiency of the circular economy in the face of ever-worsening resource scarcity. the transition to a circular economy would make the eu better prepared for the future than it is today. competition for scarce resources will only intensify, and the one who can produce more with less will fare best. as up to 80% of the environmental impact of a product is determined during the design phase, the design phase is particularly important. products and packaging must be designed to produce not waste but circulating material. in other words, the waste must be designed out according to the 'design out waste' principle. the product policy must be based on sustainable, safe and non-toxic materials. we need science-based and binding medium- and long-term targets for reducing the use of primary raw materials and environmental impacts to bring the eu economy to the limits of the planet's carrying capacity by 2050.
in writing. – i fully support this report because it is needed for a successful circular economy in the eu to: encourage cooperation between governments, industry, local authorities and civil society to achieve circularity in products and services at every stage of their lifecycle; support innovative approaches for an efficient and responsible use of resources; support models and practices that expand the useful life of products; promote regulatory action that ensure large-scale availability of economically competitive secondary raw materials, for the relevant waste streams, enabled by intra-eu waste shipments; ensure legislation for a circular economy; promote educational consumers campaigns; consider the environmental performance of manufacturing processes and products in green public procurement decisions; provide market surveillance and law enforcement authorities with sufficient capabilities to enforce product regulations and environmental standards. a successful transition to a fully circular economy will foster environmentally friendly practices, and boost growth and jobs through a novel business model, with no one left behind.
the next item is the debate on the report by juan fernando lópez aguilar and maría soraya rodríguez ramos, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims (2020/2029(ini)) (a9 0011/2021). i should like to remind members that for all debates in this part-session there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, as during the last part-session, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner johansson, is there anyone in this european parliament who doubts that human trafficking and human trafficking is a criminal phenomenon of the highest gravity? it is a crime in its objective dimension, because of the stratospheric volume of business and profits it generates, but it is also a crime in its subjective dimension, because it is an attack on the fundamental rights and human rights which are most cherished by european law and which are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. and that is exactly why directive 2011/36/eu represents a decisive step in this european parliament's conversion, when the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union came into force, into a criminal lawmaker, a lawmaker on procedural guarantees and a lawmaker on the protection of fundamental rights enshrined in the charter. because that is what it is all about when we fight human trafficking and human trafficking in a crime that has a transnational reach. and so the response must also be articulated in the european supranational sphere, which is the legislative responsibility of this european parliament. and we have worked, from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, and the committee on equal rights for women and gender equality precisely on the revision, at the ten-year anniversary of that 2011 directive, of its regulatory content, to provide a more effective response against all forms of human trafficking, embedded in the 2012 anti-trafficking strategy, but also in the european union strategy against organised crime and the european security union 2020. this is what article 20 of the current directive requires, a periodic review, and we have attended discussions of periodic reports in 2016, 2018 and 2020. but ten years into its existence, it is time to say that we are facing a crime that has multiplied by the accumulation of crises, from the great recession to the covid-19 pandemic, and by the online information revolution, because this organized crime has multiplied online, not only to hide its profits, but to exploit its victims more cruelly and more viciously in forced begging, in forced crime, in forced marriages, in illegal adoption, in organ trafficking, in reproductive exploitation and in the economic and financial exploitation of victims of trafficking. that is why the report adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has an age approach, protecting minors, and a gender approach. because age and gender are not only relevant but also determinant in the pattern of exploitation and enslavement of people in the sex industry, in construction, in agriculture or in domestic service. but the 2011 directive notes a pernicious problem of impunity for traffickers and human traffickers due to evidentiary difficulties and difficulties in cross-border judicial cooperation which highlights the importance of specialised training and training of judges, prosecutors, law enforcement agencies, law enforcement forces and bodies and legal practitioners. and that is why the directive 2012/29/eu on the protection of victims emphasises the best protection that this european parliament should give when legislating against the sexual and labour exploitation of victims. and here we must say that article 18, currently in force, of the directive on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings provides that member states 'shall consider' the inclusion in their penal codes, that is, they will consider the inclusion in their penal codes of the criminalization of the use, consumption or employment of labour or sexual services of enslaved persons. but the criminal responses of the member states differ and a more effective and more european response is needed, a more effective european criminal harmonization. we therefore propose that article 18 be revised so that all member states explicitly criminalise the knowing and conscious use, consumption or employment of the sexual or sexual services of trafficked persons, so that where it says 'shall consider the inclusion in the criminal codes' it says 'shall include in the criminal codes' the explicit criminalization of the use, consumption or employment of the sexual or sexual services of trafficked persons. because it is evidence that impunity is rooted in the low number of complaints and identification of victims, which is something that should be done. but it is also evidence that, at this moment, the landscape of sexual exploitation of women in the european union is cruelly grazing, cruelly hovering over women who have been victims of human trafficking. that is why it is essential to take this step of amendment and we demand it from the commission in the revision of the 2011 directive: the criminalisation of the knowing use of sexual or labour services by women victims of trafficking. in addition, our report advocates a multidisciplinary approach, so that not only the reform of the trafficking in human beings directive is included, but also its combination with the single residence permit, compensation for victims and legal and social assistance with a gender and child perspective. the member states are also asked to provide for european funds and budgets, collaboration with civil society, a link with the asylum procedure to better protect victims of trafficking in asylum procedures and the establishment of legal pathways. all with the aim of ... (the president withdrew the floor).
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, the crime of trafficking in human beings is a crime which violates protected legal rights such as one's life, health, physical and moral integrity, sexual and outpatient freedom and one's human dignity. the practices that turn people into commodities - violence, threats, coercion, extortion - are aimed at dehumanizing people into commodities, and the suffering that is caused to them is immense, is profound, is lasting. that is why we want to join forces with this report and call on the commission, all the european agencies, all the member states and civil society to fight this horrible crime. because, ten years after the directive, this crime has only grown in our territory. half of the trafficking victims are european citizens. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is also about children. we have just received a report from the united nations office on drugs and crime and it tells us that there is an alarming increase in the proportion of children who are victims of trafficking, which has tripled in the world. one third of the victims are children, but in poor developing countries, half are children. because, as was just said in this forum, vulnerability is the characteristic of victims, poverty, discrimination, but gender discrimination, gender violence, is a substantial element. thus, the majority of trafficking victims are women: trafficking for either labour exploitation, organ trafficking or sexual exploitation - over 60% of all trafficking patterns - where women make up 92% of the victims. it is a gender crime: 70% of traffickers are men. vulnerability is what it is. and on the other side, impunity. it's just been said. we're only able to free 1% of the victims. we have to stop the criminals, the heads of these criminal mafias, of what the united nations office on drugs and crime says is the second most profitable criminal activity in the world, and we have shown a great deal of impotence in the face of it. we therefore call in this report for a holistic approach to the fight against this crime: not only europol and eurojust, but also the agencies fighting money laundering, because if we want to tackle criminals, these organised mafias, let us go after the money. the traceability of money laundering from their criminal activities is fundamental. but we cannot forget the other fundamental part of this crime, which is those who use the services of trafficked persons, and we have to criminalize and penalize this use because demand encourages the commission of the crime, increases its profits. that is why, as has just been said, we call on all member states to make it a rule that the services of victims of trafficking be used in a conscious manner. finally, we have to work with the victims, commissioner. the human rights-based approach to the victims of the directive was the right approach, but victims need justice; they don't always get it. they need reintegration, they need repair and they need rehabilitation, and in order to protect them we have to identify them, and here we are clearly failing. we fail to identify children, who are lost on the migration routes; children, unaccompanied minors: easo tells us there are thousands of them, invisible. we have failed to identify victims early, which is fundamental: that is why we have to work on the specialisation of judicial and police officers. and, commissioner, we have to rely on civil society, on the ngos that are working to help these victims. we must guarantee victims social assistance and services, safe accommodation, free legal representation and psychological support; we must, in short, reiterate that victims are only victims and that there can be no double victimization, no double penalisation: we must only protect them. finally, consider the context of covid-19, which increases vulnerability. and so, ladies and gentlemen, let's look around us. the victims are in the textile workshops; they are in the online ads, because, unlike other victims, i want to tell you that the victims of sexual exploitation should not be hidden, they should be advertised so that they can be sold; therefore, they are there, we just have to have the courage to look at them. and i'll end with a verse from our poet pessoa, who said that sometimes the hardest thing is to see only what you see most. let us all make that effort together and have the courage to look at them. they're out there, and you see them a lot.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, susan is a young woman from nigeria. a woman called ivy promised her a job in europe. instead they gave susan a short skirt and high heels. they told her ‘you’ll get used to it’. but susan may never get used to it. susan was afraid to escape, afraid to be sent back to nigeria, afraid they would hurt her mother, but she did escape and she testified. in the end, the judge sentenced this woman ivy and put her in prison. this is a story of exploitation. it’s a story of courage. but it’s not a story of justice. men moved susan to europe. men guarded susan. men threatened susan. when susan ran away, men beat her mother. men used susan’s body. and the men all got away. i know that trafficking is as shocking to you as it is to me. that you too want justice for the victims. that you too are determined to end the trafficking of human beings. so i would like to thank juan fernando lópez aguilar and maría soraya rodríguez ramos, and the european parliament, for putting this report on the table. we must help the susans of this world and step up the fight against trafficking in human beings. it’s obvious that we need to do more. trafficking in human beings is one of the worst forms of organised crime, carried out by cross-border gangs that exploit people, their labour and their bodies. member states must fully implement the anti-trafficking directive and the commission will assess this very closely. we will help member states by boosting the capacity of law enforcement and judicial bodies also across borders, perhaps with a knowledge hub to share best practices and information. at the same time, the anti-trafficking directive will have its 10th anniversary this year. we need to start looking if it needs updating. a full time anti-trafficking coordinator will be appointed. the traffickers treat human beings as tradable objects, as commodities. we must disrupt the economic logic behind this crime. we must cut demand by targeting users. 60% of trafficking is for sexual exploitation and 92% of these victims are women like susan. without users there would be no trafficking. i will look at possibilities to criminalise the use of exploited services. we need to make it more difficult to exploit victims’ labour, and we should target high risk sectors like agriculture, care services and construction. better awareness and communication campaigns in these sectors could help identify victims. we need to look at all the eu agencies that can help to tackle this problem. we must cut the supply of victims by breaking the criminal model of trafficking. to do that we must end the culture of impunity. human traffickers now make nearly eur 30 billion every year, worldwide. i want to target asset recovery more effectively. to catch criminals and secure convictions we need to boost law enforcement cooperation. that is already a commission priority – interoperability of data systems, updating the prüm system. our recent proposal to boost europol’s mandate will help to fight all cross-border crime, including trafficking. we are working on a police cooperation code. to counter trafficking specifically we could increase data exchange on trafficking through europol. we could improve coordination between member states and agencies. we must harness technology against trafficking. europol and the united nation’s office on drugs and crime are ringing the alarm bell. traffickers are moving online. we need to improve digital capacities of law enforcement for online investigations to detect recruitment and trafficking of victims online and illegal money flows. we also need to work closer internationally. working with friends and partners to fight smuggling is essential to our new pact on migration and asylum. breaking criminal networks will also be part of our upcoming action plan against migrant smuggling. we should investigate if and how we can mobilise our foreign policy, security and trade instruments against trafficking. the traffickers aren’t selling objects, they are exploiting human beings. we must protect the victims by supporting training of border guards, police, social workers and others, to identify and save victims, efforts by member states to help victims, with funding and sharing best practices, awareness raising on victims’ rights, and by building partnerships, for example with the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. throughout, we need to keep three things in mind. first, this is a european problem. 70% of the perpetrators are eu citizens. half of the victims are eu citizens. three quarters of trafficked children are eu citizens. this is a european problem. second, this is a gendered crime. nearly three quarters of perpetrators are men. nearly three quarters of all victims are women and girls. third, that the most vulnerable suffer most. children, mostly girls but many boys too, are forced to beg and steal, but mostly forced into sexual exploitation. in migrants and refugees, traffickers prey on children and teenagers on the road or in camps – especially unaccompanied minors who are perhaps the most vulnerable of all. i look forward to working closely together with you in the european parliament to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i really thank you for your speech, for your frank words. europe is a promise. europe is a promise to women in particular. a promise of peace. a promise of self-determination, of freedom of choice. europe is a promise of nonviolence. europe is also a promise of fairness and responsibility. and i think there is no situation that contradicts europe more than human trafficking. because it's the opposite: it's not about fairness and nonviolence. it's not about self-determination and peace. it's not about responsibility, it's about one-sided gratification, one-sided exploitation, one-sided needs, and it's very, very often about violence. i really appreciate your clear words again. we must fight human trafficking in europe, wherever we suspect it, wherever we see it. and i would like to draw particular attention from the femm committee to the area of trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation. even in this house, and i'm sure there, there are men who are demanders, who are buyers. because statistically, there is a large group of men who are buyers, who are demanders, and who are involved in the human trafficking system. and as important as it is to see the victims on the one hand, to protect them, to support them, to empower them, to get them out of the system, to enable them to get out, we must act just as fiercely and forcefully on the perpetrator's side! we need to clearly identify buyers as perpetrators in the context of human trafficking and prostitution. this must be clearly stated! i would like to thank all the members of this house who have the courage not to push the buyer class away but to be honest and open and say that they are among us.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i am deeply shocked – shocked by the high number of women and children who fall victim to human traffickers every year: 60% of all victims are trafficked for sexual exploitation; 92% are women and girls, and 25% of all victims trafficked are children. colleagues, these aren’t just numbers. behind every number there is a story of abuse of life, and of exploitation. we urgently need to address the root causes of human trafficking and break the profit model of traffickers. this report is a wake-up call to the commission and the member states because part of the solution is in our hands. we have this directive on anti-trafficking – so implement it. investigate more and step up cross-border cooperation. give tailor-made training to investigators, prosecutors and judges so that they can catch and punish the human traffickers. give europol and frontex more resources to fight human trafficking and protect the children in migration. colleagues, every day criminals are making money from exploiting women and girls within our borders. this must end. let us make the fight against human trafficking a priority – now.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, i have heard too seldom that human trafficking is a scourge often - and also - linked to the migration issue. yet we all have in mind images of slave markets in libya, such as the accounts of migrants abandoned in the middle of the desert or at sea by criminal smugglers. we have a duty to put an end to these networks of traffickers who, under the pretext of poverty, are growing thanks to the mass immigration policies you are putting in place. and the migration pact that the european commission is proposing will undoubtedly encourage these criminal networks and allow ngos to be immune from prosecution when they sometimes organise rescues hand in hand with traffickers. worse, by introducing the principle of compulsory reception on european soil of migrants rescued at sea, you encourage smugglers to abandon more and more migrants in the mediterranean! so i urge you to correct this pact and stop being the indirect accomplices of these traffickers. it is by taking back control of our borders and regulating our migration flows that we will combat parallel trafficking in human beings. less immigration means less traffic. a majority of the peoples of europe aspire to this common sense policy, but the european union, as usual, always aspires to the opposite.
for the left group. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased. as we look at the eu and national efforts to combat trafficking and human trafficking, i have three things i would like to share: i want to see more focus on those who are exploited, to justice, to support, to exit strategies for women in prostitution, residency permits and compensation for victims of crime. we must put an end to this confusion with the closed borders and the fight against trafficking. of course, the far right says they want it, and that it would be good, but it is their agenda anyway. we need to stop confusing migration with human trafficking. that's not how we fight it. and - and this has been raised here earlier by colleagues - one of the most effective ways to combat human trafficking is to target those who exploit it. we must put the responsibility where it belongs, namely with all those, in all ranks, who exploit. in the case of prostitution, exploitation in prostitution, we must also punish those who buy. the countries that do not dare to punish sex buyers, that do not dare to go after those who are actually responsible for this exploitation, well, those countries should at least dare to criminalise those who exploit people who are victims of trafficking. i guess that's the least you can ask for. i would like to send this with the commissioner.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, 72% of the victims of trafficking in the eu are women. trafficking for sexual exploitation is widespread, with the percentage of women reaching as high as 90%. it is not enough to close the loopholes and improve the implementation of the anti-trafficking directive to protect the rights of victims and to tackle criminal networks. the perverse mechanism of supply and demand for human beings to be exploited must be combated, on the one hand, by means of measures to combat organized crime, corruption and money laundering, but also by measures to combat gender inequality and poverty. the protection and assistance of vulnerable groups, such as women and children, must therefore be strengthened, an even more urgent need today in responding to the challenges posed by the pandemic and the role of the internet and digital technologies in the proliferation of trafficking. finally, decisive action is needed both in the context of migration and asylum, where criminal organisations take advantage of the absence of legal and safe channels to intensify their business, and to make criminal systems more efficient so that crimes do not go unpunished.
madam president, there are many factors that affect human trafficking. we are in a society where the end justifies the means: it is easy to understand why people are treated as mere commodities, deprived of their freedom and dignity in order to achieve selfish and often perverse goals. unfortunately, many of these objectives have already been achieved through legislation, albeit in the service of interests that run counter to human rights. we cannot turn a blind eye to cruelties such as sexual and reproductive exploitation, slavery and organ trafficking, but neither can we turn a blind eye to illegal immigration. all these practices are inhuman and are directed by international organized crime networks that operate with impunity, shady businesses that move a lot of money and also a thirst for power. we find it amazing that gender ideology is also manipulated to accuse men of being violent by nature. be honest, look at all the dimensions of the problem. to give them a solution, we'll expose the culprits. i call on you to recover the transcendent value of the human person in order to ensure that human rights are always and in every case respected.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings. a crime committed daily by traffickers against the greeks of the outermost islands, athens, thessaloniki, evros and the rest of greece. we who are concerned with this issue know very well that ngos, their political patrons and trafficking rings are part of the same vicious circle that we are going to break. whole greek neighborhoods have been turned into ghettos, and why is that? to make some people rich by filling our country with illegal immigrants. if we want to stop trafficking, we have to make it hard. we need to guard our borders much better. we must send back the smugglers' boats to libya and turkey. and finally, we must stop giving money to ngos and to turkey, which is involved in such circles.
mr president, dear colleagues, the latest world economic forum future of jobs report shows that over the next years, 40% of workers will require reskilling of approximately six months. having this in mind, the commission’s skills agenda communication has rightly placed skills at the heart of the eu policy agenda. we will need quality and inclusive training and lifelong learning opportunities for all, with a particular focus on the most vulnerable people of our society and workers in sectors that will undergo fundamental changes. digital skills and literacy, green skills as well as competences such as critical thinking and problem—solving should be key elements in order to harness the potential of the digital and green transitions and bridge the existing skills gaps. however, this can only be achieved through a holistic approach, involving all relevant stakeholders and enabling us to anticipate the changing nature of jobs and the skills needed in order to adjust our education systems. and that is the only way to succeed in one of the biggest challenges of our lifetime: to enable our workforce to thrive in new job types that don’t yet exist.
mr president, the debate on measures to combat inequalities is really about adapting workers' rights to the demands of the monopolies of the so-called green digital economy at a time when the new capitalist crisis, the measures taken by bourgeois governments - and attempts to make the pandemic permanent - have put workers in a very difficult position. in greece, the policy of the european union and the government of the new democracy has reduced workers' income by a further 12%, while a new attack is being prepared for ten-hour work, abolition of overtime calculation, criminalization of trade union action and strike, based on the appetites of employers and under the fear of unemployment. the report presents the european pillar of social rights as a guarantee: an anti-worker mechanism that reduces people's rights to a minimum by consolidating the commercialisation of health, insurance and education. the expansion of workers' rights is therefore a necessary condition for the implementation of the strategy which will bring "hot money" to businessmen. the workers have a choice: to fight organized for their modern needs and rights so that they do not pay again the capitalist crisis, against exploitation and the system that generates it.
madam president, the recovery and resilience mechanism is one of the tools of the european union and of the bourgeois governments to boost the profitability of the monopoly groups in specific sectors that are at the forefront, for example in the so-called green and digital transition, with the aim of overcoming the new capitalist crisis, accelerated by the pandemic, and to benefit from international competition, especially with the usa and china. the grants or loans are not 'free money', as the nd in greece claims, or the country's 'price' under syriza. it is money of the people which, in conditions of a general strike on wages and workers' rights, is intended to shield monopolies. they are linked to new hard measures (national pissarides plans) and new 'target and reform' control mechanisms added to the anti-people arsenal of the european semester, country recommendations and evaluations. we call on the workers of our country to reject old and new memoranda, to organize the struggle for their modern needs and to confront the strategy of the european union, capital and its governments, which are burdening them with the heavy consequences of the crisis.
mr president, the recovery and resilience mechanism is one of our great weapons as europeans against the economic recession that the coronavirus pandemic has caused and continues to cause. but planning alone is not enough. we must speed up; we must put hot money on the market now. unemployment is rising steadily and economic indicators are tending to deteriorate day by day. the additional resources as new money are more important than ever to have targeted interventions to channel investments to maintain and create jobs. after years of questioning our effectiveness and our ability to work as a country, i am proud to tell you that we are among the first states to submit a national recovery plan and even with praise for its analysis and interventions. the dynamic response and the immediate response that we have shown as greece during the pandemic to the economic and social problems i consider - and is recognized everywhere - to be remarkable. our action and resilience plan includes a comprehensive and coherent set of reforms and investments that will increase growth potential and therefore job creation and economic and social resilience, also with a focus on green growth and digital transformation. in conjunction with the other funds, we have succeeded in creating our own billion euro 'vaccine' against the economic and social misery of our citizens.
madam president, years ago, the best available science warned us of an upcoming pandemic, and yet our governments failed to prepare. as we enter the third wave, hundreds of thousands have died, our economies are devastated, and inequality has exploded. the best available science, including our very own parliamentary research services, explicitly links the increased periodicity and intensity of zoonotic epidemics to anthropogenic biodiversity loss. madam president of the commission, you have rightly said that we have now entered the era of pandemics. your commission has greatly enhanced the remit of european integration by establishing the recovery and resilience facility and achieving the common provision of vaccines. for years, however, best available science has been warning us of the apocalyptic consequences of anthropogenic climate change. we cannot afford to fail to prepare again, for there is no vaccine for climate catastrophe. it is now clear to all, madam president of the commission, that the invisible hand of the market has proved impossible to regulate nature and ensure people’s health and well-being. you must obtain the ip rights and make sure every person on the planet is properly vaccinated. do this and you will have the support of this house and the respect of history, or you risk both.
in writing. there is no doubt that european coordination in the management of the covid-19 pandemic is the only safe path for eu member states. we are stronger together. the european citizens have rightly set the bar high. they demand of us speed and efficiency. mismanagement and a little petty are hard to forgive. there have been some irregularities in the last few days. to some extent they may be justified by the unprecedented and complex international health environment. but there is no room for error when human lives are at stake. we must respond immediately, forcefully and effectively to the voices of criticism and dispute that are undermining the prestige and credibility of a united europe. that can only be done by action. i am absolutely confident that in the very near future we can turn this challenge into an opportunity. we can show greater determination, quicker reflexes, acumen in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can prove that together we can overcome obstacles, win difficult battles and respond to our leadership role in the global environment. in greece we say "every beginning is difficult". but we also say that "the result counts". and finally, all of us who support european union will be judged by the outcome.
madam president, i am an elected member of the european parliament like all of you here. we've gotten thousands of votes each in our home to represent what we believe in and what the world sent us here to do. how democratic is it, then, that a man whom we do not even know, an employee of a private company, can deprive us of our right to speak? that he can deprive us of what we voted for and what we are here for - the representation of our ideas? how democratic is it that i personally - and there is evidence for what i am telling you - have been punished so many times by facebook, youtube, twitter and elsewhere for speeches i have made in the european parliament, in which i express what i have voted for? how democratic is it and why is democracy afraid of the opposite opinion, when i have come here to declare that i am a proud greek, a christian, who fights for the rights of all those who voted for me? where is the democracy in all this ? if democracy has begun and is so afraid of the opposite opinion, then i am very much afraid that it is not democracy but is very close to tyranny.
madam president, social media have transformed our lives and revolutionised the way we conduct politics. but they have also created challenges related to disinformation, the integrity of our elections and several fundamental rights, to name just a few. as proven over the last year, platforms – and in particular the so-called ‘gatekeepers’ – can do much more to facilitate a healthy democratic debate through content moderation. proactive measures such as labelling misleading or unfounded posts online proved to be very helpful. but at the same time we should be mindful of striking a balance between safeguarding the civic debate and protecting fundamental rights such as the freedom of expression. we need to preserve the prohibition of imposing a general monitoring obligation and reconsider the liability exemptions for active platforms while providing for safeguards such as adequate oversight and judicial redress mechanisms. finally, transparency over algorithmic decision-making will be key. as a society, we need to have a better understanding of the functioning of social media algorithms. in this regard, platforms should provide researchers with further access to data, in order to examine potential systemic risks and the socio-economic harm they may cause.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their own decisions. since the beginning of the pandemic, the use of masks has been a new addition to our daily lives for the safety of ourselves and our fellow human beings. unfortunately, it has managed to go from being a necessary medical tool to becoming an integral part of our daily lives. the application of the mask and the covering of much of our features no longer deprive us of the ability to recognize facial expressions or lip movements of people with whom we converse. i mention this because, in addition to the social dimension, there is another major problem which concerns communication for our deaf fellow citizens. for them it is necessary to see the lips and the face in order to understand the words and to be able to communicate. the same is true in my case. my face is the mirror of my feelings in my speech and covering it up i often feel that it is not possible to convey my positions. unfortunately, every day, vulnerable social groups are cut off from their daily lives and work simply because they cannot communicate. we must therefore speed up and proceed immediately with the approval and distribution of transparent masks, always of course following the guidelines and medical protocols of the commission and the european centre for disease prevention and control for the production of medical equipment. i understand that the distribution of masks is a national responsibility of each state, but the union should step up and support the member states, as it did in may 2020, and create a common pool of medical equipment ready to be used at any time. efforts should be made to reduce the cost of their acquisition to the level of surgical masks. we must move towards a union for health, for the good of our citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr gentiloni, our political commitments under the paris agreement and the european green deal for the transition to climate neutrality require a number of policies to be reviewed with the appropriate legislative tools. they require political innovation and courage. our agreements with third countries must not export pollution, cause biodiversity loss and support human rights violations. the absence of a global carbon price creates distortions in the global market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy. the mechanism should therefore be combined with the gradual withdrawal of free allowances in industry with a view to its climate modernisation and global leadership. the mechanism should be extended beyond the areas already covered by the ets to imported agricultural products with a significant footprint, as well as to international transport. it should also be redistributive in nature and its revenues should finance the green transition. parliament is prepared to support a very ambitious proposal from the commission. i would like to thank mr jadot very much for his report.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, a few days after the release of the new european disability strategy, i am very pleased that we have this chance to share such valuable thoughts on this very important right for disabled persons. what concerns me the most is that the protection of the equal right to employment is often misinterpreted by policymakers as the right to supported, sheltered occupation through social enterprises. unfortunately, this leads to further segregation of disabled people. what we should focus on instead is providing the means to link disabled persons to the open labour market, no matter what one’s impairment. i can understand that this goal is more challenging because it demands our inclusion in every aspect of life. people cannot be employed in the open labour market when they are excluded from the mainstream educational system, when they cannot use public transport or do not have the support they need in their daily life in order to be independent. but after all, inclusion in real life is, and should be, our objective. let us stop creating fake segregational schemes for disabled persons in order to keep us out of your way.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of a new type of safety device. the whole report is permeated by the withdrawal of state responsibility from supporting their needs. in the name of independent living, the degradation and commodification of existing state structures is being carried at a heavy cost to the individual and his family. the hospitals for a disease, closed for chronic sufferers, the rehabilitation and special treatment centres left to chance, the private institutions with the thousands of cases and victims of covid-19 confirm the criminal nature of this strategy. the report advocates the eu's access policy, which generalizes the commodification of every service provided, refers employment to the free market of crushed wages and benefits, and proposes subsidies and tax breaks for capitalists. we demand an exclusive public free health care system, free special education of high quality for all children with disabilities, guarantee of the right to work, with full rights for those able to work, operation, under the responsibility of the state, of protected production workshops.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, to ensure a rapid and sustainable recovery, investment programmes such as investeu need to have the appropriate resources, and here i would like to say that we are not satisfied with the final agreement and the substantial cut imposed by the council. the programme is not as ambitious as it should be. it could be to meet the demands of the current situation and the pandemic. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of climate change mitigation and adaptation. we want investeu to finance projects that will make a real contribution to climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. we are opposed to financing investments based on fossil fuels. the principle of non-harm should apply to each project financed and not only horizontally. the use of the classification criteria should be mandatory for the monitoring of climate and environmental investments. by promoting social projects investeu will contribute to strengthening social cohesion and we have sought and ensured that projects in the field of social investment promote gender equality and enhance the participation of women. i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, mrs tinagli and mr fabregas fernandez, for their work. we need a strong europe to meet the objectives it sets itself. the investeu programme, as approved after the tripartite dialogue, unfortunately does not meet these conditions.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the new investeu programme will be the most emblematic investment programme of the european union for the relaunch of the european economy. as the successor to the juncker package, i am proud that we have managed to equip it with some €650 billion, aimed not only at revitalising the market and re-igniting investment interest, but also at supporting smes, research, innovation and the green transition. i personally think that in the new programming period we should achieve four simple things that will give the necessary impetus and confidence to europe. firstly, all member states should be able to reach the target of investing 3% of the european union's gdp in research and innovation. secondly, to focus on creating new and sustainable jobs in the regions whose main industry is tourism. third, the transition regions to take advantage of the programme and the just transition fund to integrate into their strategic plans and the necessary public and private investments, thus achieving our commitment to climate change by 2050. finally and most importantly, the programme should support the new european industrial strategy by supporting projects aimed at the productivity, entrepreneurship and competitiveness of the european union.
mr president, commissioner kyriakides, i am particularly pleased that the report on the eu4health programme focuses on a number of essential elements that i have also touched on in the past, such as addressing inequalities in access to health, especially in our most remote regions and islands, improving access for all citizens to affordable and high quality health services, and focusing on challenges such as mental health and demographic ageing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, this must be only the beginning. we need more europe in the health sector too. taking the lessons of the pandemic seriously, we should therefore build a true european health union, a union that puts forward the need to invest in primary health care to prevent health systems from collapsing in a potential new health crisis; but also a union with a truly holistic strategy for training and empowering health workers, which will allow our health systems to complete their digital transformation with a single goal: to ensure modern and quality health services for the benefit of european citizens.
madam president, our discussions have recently focused on how the european economies should act to face the next day of the pandemic, which is coming to be extremely difficult and with incalculable consequences at all levels. in the last year and a half, tourism, catering and retail trade have been irreparably damaged, sectors which form the foundations of national economies and provide many jobs. in my country, greece, which has just emerged from a painful decade of economic crisis, these sectors are once again in the eye of the storm and need our practical support with forward-looking targeted measures, adapted to the needs of local communities. europe, while it must be a leader in the green and digital transition, must all the more safeguard jobs and keep these sectors alive. the european union must be able to take action to combat the economic crisis, and the european union must be able to take action to combat the economic crisis, and the european union must be able to take action to combat the economic crisis. the courageous initiatives and funding programmes already announced and under way at european level will of course go a long way towards ensuring that economies are restarted, provided, of course, that national governments use these funds to boost entrepreneurship, to stimulate healthy competition in a transparent and rule-of-law manner and that they do not waste them. so the stakes today are to make it to the next day and be all right.
madam president, commissioners, according to eurostat, only 50.6% of disabled people are in employment. in 2019, 28.4% of our european citizens with mobility impairments faced the spectrum of poverty and social exclusion. these overwhelming data confront us with the need to focus the european semester more on the concept of social sustainability, but also the need to adopt social policies that contribute to the reduction of poverty, inequalities, access to services and the provision of equal opportunities in employment, education and training, which in turn will allow us to seize the unique opportunities that the digital transformation of our economy brings, but also to address possible short-term or long-term consequences for our society. this is the way to achieve the sustainable development of europe as enshrined in the treaties of the european union with a view to full employment and social progress. because when i, as a member of the european parliament, cannot speak from the main platform because of my disability, you can imagine the obstacles and the obstacles faced by our other disabled fellow citizens in the workplace and in their lives in general.
madam president, you are trying to present as a solution to the capitalist crisis the new instruments of passive financing of the green and digital economy groups, framed by the so-called 'european pillar of rights'. under the pillar, access means payment, instead of the right to free health, health care, education for all. it means adjusting the working hours, working 10 hours, abolishing the eight-hour day and the sunday holiday, flexible employment with a 200 euro salary instead of permanent and stable work with full rights. it is a harmonization of work and life, with an intensity of teleworking, exploitation and control by the employer. you throw ashes in the eyes of the workers, to accept the minimum, the obstacles to trade union action, the limitation of the strike, the generalization of repression. these are the guidelines of the european union, the national recovery plans of the new republic government, the pissarides model. these are plans to save the monopolies, which are putting the burden on the people. the workers, the environmentalists, the self-employed, against these repugnant plans to support the capitalists by the european union, governments and bourgeois parties, to demand their modern rights to work, education, health, not to pay again the capitalist crisis!
mr president, we are discussing today an important social and political issue for many member states and political groups. for this reason, many member states have not taken measures to address the legal gap in protecting people from discrimination, hate speech and violence on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender role and gender characteristics. we are witnessing a retrogression and a return to extreme conservatism in several member states with changes in the legal system, for example in ukraine and poland. commissioner dalli, we must be careful not to create social injustices for anyone and respect the rights of all citizens, such as promoting the acceptance of their uniqueness in the workplace and the unhindered access of lgbt people to education, health, culture, sport, and ultimately to life. but we have a long way to go before all the societies of the member states understand the right to diversity and self-determination. finally, i would like to remind all of us that the fight against inequalities in the european union is a common responsibility for all of us. it requires joint efforts, without political colours, and action at all levels, from the local to the european.
madam president, mr vice-president of the european commission, as the greek prime minister, mr kyriakos mitsotakis, has said, the decision on the recovery fund is historic. the recovery fund is a collective wall of protection and solidarity for the countries of europe that need a reboot in their economies and a breathing space for national budgets due to the impact of the pandemic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the necessary measures. greece has already submitted its own national plan for the use of the recovery fund to the european commission and has received excellent reviews. it is not in the interest of any member state to delay. the commission, for its part, must not be subject to unreasonable bureaucratic procedures and obstacles. the driving force of the economy is market psychology and, to reverse the bad climate, a bold economic stimulus must be given in time. mr dombrovskis, we are at a critical turning point, we are gradually emerging from the pandemic crisis, but we risk entering a new impasse the very next day if we do not act decisively and quickly. the speed with which the recovery fund disburses resources is key to achieving the objectives for which it was designed.
in writing. on 20 april 2020 in the committee on transport and tourism, commissioner breton, in response to my question on the need to support tourism, stated that 20-25% of the recovery plan should be directed to tourism. his statement gave hope to millions of workers and small and medium-sized businesses for whom the pandemic is a real threat to their survival. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's tourism sector is not left behind. nor do we know whether tourism will finally receive the support it deserves in national recovery and resilience plans. there is no binding quota and it is up to the discretion of the member states to decide the rate of support. we therefore call on the european commission and in particular commissioner breton to be consistent with his own announcements and to ensure that any national recovery and resilience plan that the commission adopts in the coming period commits at least 20% of the resources to supporting tourism. the benefits for the european economy will be manifold, as tourism, which accounts for over 10% of the european economy, creates millions of jobs, is a growth accelerator and supports many productive sectors of the economy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my particular satisfaction that the european council will be discussing the proposal for a digital green certificate, an initiative initiated by the prime minister of my country, mr mitsotakis. we need a functional, accessible and secure certificate for all european citizens, without discrimination and with respect for their rights, so that european citizens can use it as soon as possible; but also to give a significant breathing space to the tourism and catering sector, which have been irreparably affected, through a coordinated, common approach without exceptions, with clear information in case a member state still requires holders of a digital green certificate to undergo quarantine or examination. however, the timing is critical and it is imperative that the proposal be adopted quickly, well in advance of the summer, to give businesses the necessary time to plan and prepare. the european union must be able to take action quickly and to provide solutions for the benefit of its citizens, and this is the only way to demonstrate to our fellow citizens that a common european approach is the way to do it.
in writing. – the adoption by the commission of the covid-19 digital green certificate is a ‘victory’ in the battle to deal with the serious consequences of the pandemic in our european family. i remind you that it was the prime minister of greece, kyriakos mitsotakis, who first proposed the adoption of a common european certificate to be used by member states. we are making the right move, at the right moment. as vaccinations continue at an increasing pace, the green digital certificate will safeguard one of the basic rights of citizens of our union, namely the right to travel freely and safely, while at the same time it will mitigate the consequences of restrictions imposed by individual member states. the digital green certificate is a particularly important development for southern member states, whose economies rely to a large extent on tourism. our next goal is to complete the legislative process as soon as possible so that the digital green certificate can be deployed before the summer. our citizens are impatient and anxious to exit the vice of this pandemic and to finally return to normality. let us not disappoint them.
mr president, however much the city authorities may try to dress them up in 'environmental-friendly' garb to be accepted by the workers, the same resources are anti-people taxes at the expense of the people's income to pay off the european recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework that the groups will develop. the debate on so-called own resources proves that in the "alliance" of capitalist states and monopolies, "free lunch" exists only for the large groups that the european union and the member states funded inexpensively, in the wake of the pandemic and in order to shield their profitability in conditions of capitalist crisis. the same resources are part of the hard "accounting" that the people will bear, while parts of them, such as digital taxes and the carbon tax, are further used to reward european monopolies in their fierce confrontation with their competitors from the us and china, with the costs being passed back to the people. the anti-people plans of the european union and governments must be met by an organised popular reaction, demanding that the workers no longer pay for the crisis, but those who always create it: the monopolies and their state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly moved and pleased that today, almost all over the world, the blue and white colours of greece and its flag are flying proudly, celebrating the 200th anniversary of the greek revolution, which led to the establishment of the greek state and is a milestone in greek and european history. the messages of the greek uprising, freedom, democracy, peace, independence, justice, are timeless, pan-european, global and today more relevant than ever. thank you so much for your well wishes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how do we want to pay off the debt that will be created by the european recovery fund to deal with the pandemic? with increased contributions from the member states, both through gross national income and vat, or do we want to recognise the need for europe to invent new forms of revenue which will not burden the budgets of the member states and especially the next generations? i think we should avoid the former. in any case, however, the new revenue streams should be consistent with agreed european policies in the context of green growth and digital transition and avoid overtaxation of sectors that are concerned with raising vat rates or sectors that play a decisive role in national elections, such as tourism. if we do not agree on new sources of revenue, which the commission has committed itself to present, we will be faced with an unbearable debt and we must all, on our feet, get to the next day of the pandemic to manage it.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is 25 march. my country and all greeks and greeks everywhere are celebrating 200 years since the revolution of the enslaved greeks and greeks. today, greece is celebrating 200 years since the beginning of the struggle for its national independence and democracy. it is a very big day for all greeks and for all of you who, i believe, are greeks. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to ensure that the european parliament is able to play a full part in the work of the european parliament. in hungary, in poland, in slovenia, in malta, in greece, in italy, there is a very serious problem with the press. but here we are talking about the murder of a man, a woman journalist who was investigating and working for the truth. we're talking about the inalienable right to life. we cannot stand idly by in the face of this horrific reality of investigative journalists being murdered for exposing cases of government corruption. we will not rest until all those responsible are brought to justice. and of course, we can't just record. we must take action, we must take measures. i think that all of us, all of us in the democratic arc, all of us without exception, must support and put pressure on the institutions; we must put pressure on our institutions to provide substantial support for every form of investigative journalism, which is a valuable ally for democracy. the fight for democracy, justice and the rule of law is a fight for the soul and the future of europe that we all love.
madam president, the european union's satisfaction with the joint declaration on eu-turkey relations confirms that turkey is an irreplaceable ally of imperialist plans and of the joint exploitation of hydrocarbons in the aegean and the eastern mediterranean, which weakens its aggression. this is the so-called 'positive euro-turkish agenda' invoked by new democracy, syriza and kinal. the critical reports and the threats of sanctions are part of the bargaining of the united states, nato and the european union with turkey to bind it more firmly to nato, in the context of fierce rivalries with russia and china. the turkish government's anti-people policy towards trade unionists, women and students cannot be used as an excuse for the anti-people policy of the european union. the deepening involvement of the greek bourgeoisie in imperialist projects is proving to lead to the broadening of the agenda of challenging sovereign rights, as evidenced by the recent visit of the greek foreign minister to ankara, to new possibilities of inflammation in the region and to the promotion of dangerous dichotomous projects in cyprus. respect for sovereign rights and the building of mutually beneficial relations require the disengagement from imperialist projects, the closure of foreign military bases, the disengagement from nato and the european union, with the masters of the peoples in their own land.
mr president, i would first like to thank all the epp colleagues, the secretariat, and especially our inta rapporteur, mr christophe hansen, for their diligent work on the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement (tca). we have a deal which is not ideal. however, it’s better than a no-deal situation in which we would have been led to a cliff edge. the tca will enable the european union and the united kingdom to continue to work together. the ratification of the tca safeguards european interests for three reasons. firstly, it increases the legal security for european citizens and businesses that are directly affected by brexit. secondly, it provides a level playing field for our businesses across the channel, and thirdly, it expands our enforcement toolbox to ensure the full implementation of both the eu-uk withdrawal agreement and its protocol. the northern ireland protocol is a cornerstone of the withdrawal agreement and it is instrumental in preserving peace in northern ireland. we must safeguard this. judging from the negotiations leading up to the tca, our relationship with the united kingdom is likely to remain conflictual. the united kingdom may have left the european union; however, it remains an important partner, a trusted ally and a democratic friend. so despite the difficulties, the tensions of the blame game, acting responsibly requires that we must not let our differences take get the best of us. this would only fortify geopolitical rivals, systemic and otherwise, who would simply love to play us against one another.
madam president, the final approval of the renewed european globalisation adjustment fund is a practical response to the concerns and concerns of our fellow europeans. with a broader scope, it will support more european workers who have lost their jobs due to globalisation, technological or environmental changes. i am particularly pleased that, following the insistence of the european parliament, we have managed to achieve a significant lower threshold of 200 job losses. it may also be used retroactively for the period between the end of the previous period and the start of the new period 2021-2027, so that there is no protection gap. but above all, it shows that european citizens are at the heart of our policies and that we are fighting for a better distribution of the benefits and consequences of globalisation.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, after a year of pandemic, the situation is tragic not only in the tourism sector but also in a number of other economic and productive sectors which rely on tourism, such as catering, retail and transport, and in a number of professions, such as those of tourist guide and driver. it is vital for millions of citizens not only to open up tourism but to open it up with caution and with uniform protocols on travel safety, so that the tourist season lasts and the risk of a new wave of virus spread is prevented from being violently interrupted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the conditions for saving the tourist season are therefore as follows: firstly, small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy, must be supported by the member states and by european resources as a matter of priority in order to survive and cope with their now unbearable financial obligations, which have accumulated over the last year. second, to immediately accelerate vaccination as a priority for professionals and workers who come into contact with visitors, before the start of the tourist season, to protect the public health of local populations and destinations; thirdly, to provide for free pre-departure testing for all citizens, both to minimise the risk of transmission of the virus and to ensure equal treatment for all europeans travelling in the coming months, whether they have been vaccinated or not.
madam president, it is a fact that tourism has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic, with incalculable consequences in all the sectors of the tourist industry, such as transport, supply, catering and small and medium-sized producers, leaving behind, unfortunately, many workers, thousands of workers. the debate today may be about the hospitality sector, but it is not limited to it. by their nature, hospitality businesses create positive spill-over effects for the local communities in which they operate, provide jobs, stimulate entrepreneurship and contribute to economic growth. for my country, greece, and for the countries of the south, tourism is the only source of income for local communities. the point, then, is to arrive the next day on our feet. because we are planning for the next day, but we also need to know how to get there and create prospects and opportunities for everyone, with the aim of revitalising and developing the tourism product. this year's tourist year is a historic gamble for the european union and it is our duty to create the right conditions and conditions so that this summer is not lost and becomes the starting point of recovery. we must give a positive overall response to the workers and tourist businesses now, mr breton and mrs zacarias.
the so-called 'green certificate' which you are promoting by means of express procedures is an attempt to justify the fact that no protection measures have been taken for workers in workplaces, transport and schools. the status of the rubber-stamp protocols that have led to hundreds of deaths and a rapid increase in cases is perpetuated, and there is also a release from the state responsibility to shield the public health system, which the european union, governments and business groups consider a cost anyway. you choose to ignore the remarks of the who and european scientific associations that emphasize that vaccination is not proven to prevent the spread, at a time when mutations are spreading, and there is concern about whether they are covered by vaccines. it is a dangerous tool at the expense of people's health and rights, implementing the demands of transport, trade and tourism groups in the context of a fierce confrontation with the us, china and russia over vaccines and control of the digital market. we are also against the certificate because it adds new mechanisms to the digital file with the mass collection, processing and exploitation of medical and other data by the european union, states, employers and groups, in clear violation of fundamental people's rights.
madam president, because we must avoid a repetition of the uncoordinated actions of member states last summer, which accelerated the second wave of the pandemic, we welcome the commission's proposal for a common reliable covid-19 certificate with a view to ensuring everyone's safety and protecting personal data. the free movement of persons is one of the greatest achievements of the european union and that is why we as co-legislators must ensure that the certificate does not introduce new border controls and new discrimination between european citizens. we also want to see an expiry clause in the regulation guaranteeing that the certificates will only be valid for a limited period of time and only for medical use. however, it is not the green certificate that is the magic recipe for dealing with and eliminating the pandemic, but strengthening public health systems, vaccination, treatments and finally ending the systematic rape of the land. so we need to immediately step up vaccination and pressure companies to increase production, while removing patents on vaccines to help countries like india with its 100 million deaths. i call on the european commission to reconsider its position in the world trade organization on the removal of the copyright protection of vaccines.
in writing. it is very important that we have the opportunity today to discuss the european union's relations with india, a country which is playing and is expected to play an important role in economic and geopolitical terms. therefore, areas where there can be a common ground of cooperation between the eu and india, particularly on trade and investment, should be thoroughly explored in order to enhance the connectivity of the two partners, while not compromising on climate change, digital transformation, maritime safety and human and labour rights. the timing is favourable as the eu and india will soon have the opportunity to discuss and exchange views at the upcoming eu-india leaders' summit, which has unfortunately been postponed due to the health crisis facing the country. the european union is now calling on the member states to show their solidarity with india in the face of the particularly difficult crisis it is facing because of the rapid increase in cases of the indian mutation. if the eu does not make a decisive and decisive contribution to resolving this crisis, this problem of india may become a problem of the union itself.
your honor, the best stories start like this: i was passing by the station, bought a ticket for the next train, and got on without knowing where i was going. in some european union countries, if the protagonist has a motor disability, he won't even be able to get inside the station. in several, he will not be able to board any train at all, even if he has planned it in advance, while in most, he will be asked to take the train after two days to have time to prepare for his boarding. it is noteworthy that "most of the time" even after two days no special preparation will have been made. the european commission's discovereu initiative, while offering young people the chance to travel and discover europe, unfortunately does not take into account many young people with disabilities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not used as a means of transport, and that the railways are not used as a means of transport. even if the disabled passenger never manages to become the protagonist of the story i have described to you, let us at least ensure a tolerable functional universality of the rules governing railways for every passenger. commissioner, 2021 is the european year of railways. let's take this opportunity.
mr president, the european defence fund is another instrument designed to promote the imperialist plans of the european monopolies, preparing for dangerous military interventions by the european union in peacetime. it is linked to the european union's strategy for 'independent and autonomous military capability' at the expense of the people. it seeks to shield the independent interests of european groups so that they can take a leading role in the arms market by strengthening the geopolitical position of the european union, and it funds them with some 8 billion under the multiannual financial framework so that they can get ahead of their american, chinese and russian competitors, each of whom serves its own particular interests. the development and production of weapons systems are being integrated into the offensive plans, the cross-border missions of the european union and nato, while in greece the promotion of the increase in the term of office is being promoted. the house also called on the member states to give 2% of the budget to the european union and the same amount to nato, at a time when people are mourning the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people in the pandemic due to underfunding and the degradation of public health systems. such plans confirm the reactionary, anti-people and irreversible nature of the transnational capitalist european union as a strategic adversary of the peoples.
in writing. artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, quantum computing, the internet of things and new cutting-edge technologies are increasingly penetrating our everyday lives, our work, our communication, our economy and our interpersonal relationships. it is now clear that digital services are a key driver of economic development and that new digital technologies will be the catalyst for the digital transition of the european economy and society in the coming years. the digital europe programme is part of this coordinated eu effort to help european businesses, especially smaller and start-ups, to take advantage of the huge opportunities offered by digital transformation, to grow and gain a competitive edge. to achieve this, it is using new tools such as the european digital innovation hubs network, which will provide access to technological expertise to businesses and public administrations with a wide geographical coverage. the successful implementation of the programme will require, first and foremost, a decisive contribution to bridging the digital divide, so that all eu citizens have the skills and knowledge to participate fully in a digitised society. despite significant budget cuts, the programme represents an important first step towards the eu's digital transition and autonomy. but it's not enough! we must accelerate our efforts if we really want to lead the eu in the new digital age.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, i am particularly pleased to welcome today's agreement on the new generation of the life framework programme for the environment and climate action, which is now in line with the ambitious objectives of the european green deal and with a 60% larger budget. the protection of nature and biodiversity remains at the heart of the programme, which will continue to fund projects to strengthen the protection of natura 2000 sites, as well as projects in line with the new european biodiversity strategy. the new provision for strategic nature projects will create synergies with the other union financial instruments and, in particular, with the new common agricultural policy which should contribute to the objectives of the farm-to-food strategy for a sustainable and resilient food system. the four new sub-programmes will give life to projects on nature and biodiversity, the circular economy, climate change mitigation and adaptation, and the energy transition. the new life will support projects to improve energy efficiency, but also to develop small-scale renewable energy sources. it will make a key contribution to the circular economy action plan by providing resources for recycling and resource recovery projects from waste and 'naturally' projects for air, soil, water and chemical management, with a view to zero pollution, will be eligible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there could be no better time to hand over to the european citizens another tool for the green transition, the protection of nature and ultimately of human life. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr torvalds, and also my colleagues, mr vincze, mr rónai, mr niinistö and mr vondra, for their understanding and efficiency. these are essential for the implementation of the european green deal.
the committee on transport and tourism adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one. as regards transport, which accounts for 30% of the total energy consumption in the european union, the aim is to switch to direct or indirect electrification as a matter of priority wherever possible. to achieve this requires huge investments in energy infrastructure right now in our roads, in our ports, in our airports, and even in our homes to prepare for electrification. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. these resources must remain in europe and be used for the production of renewable energy sources with the participation of all citizens and not just a few companies. a very good example mentioned in the report is the energy communities in the tourism sector and the wider industry's shift towards sustainability through energy production and higher efficiency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, commissioner, the just transition fund is a crucial tool for the demining of regions which have been sacrificed on the altar of economic development and electrification of europe, with incalculable consequences for the environment and the health of their inhabitants. the replacement of coal monopoly by modern production restructuring of these regions is the least we can do for the generations of europeans on whose backs the european vision was built. the result of the trilogue satisfies us at first, because it excludes the financing of the gas industry. it is a battle we have fought as the european left and won. we believe it is crucial that spatial transition plans focus on local communities and not be limited to financing large investment projects that will not bring added value to greek regions. the just transition mechanism is a compass for all public investment policies on the path to climate neutrality. we have to ensure that the green transition really leaves no one behind, that it doesn't put labour gains at risk, but creates conditions of collective well-being and doesn't create new social and economic inequalities, but heals existing ones and moves us all forward together.
madam president, the report on the 'working conditions' of mobile workers reflects the need for economic groups to further increase mobility with cheaper labour, today, in conditions of capitalist crisis, and in the future, to increase their profitability. the vast arsenal of directives and regulations of the european union is promoting the inhumane practices of uninsured work, unpaid work, individual contracts. the bolkestein directive allocates wages and galley rights on the basis of country of origin, directive 2008/104 provides for a premium for the slavery agencies, and the european pillar of social rights generalizes minimum rights. the new republic government's bill to abolish the eight-hour day, the generalization of unpaid work, the dissolution of collective agreements, the abolition of the sunday holiday, the strike of the trade union organization and the strike is also being promoted as part of the anti-union strategy. the workers are demanding that the bill on the extraction of funds be withdrawn from parliament, that all the anti-working-class laws of new democracy, pasok and syriza be abolished, and that the demand for a fixed daily working time, seven, five and thirty-five hours, be strengthened.
madam president, with the new reactionary pact on asylum and migration, the european union and the government of the new republic are provocatively baptizing the sharing of repression and deportations in the member states with 'solidarity'. the policy of confining refugees and migrants to the first countries of entry is being strengthened, incorporating and extending the unacceptable eu-turkey agreement, while the dublin regulation remains intact, foreshadowing new moraias, closed prisons, which islanders condemn with their endless struggle, but also new trials and suffering for refugees and migrants. the expulsions involving frontex, which endanger the lives of refugees and migrants, raise questions that are not answered by the responsibility between government and frontex, nor by "working groups" for its alleged correction, while its action is upgraded militarily and violates the sovereign rights of each state, by taking over the guarding of the borders. we demand that all reception centers be closed and no more be built. unlock refugees and migrants, transferring them to human accommodation structures in the hinterland, in order to move them through rapid procedures to their destination countries and apply for asylum.
mr president, at the last summit, at the meeting of the commission and the council with the turkish president, you confirmed that turkey is an 'irreplaceable ally' in nato's dangerous plans in the eastern mediterranean, including the joint exploitation of hydrocarbons. the so-called 'positive euro-turkish agenda' accepted and welcomed by new democracy, syriza and kinal in greece includes the upgrading of the eu-turkey customs union and the ratification of the unacceptable agreement on refugees and migrants which traps tens of thousands of refugees and migrants, victims of the interventions of the european union and nato. in the context of the fierce competition with russia and china, any criticism or threat of sanctions is part of the bargaining process with turkey to make it more closely linked to nato. the competition between the greek and turkish bourgeoisie and their involvement in the wider imperialist rivalries are working against the peoples of both countries and putting them at great risk. in these circumstances, the people's struggle to free themselves from imperialist plans, to close military bases, to respect borders and to create the conditions for building mutually beneficial relations between peoples is of particular importance.
mr president, the report we are discussing today is the worst for turkey this year and it is no accident that we all agree with it, because erdoğan, with his continuing provocative behaviour, is isolating himself outside europe. just before the june summit, the turkish president is again blackmailing europe, again threatening european leaders with the guillotine, again attacking the american president who recognized the armenian genocide, exploiting the crisis in the middle east by posing as the protector of the muslim world, denouncing international conventions such as that of istanbul and montreal and using these issues to rally his extreme right-wing audience, because his popularity is collapsing and the majority of turkish citizens are turning their eyes to the west. so while we believe that turkey can be an important partner for the european union, we cannot continue to give time to an authoritarian leader who is violating human rights, exploiting migration and insulting european values. the suspension of the accession negotiations is a strong and loud message to the turkish president, who, if he does not change his behaviour, will force us to proceed to the complete termination of the talks.
in writing. – in the last week, thousands of rockets have been fired by hamas from gaza towards israeli cities and towns with the aim of causing chaos, destruction, and death. this new round of violence is the result of palestinian incitement, not israeli aggression, and it is the sole responsibility of hamas, with some help from iran. fundamentally, this is about hamas’ dedication to murder jewish people and to raze israel, a liberal democracy – however imperfect – committed to the rule of law. hamas is a terrorist organisation, officially recognised as such by the european union, the united states, australia, canada, and japan. its charter openly calls for genocide and hamas will stop at nothing to achieve this, including murdering civilians – whatever side they may be on. and so, while israel goes to great lengths to avoid civilian casualties on either side, hamas will fire on israeli civilians and then use palestinian children as human shields. it will use mosques and schools to stockpile weapons, it will use hospitals as strongholds and it will kill mindlessly. it is high time for the eu to gain moral clarity and to proclaim that hamas is utterly amoral, it is wrong, and it is a global threat.
madam president, in the european union, the number of cases registered exceeds 31 million and the number of deaths exceeds 700 000. the responsibilities of the european union and of governments are great. low vaccination rates, the opening up of the capitalist economy to the "rubber protocols" of the groups, with no preventive measures and with public health systems almost dismantled, perpetuate the risks for the peoples and make it far away from achieving immunity. vaccines and medicines, from achievements of science and human work, are being turned into gold-digging commodities, becoming the subject of trade wars and confrontations between pharmaceutical and capitalist states for control of the competitive market, which the european union has rushed to promote by signing contracts and keeping the terms secret. while countries in the european union and the united states are withholding millions of vaccines, only 0.2% have been vaccinated in the so-called poor countries. to protect the health and lives of the people requires that vaccine and medicine are not commodities, requires the complete abolition of patent without compensation, a state socialized pharmaceutical industry and international cooperation on research and production, without the barriers of capitalist profitability in the exploitation of all safe and effective vaccines and medicines.
madam president, the covid-19 pandemic has posed unprecedented challenges for the european union and the world. in the words of the greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis: ‘when the threat is universal, its treatment must also be universal.’ it is therefore our moral duty to treat the vaccine as a global public good and to ensure equitable access at affordable prices. we must support developing countries in vaccinating as many people as quickly as possible. the eu is currently one of covax’s biggest donors and we need to continue to massively support it. the eu should formally engage in a constructive and pragmatic dialogue that would allow for the optimisation of the trips agreement in order to deal with these extraordinary circumstances, both immediately and in the long term. but we also need to remain results-oriented and realistic to confront supply-chain issues, to ramp up vaccine-manufacturing capacities through partnerships, both public and private. finally, we need to keep the fire of innovation burning in europe, especially in the health sector, and to use foresight to anticipate and to deal more effectively and efficiently with global crises in the future. dear colleagues, our citizens are depending on us for their well-being. let us not disappoint them.
madam president, commissioner, i am very pleased to see you here. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and we will agree, you know that we support your report with all our heart. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. as long as there's been man, as long as there's been man, as long as the earth moves, there's been migration. it is a dynamic development of human societies. i note that the union is seeking a more integrated approach to refugee and migration policy. we have a problem at the refugee camp, we'll discuss it with mr. rope another time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i am not going to go into the details of the situation in the middle east. the first positive step today is taken with the resolution we have in our hands. the conditions are ripe and we have three more steps to go. opportunities for migration through legal and safe channels, facilitation of access for third country nationals to the european labour market, integration and incentives for young people. if we fix all this, i think we'll be upholding rights and helping both the people and our union.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a very good one. if we do not tackle it with the tools at our disposal, then we will have made a very big mistake. it is the natural consequence of the information economy and as such must be accompanied by rights. it is a question of improving working conditions and, above all, of ensuring wage increases, that is, the fair distribution of the surplus value produced and the cost saved by the synergies between man and machine, which must remain, as my colleagues have said, and especially libe, of which i am also a member, human-centred, that is, a tool in the hands of man and not the nightmarish opposite. the protection of personal data, trade union presence and action in the new digital environment, i.e. democracy, platform taxation and the elimination of discrimination in the selection of workers, must be ensured. the algorithm is a target in the service of man, not the nightmarish opposite. we can lay the foundation for a new reality. these are extraordinary tools that man has created, and man must taste them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. to support them, the european union and governments are allocating a large amount of money from the recovery fund and other programmes with workers' money. the protection of citizens and the rights, allegedly of regulating risks, are aimed at more favourable conditions for profitability for european entrepreneurs. these are false declarations. the many examples: teleworking that takes off intensification, digital platforms, automation and content control with or without algorithms mean a massive dossier and systematic censorship of any radical voice that resists anti-people politics. the ethical use of technology, the motivation for which is the profitability of capital, does not exist. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. the defence of the rights of the people is therefore inextricably linked to the struggle to overthrow the system of exploitation, which has the interests of the groups at its core.
mr president, mr vice-president, the european parliament has long given priority to the development of the field of artificial intelligence, with the aim of promoting innovation and competitiveness and at the same time establishing a climate of consumer confidence, while ensuring the protection of human rights and european values. the field of artificial intelligence is going to change the world as we know it and affect the daily lives of all of us. with the european commission's recent legislative framework proposal on artificial intelligence, europe is taking a leading role in setting digital standards, putting democratic values at the heart of our regulatory framework. this proposal can promote cooperation with like-minded partners, such as the united states, on the basis of common democratic principles and values. the united states is the european union's strongest ally and the transatlantic relationship in the field of artificial intelligence is crucial and decisive. europe has taken a major step towards achieving its digital autonomy, proposing laws on artificial intelligence within a framework of democracy, against authoritarian models claiming the geopolitical reigns of the digital age. the digital future of europe is based on two words, both of which are greek: autonomy and democracy, concepts that are timeless and relevant to artificial intelligence, to europe and to the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, during 2020, on the responsibility of azerbaijan, the dialogue conducted by the minsk group on the peaceful settlement of the nagorno-karabakh issue was abandoned. this resurgence was marked during the hostilities by the widespread use of violence, with many civilian casualties, and by the presence of extremist islamist mercenaries sent in with turkish assistance. the cessation of hostilities was accompanied, however, by the humiliation of armenian prisoners of war and the creation of obstacles to their return, as well as the destruction of armenian cultural and religious monuments in the areas under azerbaijani occupation. the european union has unfortunately been totally unprepared in its response to the neo-ottoman aspirations of turkey and its partners. we must at least now, as the european union, show our determination to achieve the speedy return of the armenian prisoners by bringing azerbaijan into line with the rules of international law and abandoning the use of force. the european union is the shining example of peaceful settlement of disputes in the world and we must spread this example.
the european recovery fund is undoubtedly a practical demonstration of european solidarity. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 1994 to 1999 is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the funds are used in a proper manner. the european parliament, as the only directly elected democratically elected body of the european union, should therefore play its decisive role in monitoring this process. the commission has repeatedly raised the issue of the violation of the rule of law and the fundamental values of the european union. the next six years will see the member states, through their national recovery plans, not only revitalising their economies but also making europe competitive in a new world order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament, as the guarantor of democratic principles and values, cannot be absent from this process and we were very pleased to hear president von der leyen acknowledge this and you will have our full support. if we as the european union ignore the fundamental importance of parliamentary scrutiny for the proper functioning of democracy, then how do we expect national governments to be accountable to their national parliaments?
madam president, a well-known group of reactionary parliamentarians linked to american interests proposed this fraudulent debate and a resolution against cuba, and the european parliament is implementing it on behalf of the european union. the misleading pretexts, on the part of the united states, ngos and their agents, relating to so-called human rights are a serious provocation and serve to intervene in cuba's internal affairs. those who have imposed the blockade against cuba for decades, in addition to other 240 sanctions that the biden government maintains, depriving the cuban people of essential materials, speak of human rights. they speak of the culprits behind the failure of commercialised health care and the millions of victims. while cuba, under blockade, protected the health of its people, advanced in the development of vaccines, kept cases and victims at low levels and has a very important contribution to combating the pandemic in the world. we condemn the unacceptable resolution at the expense of the cuban people. we express our full solidarity with cuba and its people. we demand an immediate end to the barbaric blockade by the united states and all measures against cuba.
mr president, commissioner, i often feel that agreements, strategies and all european directives are beautiful texts, written with the best intentions, but that their practical application, which would substantially improve the living conditions of citizens, is something vague and distant. i would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that the agreement on the new european social fund is a development which will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. it comes at a critical juncture where member states are trying to emerge from the economic crisis, but also continue to shore up the resilience of their societies. in this context, the fight against poverty, inequality and youth unemployment should not only be our own priorities but also the means to achieve them. it is therefore positive that 25% of the programme will be channelled into policies which promote social cohesion, but also support our most vulnerable citizens who have lost their jobs or part of their income. i am also particularly pleased that the member states have committed themselves to channelling sufficient resources to young people and especially to those who are outside the labour market, education and training. however, this programme should be only the beginning and should be accompanied by permanent tools modelled on the sure instrument, in order to cope with possible future crises but, above all, to achieve sustainable development of the european union and to show in practice that the building of a strong social europe is at the heart of our policies.
madam president, the global pandemic provides a challenging backdrop for both the g7 and the eu—us summits. covid—19 has created a common need, our need to heal. the summit is a unique opportunity for the eu to show leadership in healing the world. to achieve this, though, we need more than feel-good media lines and carefully drafted, intentionally vapid conclusions. we need to produce tangible results. we also need to heal the transatlantic relationship, which has been wounded in recent years. it’s time to move past the blame game. it’s time to bury the hatchet. we need to resolve long-standing differences over planes, steel and data. we need to work together to combat unfair trade-distortive practices. we need to agree on a common framework for artificial intelligence and emerging technologies. the pandemic has taught us that we can no longer take anything for granted and that we must fight to preserve what we consider to be most dear to us. so we need to focus now on what brings us together, not on what could tear us apart. looking ahead, we need to safeguard our democratic principles and our common values. we need to make clear that the world’s democracies intend to stand united against autocrats, populists and demagogues. the summits are our chance to prove to the world that the eu can be a leader in the post—covid world. the world is watching. let us show them that we are ready, willing and able.
madam president, i will continue my reflection from where my colleague, younous omarjee, left off. today we are asking the european commission to implement the flexibility regulation which we have worked hard to establish. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. the protection of human rights, democracy, the rule of law, equality, freedom and human dignity. the european union cannot be used to build inhumane detention centres for refugees and migrants. ministers cannot make statements about pending corruption trials and predict the outcome or prosecutors handling corruption cases are prosecuted. we cannot allow journalists to be persecuted and murdered in our member states - and not just in malta. to prohibit the ministries from testifying to public officials only when the truth is at the expense of their administration. for all these reasons, and many others, we cannot accept that european money should be used to discriminate and exclude anyone, anywhere, from any country.
the report, mr president, treats women as an untapped pool of cheap labour to fill gaps in the european union's labour market. it focuses on the competitiveness of business groups rather than on the modern rights of working women. the needs of women, the right to motherhood, to a stable job, are further undermined by the draft law which implements the common objectives of the european union and the big business to abolish the eight-hour workday, the breakdown of the fixed daily working time, work on sundays and holidays and unpaid overtime. the modern technological achievements of science create enormous possibilities for improving the lives of workers. but capitalist exploitation, the policy of the european union and the bourgeois parties are turning them into fetters for men and women, into a tool for increasing the intensification of work and the expansion of the rubber-stamp system based on the reactionary direction of reconciling professional and personal life, reinforcing the degree of exploitation of workers. it is necessary today for women and men to join the struggle en masse to overturn the anti-working class bill of the new republic government, the previous anti-working class laws of pasok and syriza, to strengthen the demand for a fixed daily working time of 7 hours, five days and 35 hours work.
in writing. one of the biggest problems hindering gender equality is the gender segregation in education and employment, i.e. the concentration of women in specific subjects or jobs. although women make up the majority of the european population and of graduates of higher education in the eu, they are still underrepresented in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. established gender stereotypes and prejudices, the entrenched practice of 'exclusion' of women from the opposite sex that prevails in these fields, especially in high-level positions, discouragement often reinforced by the school and family environment, fear of failure and lack of information and promotion of female standards are some of the factors limiting the options and development of women in stem fields. women from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds have even more limited access to these areas, while discrimination and systematic sexual harassment in educational and professional settings lead to further exclusion of women. bridging the gender gap in stem is not only a step towards gender equality and respect for the human rights of women and girls, but will also have a positive impact on economic development and the reduction of the gender pay and pension gap.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would say to commissioner dalli that the voice of autistic people is not widely heard in our societies. this leads to the misconception that autistic persons don’t wish to work, to get educated, to live their lives to the fullest and, eventually, to the deprivation of their fundamental rights. we’re discussing today inclusive employment, when there there’s no real employment at all for most autistic and intellectually impaired people. according to a common stereotype, disabled persons work merely to feel functional, happy and involved, so some kind of unpaid or underpaid job should be just fine for us. the shocking news is that we need a wage in order to make a decent living – and this is not the case for the ones lacking legal capacity. the eu has to lead by example and lay the foundation towards restoring legal capacity with forms of supported decision—making. but even when the problem is solved, the risk of segregated employment will still remain. i am afraid that the new eu disability strategy’s strong emphasis on social enterprises will lead many member states to believe it is the only way of employment for disabled and autistic people. to the contrary, we should do our best to ensure disabled people’s access to the open labour market and inclusive employment instead of only promoting employment in a protected, segregated environment or social enterprises. but most importantly, we need to give voice to these voiceless parts of our society and carefully listen and act upon the concerns.
on behalf of the left group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. if this was a euro match, the crowd would have left the stands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. i would also like to say that individual social rights are at the heart of the rule of law and at the heart of what we see as europe. the european parliament has a duty to protect the citizens of europe. we have a systematic breach here. journalists are being murdered, media outlets are being beaten, judges are being persecuted. so here's a core issue. we cannot leave these rooms unattended, as some people are getting taxed, and i am talking about mr orbán and his friends. the european parliament has spoken, it has worked. the european commission cannot be a parallel universe. please very much move on.
madam president, i would like to thank everybody who worked towards bringing this law to this house. the climate law is the most important law in europe. it is our path to climate neutrality. it should therefore be accordingly ambitious and compatible with science and the paris accord. during the trilogue, we faced the unwillingness of the council to comprehend the nature of the situation, and we arrived at a result that is far from the position of the ep, but also far from the demands – the dictates – of science and the demands of society and the right of youth to climate security that high courts are establishing all over europe right now. the new ipcc report leaked yesterday indicates that the measures we are taking are half measures that will lead to a 1.5o warming already by 2040. the political choices we make now will determine whether humanity will flourish or struggle to survive in the 21st century. our law must be fit for 1.5, not for 55. we must realise that the planet will not abide our impact assessment and cares neither for the spirit of compromise. that is why, with a heavy heart, my political group will not vote in favour of this law. we can and must proceed with greater courage and determination, and we will be by your side in doing that.
madam president, despite your hypocritical concerns, the climate bill is shaped by big business interests and is a tool to shield the profitability of green energy groups, the digital transition. the new democracy, syriza and kinal drink water in the name of the european recovery fund which distributes billions to the groups, while the people are burdened with memoranda, anti-worker abortions, green taxes of individual responsibility, which are its anti-people prerequisites. such regulations wash away environmental crimes with the approval of all governments, such as imperialist wars, surrender of land, forests, to green capitalists, grass-type wasps, burning garbage for electricity destroying the environment and burdening public health. the guilty man does not become the savior. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected. the solution lies in a collective, organized struggle against the policy of governments and the european union which condemns workers and their children to live next to landfills, in polluting industries. it is in the struggle for a radically different path of development for the modern needs of the people, such as life in a truly human environment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the public sector debt transition is the third important instrument of the just transition mechanism to help, in particular, regions and municipalities to face the challenges of climate change. the success of the european green deal depends on effectively addressing the socio-economic challenges that will arise in this process towards climate neutrality. the green transition will only succeed if it is fair. that is why i am pleased with the interinstitutional agreement of april, since the european parliament succeeded in increasing grants for the less developed regions to cope with job losses but also to create new innovative businesses, to provide advisory support for preparation, development and implementation, to select new beneficiaries, with the active involvement of local communities. to ensure that the mechanism complies with the principle of non-harm and to ensure, finally, that taxonomy is included as a monitoring tool in the mid-term review, and this is very important to avoid greenwashing and a greenscale revolution.
madam president, dear commissioner johansson, the ongoing pandemic has forced children to socialise mainly through chatting applications, potentially exposing them more to risks online. this is further exacerbated by the varying degrees of digital literacy in our societies, making some parents feel that they can no longer protect their children. therefore, the need to use technology to combat child sexual abuse online is more urgent than ever. the present text strikes a good balance between privacy, safety and security, enabling online services to detect and report child sexual abuse through the scanning of communications. but this is only a temporary solution and timing is critical. i therefore call upon the commission to urgently come up with a robust legal framework ensuring that technology is used in a manner that guarantees children’s safety online.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. it must coordinate the use and disbursement of the recovery fund funds to the member states, but also tackle the multi-level challenges facing the european union in key areas of foreign policy, and of course in the areas of the rule of law and the protection of human rights. the european union must strengthen its role and influence, particularly in the western balkans region, which will be a key priority of the slovenian presidency, as the prime minister said, in order to prevent forces that deviate from european principles and values from increasing their sphere of influence. the western balkans, which have always been characterised by instability and political upheaval, can only have prospects and economic prosperity through their integration into the european framework. the european union will of course also benefit. the first is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and that is why i am asking you to take a decision on the matter. it is worth noting that the slovenian presidency coincides with the opening of the conference on the future of europe, which is a fundamental process for redefining europe's relations with european citizens.
mr president, i should first like to express my deep sorrow and concern at the murderous attack on a fellow journalist in the netherlands yesterday. and get to the point. homophobia is killing people! the lack of freedom of the press, the refusal to protect journalism is killing it! yesterday samuel died in spain. in greece, we lost jacques, jacques and demetra were murdered, victims of homophobia. we hear things here terrible and terrible. it is the right of the state, he says, of every state to infringe rights. where does that come from? homophobia kills when in hungary lgbtqi people as personalities are criminalized, targeted, subjected to the most severe discrimination by their own state. it is a matter for europe, then. it's not the business of any country's government. in poland, lgbtq-free zones, same discrimination, same violation of rights and a government war of threats and manipulation. without justice, there is no democracy. the delay is complicity and i think we should go into the sanctions process immediately.
madam president, the evolution of the pandemic, the dominance of mutations with possible consequences for the effectiveness of vaccines, combined with the low rate of vaccination, the health protocols-ticket, which expose people to new risks for the benefit of the interests of tourism and transport groups, confirm that the fight against covid-19 is not only tackled with the necessary vaccination. the anti-people politics of contradictions and anti-unionism feeds fear, hesitation, irrationality, undermining vaccination, while the debate on patents in a controlled environment of vaccines and medicines by monopoly groups signals a new round of profiteering and competition. the protection of public health is not an individual responsibility, as you keep saying. the people's struggle for substantive measures, decisive shielding of the public health system and primary care, measures in workplaces and schools, the use of all safe and effective vaccines needs to be strengthened. the experience of the peoples highlights the need for vaccines and medicines, not as commodities to be hoarded by business groups but as a right within the framework of a socialised pharmaceutical industry, overturning the barriers imposed by capitalist profitability and the commercialisation of health, to which the bourgeois political forces and the european union are bowing.
mr president, commissioner, i think we have all come to understand that climate ambition is essential in all policy areas. the admitted failure of the seventh program makes us more demanding today. this new ten-year programme is our last chance, since our own competent scientific services have repeatedly warned us that we are delaying action and that this will lead to widespread and irreversible destruction of the ecosystems that support humanity. systemic change in the economy is what will guarantee prosperity, respecting planetary boundaries and social cohesion, leading to a growth that feeds back and ensures that the transition is done in a fair and inclusive way. for the left, the end of all environmentally harmful subsidies, including fossil fuels, is a top priority, as is the creation of wealth indicators beyond gdp. i am concerned, commissioner, that we are not ambitious enough, so i ask you to listen to the european parliament today and share its views on the new action programme. finally, i would like to thank mrs o'sullivan for her excellent report, which i hope will not be returned unrecognized by the trilogue.
in writing. the new highly contagious mutation of the virus, combined with slow vaccination rates and relaxed restrictive measures, is leading us towards a fourth wave that i very much fear will give the airline and tourism the death blow. air traffic has decreased by more than two thirds compared to 2019. many airlines are rescheduling or cancelling flights. and they risk permanently losing the benefits we had secured in the years before the pandemic to boost connectivity for the benefit of peripheral countries and remote and island regions, something i had personally worked towards as greece's minister of tourism in 2015-2019, having secured the establishment of many new direct flights. for greece and many other countries and regions in europe, air transport is vital, and in particular direct flights are the key to strong tourism development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of air transport services, including the provision of a service to the airlines of the member states. the eu and the member states must be prepared to respond with new measures in the event of a new wave. however, state aid should not be granted unconditionally: must be accompanied by commitments to the economic, social and environmental sustainability of the sector.
madam president, this report shows that you are not concerned about the tragic working conditions on the platforms but about the fact that the united states, american and chinese groups are reaping the lion's share of the profits in the digital economy. the commission is therefore promoting the idea of so-called flexible working, with the aim of boosting the profitability of european groups. what needs to be secured are full labour and social security rights, seven- to five-day to thirty-five-hour days, with wage increases. freedom of association, collective agreements, the right to strike, special health and safety measures depending on the nature of the work, all things that the european union systematically destroys with its 'best practices' which are reflected in legislative excerpts such as the law of the government of new democracy. in the face of the demands of the groups, with guns and telework, for exhausting work, without rights, which are implemented by all bourgeois parties, the workers must organize their struggle bringing to the fore their contemporary needs, to keep the anti-working class abortions on paper, to obstruct the working middle ages you are preparing!
madam president, commissioner, as we all understand, the nature of work is changing, with technology providing platform workers with flexibility in the type and timing of their work, as well as an additional income. at the same time, the use of algorithmic applications and artificial intelligence are creating innovative services for the benefit of consumers and businesses. it seemed odd, during the pandemic, when thousands of rig workers kept several businesses afloat, like the catering industry. however, what must not change is our will to ensure that these workers have the same rights as those in the traditional economy. we must ensure the health and safety of workers on platforms, their access to healthcare and social welfare services and the effective exercise of their rights to collective representation. but above all, we as legislators need to ensure that legislation keeps pace with the pace of technological developments and understand the breadth of platforms by collecting up-to-date data on this form of employment. in conclusion, i therefore call on the european commission to table a legislative proposal without delay which will clarify the existing legal uncertainties, while ensuring fair working conditions for workers on platforms.
madam president, this is not a conflict between the friends of the platform and the enemies of the platform. here the friends of progress do not clash with the others who are in the last century. this is where the question comes in who are the people who don't want workers' rights. the fear of the past, which i have heard many times, is that people have rights and people must have rights in the new circumstances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. self-regulation, which i've heard a lot of in recent years, means that the strong will win. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. instead of the algorithm being able to hire and fire, humans will be in charge and regulate how platforms manage the data that workers and consumers generate, while workers will retain control of their data, whether they're still working on the platforms or have left them. there will be union representation. it is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of democracy. so here we can ally ourselves with quite a few and it is certain that we will clash with some others.
mr president, in greece the people have been confronted with great fires and floods which have caused loss of human life and destroyed homes, small farms and livestock facilities and hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest. it is appropriate to try to disorientate under the pretext of climate change in order to fuel the eu's cost-benefit strategy, which has been implemented by all governments, as well as the current strategy of the new republic, a strategy that strips and commercialises civil protection services, which considers the necessary protection projects ineligible and which hands over the forests for exploitation to monopoly groups. the much-publicized rescue eu, which recycles the lack of resources from country to country and usually arrives after a tragedy, has shown that the people who are self-sacrificing to defend their lives and livelihoods are on the battlefield during the critical 24 hours, while the under-resourced state services are unable to respond. as for the solidarity fund, it has been proven that it does not compensate the affected ordinary households. the people must fight in an organized way for immediate, 100% compensation to the victims, for the enormous shortages of personnel, means and infrastructure, and for the necessary fire and flood control projects, under the responsibility of the state.
mr president, the effects of climate change are now evident. the natural disasters, which have been increasing in recent years, irreparably damage natural oxygen lungs, destroy citizens' property and infrastructure and have incalculable effects on key productive sectors of our economy, such as agriculture and livestock, which are the core of economic activity in the countries of the european union. in particular, my home country of greece has been hit in recent years by unprecedented deadly fires and floods. to appreciate the scale of the ecological disaster, it is enough to mention that, since the fires of last august alone, over a million acres of forest have been burned to ashes, hundreds of animals have been burned, and many people have seen their livelihoods destroyed. i would like to express from this podium of the european parliament our sympathy and solidarity with all those affected and to tell them that we stand by them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is fortunate that the union is showing its solidarity in practice, but that is not enough. the greek government attaches great importance to tackling climate change, taking concrete initiatives, but what is needed now is a holistic and unified european policy to prevent and immediately address these extreme phenomena that threaten the safety and life of all of us. we are not going to be able to do that, and we are not going to be able to do that.
mr president, we all experienced a summer of social, economic and environmental devastation, even in countries with state-of-the-art public infrastructure and civic protection capabilities. as the ipcc report makes crystal clear, these disasters are not natural. they are not acts of god. they are the acts, or rather the inaction, of our governments to follow science and act to adapt and mitigate. the climate can no longer be called force majeure. it must be seen as force insuffisante of politicians and our governments to perform our basic duty to protect the lives, the health and the property of our citizens, of our people. in my country, 150 000 acres burned. we have our first climate refugees. or should we call them migrants? what does ‘just transition’ mean for them? the just transition mechanism guarantees that no one would be left behind, that the energy transition is guided by climate justice. the same must hold true for the people whose lives are destroyed by anthropogenic climate disasters. we must urgently redesign the solidarity fund, both in structure and in volume to be up to the task. we cannot stand in solidarity with the victims of our own acts and inaction.
in writing. the deadly floods in northern europe and the uncontrolled fires in southern europe leave no room for misinterpretation of the consequences of climate change, which are becoming more devastating every year. in greece, this year's fires caused enormous ecological damage, burning 1.5 million acres and trapping the fire-affected areas in an economic and social impasse. farmers, ranchers, beekeepers and resin collectors have suffered total destruction and, unless they receive substantial support, will be forced to abandon their land, which will be reduced to a desolation. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted to the following undertakings: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european network of national centres for the prevention of carcinogens at work. all available european and national resources should be mobilised immediately and the national recovery and resilience plan should be revised to adapt to the urgent needs of the fire-affected areas. in the long term, in the context of adaptation to the climate crisis, new european tools must be created and resources secured, both for the prevention of natural disasters and for the rehabilitation of affected areas and support for local communities.
madam president, the crocodile tears we shed over the plight of the afghan people, and especially women, after the taliban takeover, are not enough to erase the historical responsibilities of the european union, nato and the united states of america. in the 1980s, the eec and its member states supported and financed the forefathers of the taliban to overthrow the people's government which was implementing equal rights and freedoms for men and women. the european union also used various pretexts in 2001 to justify the imperialist intervention and the occupation army, which resulted in thousands of deaths, displacement, poverty and destitution for the afghan people. the question of the creation of a european union military force for new corresponding interventions throughout the world is provokingly reappearing today. at the same time, the european union considers the taliban, which the united states has provided with tens of billions of dollars worth of equipment, as potential partners in order to advance the plans of the european monopolies in a country of key geopolitical importance, in the context of the confrontation with the united states, china and russia. it is necessary today to intensify the struggle for the rights of afghan refugees to asylum, international protection, health, housing, work in the countries of their final destination, against the interests of business groups and in breach of the capitalist system that creates wars, interventions, poverty and refugees!
madam president, i wonder if the situation in afghanistan will go down in history as the persecution of women. because that is what it is and that is how it should be viewed by the rest of the world. afghan women are no longer allowed to live as human beings, they are not even allowed to dream. for all these women and their children, we must insist that respect for their rights be a basic precondition for any contact with the taliban. but we must treat it as a multi-layered crisis and consider all available options for providing humanitarian aid and contributing towards stabilising the region. the european union must act coherently in this crisis, with a single foreign policy, and not allow the situation to be handled by individual member states.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, what is happening in poland is particularly worrying because the circumvention of basic principles of the rule of law is affecting the very core of the principles, of democracy and of our union. the attempt by the political alt-right to present as a given, as a de facto right of a member state and in particular of a member state government to cast a shadow over democracy, is something that i think cannot but be stigmatised, something that must of course be condemned. what kind of european union is it that tolerates the systematic persecution of judicial officials in its member states? what kind of european union is it that swallows the gross violations of the human rights of its citizens, that tolerates being targeted and persecuted by the alt-right, that is, by the extreme right, everything that from its own ideological point of view is considered different and minor? what kind of european union is this, where the press, the journalists - i am a journalist and i can feel it - are up against the wall and against the press monopolies? the polish authorities are deliberately and repeatedly violating the rulings of the european court of justice on the rule of law and the commission continues to act as a mere disturbed observer. it is, of course, the inalienable and unquestionable right of poland and the polish people to vote and to elect as they please, but it is also our right to defend our beliefs about the european union, democracy, it is our right not to tolerate policies which, a century ago, plunged europe into the deepest darkness. europe cannot go back to the past. and poland i think should not go back. he must come with us to democratic europe. there's no other way. we must act decisively here.
madam president, gender equality cannot exist in the european union unless we first eliminate gender-based violence against women and lgbti people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. how can we expect to combat gender-based violence when, even today, there is no comprehensive european strategy to eliminate it or when gaps and divergences in member states' legislation still exist? the commission must urgently propose a broad, holistic directive to put an end to this systematic form of violence, horizontally, in the european union. to achieve this, gender-based violence should be introduced as a new area of crime in article 83 of the treaty and therefore serve as a legal basis for ensuring common legal definitions and common minimum standards to prevent and address gender-based violence. gentlemen, we cannot afford to waste any more time. i therefore call on you to rise to the occasion and to vote in favour of the report.
mr president, food systems have a unique potential for transition to sustainability, which is critical to the success of all global goals. as europe plans its resilience in the age of pandemics, it must and must undertake a massive transformation in the food hub. this is not only our debt to future generations, but also a real opportunity to create a new production and consumption model that ensures resilient food systems and climate neutrality and provides good food for all, with fairness for producers and respect for the earth. the new york summit must be deeply participatory and lead to a new catalytic political dynamic, where action for the planet is synonymous with action for people. the european union must not only strive for development, but also lead by example and in its trade agreements with third countries.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the headline of politico is very harsh: the us is imposing sanctions on bulgarian high-ranking officials but the united europe doesn't give a damn. something's going on here. if the united states of america attacks a member state of our union, we must look at how we can support that member state, but if the americans are right, which they are, then someone is not doing his job well. this is a huge hypocrisy on a subject where, as i have pointed out, america is right. the european parliament has been crying out about this for a long time and rightly so, and as for mrs von der leyen, mrs johansson and the commission, i think they are not doing their job properly. we in the european parliament have been aware of the problem of corruption in the bulgarian government from an early stage. in our resolution of october 2020, we had referred to institutionalized corruption in the judicial system, to the misuse of european funds, to the silencing of press freedom and, in general, to the collapse of the rule of law. that's what we said. the commission's reaction was very, very lukewarm, because in both the annual reports on the rule of law, this year and last year, the strongest expression it used was that the situation is worrying. but really for whom? because for those who break the law, it is of no concern whatsoever. there are clear indications that european funds are fuelling corruption channels, especially by supporting media that are mouthpieces of the government. however, mrs von der leyen, in her reply to this question in the last week of august, claimed that parliament had not put forward any specific proposals. but that is the job of mrs von der leyen and the commission. for more than two years parliament has been identifying the problem, its mechanism of development and its remedy, but the commission has systematically avoided it. i'll remind you of one last thing: a few years ago, in 2015, because the government of that time had a different view on economic policy, you were so strict with my country that you wanted to throw it out of the european union. but on matters of the rule of law, democracy, freedom of the press, i see that you are too relaxed and too lenient. i think that you should take action on the bulgarian question, as you did on the polish question. right away.
madam president, once again the european union is issuing a provocative resolution against the cuban people, the government and the communist party. the eu, to serve its own interests at the expense of the cuban people, uses the us intervention plan, the anti-cuban mafia, and very few forces inside, which are magnified by a well-paid propaganda mechanism (media, social networks, ngos in close connection with agencies of all kinds). their selective human rights sensitivities are a deceptive tool of interference. the criminal blockade and the 245 sanctions that the biden administration maintains are immense crimes that deprive the people of cuba of their rights, goods and services. the eu, which leaves the people exposed, is annoyed by cuba's internationalist contribution to combating the pandemic, which guarantees free health for its people, who in conditions of harsh sanctions develops five vaccines in the battle against covid19 with their own forces. cuba is not alone. the intervention plans will not pass. the peoples of the entire world express their solidarity with the struggle of cuba and its people to defend the gains of their revolution.
i am not going to go into that. i would like to thank mrs regimenti for the excellent report we have been able to help draft. one in three women has experienced the nightmare of gender-based violence, often in the family environment, without the necessary protection, justification and support. during the pandemic, this violence has increased due to the forced confinement in the home, making it difficult for women to access effective protection and support. but the full range of violence against women is not recorded and is not adequately reflected in official european data. in several member states, the impact of domestic violence on women and children is underestimated when decisions are taken on the custody of a child and, although child abuse is a clear criterion for determining custody, in cases of domestic violence against the other parent rather than the child, it is often ignored. this report is very important because for the first time parliament is putting the impact of violence on children, as well as the impact on abused women, at the centre of its proposals. and we are sending a clear message. failure to recognise and address incidents of domestic violence in the determination of child custody and visiting rights constitutes a violation of the right of women and children to life and to a life free from violence and is incompatible with the best interests of the child. in cases of domestic violence, custody is incompatible with the rights and safety of victims because of the serious impact on women and children and the risk of continuing violence after separation. for this very reason, we believe that withdrawing custody and visitation rights from the abusive partner and giving sole custody to the mother if she is a victim of violence is the only way to prevent further violence and secondary victimization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report states that gender-based and domestic violence against women is a scourge of society and that to stop it in all its forms we must all take action. we must, as a top political and social priority, strike at its root and put an end to everything that sustains and reproduces it. the istanbul convention must be ratified and implemented immediately by the member states which have not yet done so, and by the european union itself. we need binding european legislation, a holistic directive to prevent and address gender-based violence. the safety of victims and their access to support structures and services, financed from state and community resources, and universal and quality medical and psychological support, including sexual and reproductive health services, must be ensured. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. provision should be made for mandatory training of judicial, police and forensic staff in all forms of violence and its mechanisms. a permanent mechanism should be established to provide harmonised, reliable and comparable data on gender-based violence to be used to develop appropriate prevention and response policies. we have to address economic violence against women. financial independence is a necessary condition for them to escape an abusive relationship. in this respect, the proposal for a directive on an adequate minimum wage and the proposal for binding measures on pay transparency are very positive. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's gender equality policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's gender equality policy.
i am not going to go into that. mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who have worked on this important dossier. i am very proud of the outcome of our committees. the report will be the starting point for the debate on a common european response, which will culminate in the legislative proposals of the committee on the elimination of gender-based and domestic violence at the end of the year. we have adopted a progressive report which creates a comprehensive framework for the effective protection of women and children from domestic violence and for the resolution of parental custody issues with the best interests of the child as a primary concern. but i want to make a special point: it is very worrying that in some member states concepts such as 'parental alienation' or similar conditions are accepted as a criterion capable of depriving an abused mother of custody. this practice is often used by abusive parents as a strategy against victims attempting to report cases of child abuse or gender-based violence, and this is despite the fact that the major mental health institutions, the world health organization, the american association of psychologists, psychiatrists, physicians and others, have rejected the use of the syndrome of "genetic alienation" as lacking the necessary scientific evidence. the report is a clear message to all. we call on the member states not to recognise the 'parental alienation syndrome' in their legislation and to discourage or even prohibit its use during judicial proceedings, in particular during the check for the presence or absence of violence. and we do this on the basis of the recommendations of grevio and cedaw and the united nations special rapporteurs. ladies and gentlemen, gender equality cannot exist unless we first eliminate gender violence. we must send a clear message from this house today. i therefore call on you to adopt the report as voted for by our committees.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am particularly pleased, mr president, that this report is the culmination of the reports from european citizens, proving that the european parliament is listening to their concerns. but let's see what the numbers say: only 1% of all the reports received by the committee on petitions each year concern disability issues, at a time when there are approximately 87 million disabled people in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this very comprehensive report focuses on a number of fundamental issues for the lives of disabled people in the european union, which i also supported during the negotiations as the shadow rapporteur for the epp: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states. but to make this a reality, a real culture of inclusion, better cooperation between member states and more effective exchange of best practice is needed, but above all the effective implementation of the european disability strategy, with regular progress measurement and ensuring the participation of disabled people at all stages of its implementation. only in this way will we ensure modern european inclusive societies, where people with disabilities can enjoy all rights and freedoms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the subject, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to express its views on the subject. let's make this change soon, so we can all have an equal share.
i am not going to go into that. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the price is tragic and unacceptable, but not inevitable. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. our families, our loved ones and we use the roads every day, whether as drivers, pedestrians, cyclists, and we are all potential victims of asphalt. our report is a roadmap that will deliver results and lead europe to meet the target of reducing deaths and serious injuries by 50% by 2030. however, the 2030 target is only the next step. we must make it a top political, social and personal priority to achieve zero deaths and serious injuries by 2050, by implementing the zero loss vision. our aim is ambitious, but i am convinced that it is also achievable. we already know what factors are responsible for most deaths. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am pleased that the european commission has set itself a new target of reducing deaths and serious injuries by 50% by the end of the decade and it is perhaps more important that in order to achieve this target it introduces a new, holistic approach, the safe system approach. this approach is based on the assumption that avoidance of death and serious injury is possible even if human error is never eliminated; safer vehicles, safer infrastructure, which will reduce the risk of human error, coupled with a strong health system that responds immediately to needs on the asphalt. in our report we address the most basic causes of death and serious injury and propose concrete measures, both at european and national level. i will mention a few: the role of infrastructure is crucial. the european roads need to be systematically recorded and evaluated so that investment is directed to the most dangerous points as a matter of priority. the necessary national and european resources should therefore be secured and all financial instruments, including the recovery and resilience fund, should be fully mobilised. speed is a killer. it is unacceptable for our society to accept as a speed limit within urban areas where pedestrians and cyclists travel at 50 kilometres per hour. although driver fatalities are steadily declining, pedestrian and cyclist fatalities are unfortunately still alarmingly common, and in many cases increasing. there are now many examples of cities that have reduced the speed limit to 20 miles an hour, and the benefits are enormous. we expect the european commission to do the right thing and to make a european recommendation immediately to introduce the 30 km/h limit horizontally in all european cities. but outside cities too, speed must be moderated, even by technical means such as intelligent speed control systems. the car is not a means of entertainment and excitement, as the industry tries to convince us, but a means of transport whose main criterion is safety for all users of the infrastructure. we also propose zero tolerance for alcohol and drug use and the proper enforcement of the rules even across borders, and we call for adequate support to be ensured for the families of road accident victims. the road safety performance of european countries must finally be brought to a close. the worst-performing countries need the same support and expertise, and the european union can play a catalytic role in this. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to road transport. i would also like to stress our call for a european year of road safety to raise awareness and inform european citizens about vision zero, the new european target of reducing road deaths by 50% by 2030, our new strategy and how they can save lives on europe's roads. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and for having substantially enriched the report with important proposals which have been adopted by large majorities. i hope that we will have the opportunity to continue our cooperation in the years ahead, with the aim of making the ambitious european road safety policy a reality. we will of course also continue our cooperation with the european commission, and in particular with the road safety coordinator, mr baldwin, whose dedication to improving road safety in europe is truly admirable and valuable.
mr president, the report reflects the bitter struggle between the united states and china for capitalist primacy, with the european union seeking cooperation and also to limit china's influence, to encircle russia. it highlights the eu-us competition for a bigger share of the green and digital growth-focused pie, where the eu aims to further boost the profitability of european groups. it promotes the aggressive autonomy of the european union, the partnership with nato with gigantic military exercises, bases, a new arms race. it is linked to the military agreements between greece and the united states and between greece and france, which are dangerous for the people and are presented as guarantees of security and stability. the new democracy government, with the support of the bourgeois parties, is turning our country into an imperialist hotbed. targeting the people, sending patriot missiles, troops to saudi arabia, preparing for mali. therefore, the defense of the territorial integrity of the people becomes a real meaning when it goes hand in hand with the struggle against the imperialist plans, to close the foreign bases, to abolish these dangerous agreements, to liberate greece from the european union and nato, with the people in power and owner of the wealth that it produces.
mr president, the change of presidency in the united states of america has undoubtedly marked a new, much more positive beginning in euro-atlantic relations. after a period of systematic american withdrawal from iconic international organizations and agreements, the election of president biden has given a new lease of life to american foreign policy, as was also evident during his visit to brussels. however, since the recent european parliament report on eu-us relations was drawn up, two decisive events have occurred which are troubling the european union: on the one hand the withdrawal of us troops from afghanistan and the seizure of power by the taliban, on the other the sudden agreement between the us, australia and the uk, which has brought to mind something we have repeatedly discussed in this chamber, namely the need for a truly unified and coordinated european foreign policy, and the need to develop europe's autonomous defensive expansion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, in a very tense budgetary context, the european union has had recourse to trust funds, thus enabling it to respond to extremely serious crises. this practice is light years away from the budgetary orthodoxy of the european parliament. the european parliament ultimately supported this approach by a majority, but this was primarily to ensure that the eu could not remain indifferent to the suffering and misery faced by refugees and migrants. what is a miscalculation in the light of humanitarian imperatives is in fact a budgetary anomaly. with the ndici-global europe, our new instrument for financing the european union's external policy, and with the union's humanitarian policy for the coming years, we can hopefully put the practice of trust funds behind us in the near future. the creation of new trust funds in the future should be a last resort. the european union's multiannual financial framework is a timid return to normalcy. however, more is needed. crises must be tackled in a more strategic way and not as the exception rather than the rule. if the underfinancing of humanitarian action is to remain chronic, and for many, there is every reason to believe that it will be, the budget of the european union should be endowed with sufficient resources to respond to situations of distress, with due regard for the budgetary prerogatives of our parliament. until the trust funds are implemented, we must try to deal with and improve the control of the european parliament.
madam president, it is well known that turkey is the country that has added fuel to the fire in the middle east. it is the country that has tried in every way to hit greece, even by arming the illegal immigrants. it is therefore hypocritical and outrageous to see the european union ready to give more money to turkey, when we know very well that the euros that erdogan receives are being turned into weapons aimed at greek soldiers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not disrupted, and that the fishing fleet is not disrupted.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, since the beginning of the pandemic we have repeatedly called (the tran committee, myself, the task force on tourism, the task force) for measures aimed at greater coordination and deeper cooperation between member states under the leadership of the european commission. since june 2020, we have emphasised in a parliament resolution the need to establish uniform protocols and measures to facilitate movement within the european union. in october 2020, the european union strategy for sustainable tourism, adopted last march, called for a common vaccination certificate, as well as a common and non-discriminatory european union protocol on safety and health. the european digital covid certificate is a positive step, but it has come too late. the european reflexes have not been activated in time despite our repeated appeals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is unacceptable that the tourism sector, which generates more than 10% of european gdp, does not have a european tourism policy, does not have a budget for tourism and does not have a european agency to support tourism in crises and improve its competitiveness. we all know that the pandemic is not over yet, and the future holds unprecedented challenges for the tourism industry, especially in the context of combating the climate crisis. millions of jobs and smes need europe's support to survive and adapt. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
madam president, according to the european commission, in 2018 fossil fuel imports cost us €331 billion. at current prices, this annual cost would be close to one trillion euros, well above our joint investment for the recovery and resilience fund and slightly below the entire seven-year community budget. so our dependence on fossil fuels is not only destroying our children's future, not only holding us geopolitically hostage, but it is an economic bottleneck. we need to rapidly increase investment in energy transition, in cheap and clean energy production and deep savings. and we see that europe needs more tools to deal effectively with global crises and challenges that are beyond the capabilities of individual member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels. the commission should immediately consider bold pan-european measures to extend the social tariff, reduce vat on energy and price the domestic energy. let us not allow a new 1974.
in writing. the increase in electricity prices, due to the rapid increase in natural gas prices, as well as the prices of emission allowances, within the european emissions trading system, brings the issue of energy poverty in europe and the world into focus. this phenomenon not only affects european energy consumers and particularly the most vulnerable social groups, but also jeopardises the objectives of the european green deal to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. it is therefore a matter which requires a pan-european approach and an immediate solution. the greek government has already tabled a specific proposal for the establishment of a transitional compensation fund to deal with the effects of the increase in energy prices. according to the greek minister responsible, kostas skrecas, the fund will draw revenues from the auctions through the emissions trading system, which will then be distributed to the member states, proportionately and according to specific criteria. the eu - and rightly so - finally accepted and implemented the greek prime minister's proposal for a european green certificate. i am convinced that he should do the same now with his proposal to deal with the energy crisis in an effective and sustainable way.
mr president, a few months after the adoption of the 'greece 2.0' plan, workers have already had a bitter experience of the anti-people provisions of the new super-memorandum of the european union recovery fund. the fund, which was voted in by new democracy, syriza, the other bourgeois parties in our country, distributes people's money like mammoth subsidies to the green and digital development groups to guarantee their profitability, burdening the people with barbaric prerequisites, such as the european union's cut-off law, which abolishes the eight-hour day and trade union rights, the dissolution of social security, new taxes, expensive electricity and consumer goods. economic policy, whether expansionary or restrictive, in crisis and recovery, serves the demands of capital for its profitability, not the needs of the people. a real solution is to organize the workers' popular struggle for increases in wages, pensions, the overthrow of anti-work laws, for strengthening the public health system, primary health care, for staffing and measures in schools, where conditions of hyper-transmission of coronavirus are forming. it is the struggle against the interests of the monopolies and their governments, so that the people can become the true owners of the wealth they produce.
mr president, dear colleagues, the european union is based on the principles of unanimity, solidarity and cooperation. we share the same values and aims of securing joint responsibility. the common european asylum system (ceas) is founded on mutual minimum standards for asylum procedures. despite the consecutive progress on the ceas, there are still significant inequalities between the member states in the granting of international protection offered at the union level. the reception conditions and the system for determining the member states responsible for asylum seekers. in order to better address these inequalities and ensure international protection for asylum seekers, we should aim at two distinct actions: first, it is crucial to engage and provide guidance on the situation in the specific countries of origin, and that asylum seekers are able to access international protection in a safe region, as close as possible to their origin. this would enable them to be closer to their place of origin and their identity while tackling the problem, which is huge. secondly, in case that this does not succeed, it is urgent to ensure a sustainable and fair distribution of certain obligations among member states while strengthening practical cooperation among them. we need to promote union law and operational standards to ensure a high degree of uniformity as regards asylum procedures and protection needs across the union. in particular, increased operational and technical support should be provided to those member states whose systems are subject to disproportionate pressure. the creation of the european union agency for asylum could empower the role of the european asylum support office (easo), boost the implementation of ceas and ensure a stronger presence in the operations of each member state.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with today's report on the 'farm to fork' strategy we are paving the way for a radical transformation of food systems for the benefit of producers, consumers and the earth. the spread of organic farming and the setting of binding targets for the drastic reduction of chemicals in fertilisers, pesticides and antibiotics on the farm are essential to ensure that the food on our plate not only does not burden our health, the environment and natural resources, but also offers new prospects for farmers. the key to success will be to provide consumers with substantial information on scientifically based nutrition labels and on the environmental footprint of food. i therefore call on the commission to translate the strategy into concrete legislative commitment in line with the priorities we are setting today in this report, to assess the national strategic plans for the common agricultural policy in the light of the strategic objectives and to ensure transparency in the process of evaluating them. in conclusion, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for their excellent work and to wish us that the result of the vote tomorrow will be kept intact.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, social policy is part of the eu’s duties and, as parliamentarians, it is important to ensure that we continue the legacy of the social market economy into the 21st century. it is true that progress also has a social dimension, in addition to the economic one, progress in which everyone can play a part and which allows economies to grow, reduce poverty and address inequality. but, unfortunately, the covid—19 pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on different regions, with the most vulnerable groups bearing the most severe impact. this report has indeed touched upon a number of these covid—related challenges and includes positive elements such as the epp’s views on a european care strategy with a strong gender dimension, but also on one of the biggest challenges of our times: providing the right sets of skills so that our workforce can harness the benefits of the digital and green transitions. however, the report lacks pragmatic solutions. in this regard, boosting europe’s competitiveness and giving smes access to funding, addressing red tape and assuring family—friendly policies – empty. in addition, the report also fails to respect the principle of subsidiarity, touching upon issues which can be better treated at national level, closer to the citizen. the recovery from the pandemic will require systemic european action, but also an innovative approach, as well as one which takes each member state’s different needs into account. let’s make sure that we use the unprecedented amount of funds to change what doesn’t work, but in a smart and a pragmatic way.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, it was a very good job that was done and we would like to thank the rapporteur for helping with both the dialogue and the synthesis to get a very good result. the report is in our view very much in the right direction. it is a shared conviction that in the post-covid era - and we are still in the midst of the pandemic - bold policies and changes in the economic governance of the european union are needed to help our society cope with the impact of the crisis. this is a matter of the happiness of all people, not just some. as we go through the green and digital transition, which is unfolding alongside an ageing population, we realise that the european economy, labour relations and social affairs will have to adapt accordingly and very quickly. the question is in which direction. with this report, with this composition of all the members, or at least most of the democratic arc, we have found the direction to take. i would therefore like to say that safeguarding the labour, social and trade union rights of workers, including those working in the digital sector, is at the heart of our proposals. the man must be the centre of attention, the women, the handicapped, all the people. it is a good day today for workers in the european union.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, today's resolution is particularly important for many reasons, and let me mention a few. firstly, because we finally have a resolution which is really focused on artists; secondly, because it includes not only people on stage but also those who work behind the scenes, behind the lights of the cinema, that is, without exception, cultural workers; thirdly, because we are touching on the issue of equal access to social security, to social protection; fourthly, because we are essentially discussing a single european framework for working conditions in the cultural and creative sectors. finally, this resolution is extremely important because we are clearly calling for measures to be taken to combat all forms of harassment, violence or any form of abuse within the culture.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, i think it is our inaction, the inaction of the european commission, that has brought us here and we have a responsibility for that. we also saw an alt-right "show" with the prime minister. what has happened here today in the european parliament is an ideological struggle. why is the european union built? we have to start all over again. the concepts of human rights and the rule of law cannot be interpreted 'à la carte' to serve the interests of governments, mr prime minister. this decision was a customized decision by the polish government to confirm its own ideology of civil rights, with the tool of the so-called constitutional court. for the democratic arc, for the left, one thing is non-negotiable: the rule of law and human rights. other issues of economic policy or green transition we can negotiate, but we don't negotiate issues of human rights and the right of every woman to do what she wants with her body. the same applies to the inalienable right of every human being to be able to identify and define himself as he wishes. poland must remain in europe, but with european values, not with the values of the alt-right.
in writing. – this is the first european parliament report dedicated to the eu’s relations with taiwan, and it is both important and timely. i believe it embodies a very balanced approach, and one that seeks to be proactive rather than provocative. there has always been a tacit understanding that the bilateral investment agreement with taiwan would follow once the china agreement on investment had been concluded. this was before the unprecedented move by china to impose unwarranted sanctions, not least against members of this parliament, and we are now unable to proceed until this issue has been resolved. therefore, there is a strong and convincing argument in favour of reassessing this time-schedule, and of opening negotiations on a bilateral investment agreement with taiwan sooner rather than later. this is important and timely as the eu aims to improve supply chain resilience for semi-conductors, which are critical to achieving our digital transition goals. as taiwan will be investing in new manufacturing plants in the united states, we need to create the necessary framework and conditions to facilitate similar investments in the eu. the bilateral investment agreement with taiwan is clearly a step in the right direction on the path to europe’s strategic autonomy.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, as our resolution states, it is vital that the cop26 forge a new consensus on the necessary climate action and ambition to achieve global climate neutrality by the mid—century, and on robust short-term and medium-term policy measures. in our resolution, we acknowledge and commit to act upon our responsibility for our historical greenhouse emissions and the development gap between the global north and the global south. we recognise the connection between the underlying causes of pandemics, biodiversity loss and climate change. we embrace the need for urgent systemic change for the well-being for all within planetary boundaries. we demand the end of all direct and indirect fossil fuel subsidies by 2025 at the latest. we admit that, taken together, all new indices, including our own, imply a sizeable increase in global emissions unfit for 1.5. we commit to a significant additional increase in adaptation finance, prioritising grants and debt relief. we submit that the eu’s leadership through example is crucial to engaging third countries in the fight against climate change. as it stands our resolution probably represents the most progressive and ambitious mandate on climate action in the world. it is now our duty in this house and in the commission, in cop26 and beyond, to back up our words – all of our 24 ‘whereases’ and 23 ‘regards’ and 125 paragraphs – with action and prove, above all to the younger generation, that we, as representatives of the european people, can deliver more than the world’s best ‘blah blah blah’.
mr president, the debate ahead of cop26 is using the degradation of the environment as a pretext to promote the 'green transition' being adopted by the eu, the us and china, despite their differences over who gets the biggest slice of the pie. green energy liberalisation, desalination and the closure of hydroelectric plants, the monoculture of renewable energy with the sole criterion being the profits of the groups, are driving precision, energy poverty and leading to very expensive and inaccessible 'green' public housing. with the eu strategy, all greek governments, the current and the previous ones, have opened the door to the 'green monopolies', leaving the forests, the people and their livelihoods unprotected from fires, floods and earthquakes. these, as well as the consequences of the imperialist interventions of the eu, the usa and nato, the loss of thousands of lives and the destruction of the environment are taken for granted. the peoples therefore have nothing to expect from cop26. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a welcome step forward in the fight against pollution and the protection of the environment.
madam president, the debate today is very timely, and i congratulate you, commissioner. the fascist is ashamed to say he is a fascist, but because the events in rome are coming together with the events in athens you will hear that the nazis have taken to the streets and beating people again in the last few days, and a nazi has been released from prison. i want to put it a little differently: is the far right a matter of aesthetics? if a man with nazi symbols on his body, with a shaved head and all the accessories that create the concept of a barbarian, where his narrative is the purity of race, hatred of other religions, of different, of what he judges should not exist, lives and breathes; and another, well-dressed, well-educated, accepts the substance, the core of these notions and places them at the centre of his political agenda; which of the two is more dangerous? which one of you is covering up the crime? which of the two poisoned the souls of men? both of you. because one is the narrative and the other is the weapon. i therefore call on you, especially the ppe, because there are parties which support these views, to wear this triangle on your lap, which i and my comrades have, which shows that we are against nazism and fascism.
mr president, the developments in the western balkans are dangerous. despite competition within the european union, penetration into the region for trade and energy corridors is increasing, american bases are being strengthened and competition is intensifying with russia, which is promoting the interests of its own monopolies and has a military presence, and with china, which is penetrating with powerful economic groups in the context of the integration of the balkans on the silk road. the greek bourgeoisie plays a central role in these plans. as part of its geostrategic upgrading, following the prespa agreement, it took over air surveillance in north macedonia, albania, montenegro. it provides infrastructure, like the port of alexandroupolis, for rehearsals of war with russia, targeting our people. it is involved in dangerous imperialist plans which promote border changes and may lead to a new outbreak of war. the sharpening of the confrontation between groups and imperialist centres in the western balkans portends further suffering for the peoples who now need to escalate their common struggle against imperialist plans to close foreign bases and to withdraw from nato and the european union.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the recent european union summit on the western balkans is a clear, strong political symbol and a commitment by the european union to their european perspective. the exchange of views at such a high level strengthens the eu's role in the region, which has always been characterised by instability and political upheaval. but now it seems that the conditions are ripe for making clear commitments on their accession path and it is now the eu's duty and duty to be in continuous, close cooperation with them and to move forward much faster. it is in the eu's interest to ensure that third countries such as china, russia and turkey do not bring this region into their sphere of influence, as they have been trying to do for so long, and unfortunately we are leaving a void which they often come to fill. at the same time, with the retreats we seem to be having, we are giving way to populist and extremist voices, which are gaining ground, are anti-european and can lead to unpleasant situations in the region. our aim is therefore to ensure that all the necessary structural changes are made and that all the appropriate conditions are met so that the western balkans can finally meet all the requirements that eu membership has and should have. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world that has the power to make decisions, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world that has the power to make decisions.
madam president, we have heard this too: 'they will not freeze, they will not die on our borders, but on the borders of others'. but that's the question, on whose borders and on whose soil will people die or will they die? the situation which has now developed on the border between poland and belarus is the result of the european union's political impasse on the refugee issue. the exploitation of refugees by the belarusian regime is fully identical to the deadlocked policy of brussels and the 'european union-fortress' narrative. we live in greece. as is the case with erdoğan's miserable policy. but here we have another bad factor, the polish government. both cases, as well as the crises that arise daily at the borders within the european union, slovenia-croatia, bulgaria, greece, justify our decision to stand against, to oppose this policy. and i heard this one too, "let's turn them back". but where are we going to turn them ? the afghans to the taliban and the kurds to erdoğan? we have to be careful not to let the european parliament get involved in the negotiations. is this the european union we want? well, our proposal is this: legal roads, safe corridors at the external borders, lawful asylum procedures and immediate assistance to the people. - what? i don't care what border they're on, if they're from here or there.
mr president, the priorities of the report are clear: an education-commodity to strengthen the groups against the competitors from the us and britain, a student-customer who buys as much as he can afford, a teacher under blackmail to implement the anti-educational design. school, university, all fields of business, selling short-term training and hunting for sponsorships and families paying out of their looted income to offset government underfunding. education that creates cheap, flexible workers without rights, adapted to the needs of corporate profitability, nurtured by the so-called "european values", by the unacceptable theory of the two extremes, i.e. anti-communism, things for which millions are spent, in an attempt to consolidate, in the century to come, capitalism and to hide, in vain, the prospect of organized struggle to overthrow capitalist exploitation. against the reactionary plans of the current and previous governments to cut the eu, with mergers into 27 departments in schools, without hiring teachers, in unsuitable classrooms, the fight for modern, exclusively public and free education for all must be intensified, we must teach young people how to interpret the world and fight to change it, putting their own modern needs at the centre.
mr president, commissioner gabriel, i am particularly pleased that this report focuses on the need for a european dimension in education - and we thank mrs šojdrová very much for this - but also on inclusive education, accessible to all, which promotes the acquisition of skills necessary for the requirements of the digital and green transition. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the participation of third countries in union programmes, in particular those referred to in article 4 of regulation (eu) no 514/2014, in the work programme of the european union. and i am confident that actions for the digital transformation of education, such as those included in the greek recovery plan, are making a decisive contribution towards this, towards an education that truly promotes sustainable economic growth and social progress for all.
mr president, it is the 10th of november and since the beginning of the month two workers have already lost their lives, one at the port of cosco in piraeus and the other, a distributor, in thessaloniki. every three days, a worker loses his life. these are not accidents, these are prescribed employer crimes, with the cover of the anti-working-class laws of the eu strategy, such as the hatzidakis extra-ordinary law of the new republic, or the ahcioglu law of syriza, which force workers to work, without protective measures, intensifying work that reaches up to 13 hours a day, without days off, until the deep old age, even abolishing the deforested bodies of labor inspectors. in this difficult situation, cosco workers, in a seven-day strike, united in their union, have broken labor laws and extracted from the employers additional safety measures. the e-food distributors' workers, with their collectively organized struggle against employer blackmail freelancer or dismissal, won an indefinite collective employment contract. these conquests are victories of all workers. they prove that monopolies and governments are powerless against the determined organized working class fighting for its modern needs.
mr president, as vice-chair of the committee on international trade (inta), i support the trade and technology council as a positive development in transatlantic relations, and pittsburgh was a good starting point. the question is now what can we expect from the ttc? we know it will deal with trade and technology, so that takes care of the two ts. but the essence of what we can expect can be described best by using words starting with the letter c, so we can expect that the ttc will be a forum where we can converse and collaborate, where we can minimise conflict, where we can compare and converge approaches, where we can reach compromises and aim for consensus – where we can find a way to deal with china, even though we avoid using the name. but if i were to choose one word starting with the letter c to describe what a successful overall outcome would be of the ttc for the transatlantic relationship, i would choose the word ‘compatibility’. after all, in trade and tech, as in life, compatibility is the essence of solid and long-lasting relationships.
in writing. – we have had plenty of opportunities in recent times to reconsider what is truly ‘critical’. it is ‘critical’ to have a ‘green deal’ to deal with the inevitable consequences of climate change and global warming. it is ‘critical’ to deal with the transition to the digital age, after the fourth industrial revolution. it is ‘critical’ to deal with the consequences of covid-19 and future pandemics. it is clear that we cannot deal with these ‘critical’ matters, without ‘critical raw materials.’ we need ‘critical raw materials’ like lithium for batteries, magnesium for light-weight vehicle concepts, permanent magnets for wind turbines, for electric vehicles, for communication devices. very few people realise how many critical raw materials are in their mobile phones! it is now ‘critical’ that we reduce our reliance on a handful of non-eu countries by supporting sustainable investments that involve european and global partners and smes as part of a long-term international sourcing strategy. we need to take back control of critical materials’ supply chains. we need to control waste streams and exports of waste products. in summary, we need to realise that ‘critical raw materials’ are today more ‘critical’ than ever and more importantly, we need to act accordingly.
the previous strategy on medicines and enterprises, madam president, commissioner, showed us the way to create a framework that would show a europe that is taking the lead. we must make the lessons of the past a guide, so that we can strengthen research, strengthen those scientists who want and can stay in europe, to produce raw material for the rest of the world. and not just that. the next stage has to go to the drugs themselves. we must lead the way so that we can create a common pricing framework, a common framework which will help all countries - the member states - to have a coherence so that they can serve and support european citizens in all countries.
(intervention principle off the microphone) ... worthy of the european green deal. but we are giving member states for the first time the opportunity to draw up their national strategic plans on the basis of their real needs and advantages. we therefore expect governments to go beyond the thresholds set by the new cap and to aim higher through transparency and broad consultation. to make use of this powerful and flexible tool and to secure the future of europe's agri-food sector. to contribute courageously and fairly to the objectives of the european green deal. we expect ambitious national plans that will provide opportunities for adaptation to climate change and halt the collapse of biodiversity. end longstanding inequalities in the distribution of direct payments to support active farmers, young farmers and small and medium-sized farms and encourage the adoption of new technologies in education and innovation. we also expect the commission, and above all the commission, to defend our common ambitions when adopting national plans.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for three years we have been discussing the future of the cap with farmers and citizens who are looking to us. for three years we have been insisting on the importance of the stability and predictability of support for farmers and the importance of meeting one of the main objectives of this policy: ensuring that there are fair and decent conditions for agricultural activity, a fundamental pillar of our rural world. three long years of debate, of difficult negotiations, culminating in the agreement reached under the portuguese presidency and ending today with the vote on this new cap. a cap that is not perfect, that does not meet all expectations, but which also brings achievements, thanks in large part to the action and negotiating determination of this parliament, and which should be valued, not belittled. the new cap incorporates, for the first time, the instrument of social conditionality, a decisive instrument in achieving greater social justice for all those working in the agricultural sector, and which expresses the commitment of our democratic societies to the dignity of work as an integral part of human dignity itself. the new cap also incorporates a new environmental ambition, reflected in new instruments such as eco-schemes, which, together with other measures, build the safety net needed to support farmers in the transition to production practices and techniques that allow for better preservation of natural resources, protection of biodiversity, and the fight against climate change. the new cap, i repeat, is not perfect, but it has my positive vote in respect of all these achievements, which have been achieved with effort in this house, and which it would be unwise and incomprehensible to postpone any longer. and my vote for it does not take away my legitimacy to criticize what she could have gone further on and did not. i shall exercise my right to criticise by following closely the steps that will be taken to achieve the objectives and ambitions on the ground where the cap is to be effectively implemented.
mr president, commissioner, i think that if we are thinking about the future of agriculture, we have to keep in mind three big objectives: how do we reduce emissions and pollution, how do we produce healthier food, how do we regenerate the rural environment. the agreement on the new common agricultural policy on the table is not perfect, but it is a satisfactory response to these challenges. firstly, we have the greenest common agricultural policy in history with a 25% allocation to eco-schemes and an improved system of environmental and social conditionalities. secondly, aligning with the farm to fork strategy ensures that we will produce healthier food by farming less intensively. and here i want to point out something important. the key to healthy food is the small farmers, who we have a duty to help the most. we need to value local products more and develop short supply chains around small farmers and the new cap offers these opportunities. thirdly, perhaps the biggest problem in the medium and long term is the ageing and depopulation of the villages, and here i am glad that we have a 3% increase in support for young farmers, which i think is useful but not enough. that's why we need to invest more in rural and agricultural infrastructure, in public services to make villages and agriculture ... (the president interrupts the speaker)... for young people.
mr president, speaking today about our primary sector, we should stop talking about what our farmers have to do to be supported by the commission and start talking about what the commission has to do to actually support our farmers. in recent years, a disastrous policy has been implemented which has imposed on our producers a series of absurd regulations which have raised production costs and, at the same time, dramatically increased imports of agricultural products from third countries. we want to eat olives from kalamata, not from south africa, and tomatoes from crete, not from turkey. to this end, we have three proposals which are perfectly workable. firstly, we call for increased aid to our producers and greater access to it; secondly, we call for increased checks on imported agricultural products for pesticide residues and other chemicals that poison european consumers; and thirdly, we call for increased duties on imported agricultural products to counter unfair competition with greek products.
mr president, politics is the art of the visible. it is still possible to arrest our race towards extinction. in glasgow, the paris agreement rulebook was finalised, and now the framework for international cooperation for climate action is finally operational. in glasgow, all nations finally submitted to the veracity and the ferocity of the ipcc science and committed to the 1.5-degree goal and not the inferno of well below two degrees. in glasgow, the ambition ratchet mechanism brought in is leading to 2.2 degrees, well down from the three parties’ 5-degree tragic trajectory, but not nearly good enough to ensure global public health and very catastrophic socio-economic impacts. in glasgow, the parties therefore committed to returning in 2022 with greater ambition and most importantly, credible policy pathways to 1.5 degrees. in this regard, the eu stood as a beacon. finally and fundamentally, developed nations recognise their liability for adaptation and for loss and damage in the global south. and this road to climate justice dictates that radical restructuring of the international financial is needed in order to unlock the trillions required and including the end of fossil fuel subsidies. optimism is the starting point of victory, but it can only be the result of unyielding struggle in every parliament, in every council, in every board, in every union, in every home, in the streets, every day.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr minister, this time you have not brought us a video. we saw you live. and we have all accepted here that the european union lives with its contradictions. but it also gives our union a special political interest. but mr janša's case is, i think, the transcendence of the super-extensive, because on the one hand he presides over an institution which he is also devaluing. what i mean. i would remind you that mr janša and the minister of justice exercised their right to disconnect in the wrong way and for the wrong reason when, when called upon by our committee to answer questions concerning our sitting today, they demanded that we play a video to the committee instead of answers and then, when we refused, they disconnected. i should like to say that i had a different impression of mrs kanko during our recent visit to slovenia, which i attended as a member of the committee responsible. i must tell you that the prime minister cancelled last-minute communication with our committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall not comment on the unprecedented and unacceptable attack by the prime minister of slovenia on my political group, to which president sassoli has responded adequately and firmly. in the three days we were in slovenia we found that there is a major problem with the justice system. i think slovenia will either comply or article 7 will have to come forward.
madam president, gender-based violence online is not a new form of violence, but a continuation of gender-based violence offline. a fact of the utmost importance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today, more and more forms of gender-based violence are being created online, which are spreading all the time due to the rapid development of the internet and social media. unfortunately, however, there is no common understanding in the european union of what constitutes online violence and there is no appropriate european legislation to address it. there are a number of legislative gaps and member states have different policies which do not cover all aspects of the problem. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to propose a holistic directive to combat all forms of gender-based violence. the report calls for a common definition of the crime of gender-based violence on the internet, for it to be criminalised in all member states and for corresponding sanctions to be introduced. we call for the creation of a permanent european mechanism for the collection and publication of regular and comparable data on domestic violence online. we call for mandatory training of all professionals to combat it and for measures to promote and support prevention, as well as measures to provide adequate protection and rehabilitation for victims.
mr president, today we are voting on the european youth year 2022. the aim is to empower all young people without discrimination and to improve their quality of life by ensuring equal access and equal opportunities in employment, education and social protection, based on the principles of the european pillar of social rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. but in order to achieve this, we must ensure that there is effective cooperation between all the member states of europe, since participation in the european year of youth is a matter for the member states. but above all, beyond the 2022 plans, europe should really commit itself to youth in the long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. well, that's a start.
madam president, i confess that when i was elected to the european parliament i was fighting to defend our common principles and values, but also the policies of equality and anti-discrimination here in the european parliament. i did not imagine that there would be a debate like the one we are having here today, let alone that i might have to defend my right to say 'merry christmas'. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat discrimination, including the creation of a european network of national networks of national networks. and unfortunately, the institutional and political incompetence of the commissioner responsible, mrs dalí, is dividing parliament and public opinion on an issue on which we should all be united. such failures, instead of helping us to take steps forward, instead of encouraging a truly progressive approach to equality and diversity issues, weaken our common struggle, lead to polarization and ultimately to a setback on our path towards the 'equality union'. ladies and gentlemen, a merry christmas!
on behalf of the left group. mr president, ambitious climate policies require equally ambitious policies to support the transport needs of citizens. fuel prices have skyrocketed in greece, with petrol reaching €1.74 per litre, among the highest in europe. in the wonderful greek islands where you are enjoying your holidays, fuel is even more expensive and, combined with the prohibitive cost of transport and the high cost of living, this creates conditions of demographic decline, greater isolation and exclusion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we claim: reliable and safe means of public transport, free or at least affordable for all in urban mobility, by exploiting new financial instruments. reduced cost of railway tickets. incentives to retire polluting cars and replace them with clean cars, especially for those who use them for livelihood reasons. and finally, brave support of the islanders, so that our islands do not decline under the weight of transport costs. happy birthday to you, happy holidays!
mr president, today parliament and the european commission are continuing the plan of imperialist intervention against cuba which was developed by the united states, the cuban mafia and a few forces inside. the eu, with the useful tool of alleged human rights violations, openly sponsors known operatives who spearheaded the destabilization operation and have connections to the well-paid propaganda mechanism and various agencies. it is a demand to be part of the imperialist intervention. the people's combative response, the mass demonstrations in support of the revolution, the internationalist popular solidarity throughout the world with the cuban people and the communist party government can thwart the anti-revolutionary plans of the united states, the eu and those who support them. the most vile crime against the rights of the cuban people is the blockade, which has been going on for almost 60 years, the 245 sanctions that the biden government maintains and reinforces, which deprive the people of essential means, goods and services. the criminal blockade is to be lifted immediately. solidarity with the struggle of cuba and its people to defend the gains of their revolution. cuba will win. the plans for the intervention will not pass.
