on behalf of the ppe club. madam vice-president, the freedom to provide services is of paramount importance to the european economy. indeed, services generate as much as 73% of european gdp and create as many as nine out of ten new jobs. on the other hand, only 6.5% of european gdp is generated by the cross-border provision of services. this means that the enormous economic potential lies precisely in the strengthening of cross-border service provision, which is the subject of this report. the internal market and its four freedoms are the basis for the functioning of the european union. unfortunately, the free movement of services is the least developed of the freedoms of movement in the internal market. the reason for this is not only the fact that the horizontal legislative framework for services was only created in 2006 with the adoption of the services directive, but also that the implementation of this directive was delayed in as many as 20 countries and we know what all the political debates were on that occasion both at local and national and at european level. scientific studies suggest that the hidden potential of the single market for services is as high as €297 billion. this is a huge amount of money that we can use to finance health, support small and medium-sized enterprises or invest in protecting the eu's external borders and boosting european competitiveness in times of crisis. we therefore want to send a clear message today that the timely and correct implementation of existing legislation is the key to completing the single market. in particular, we must work to remove unjustified national barriers that hamper business in the single market. and this report sends a clear message: protectionism has no place in the european union today. i would also like to stress, of course, that this report strikes a good balance between the freedom to provide services on the one hand and the protection of social rights on the other. i therefore call for sustained political engagement and comprehensive support at european, national and local level to enable the single market in services to reach its full potential.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. since the pandemic began, many people have asked, "how can i help?" and i thank all of you who are helping to fight the pandemic, who are also helping to vaccinate, and who are thinking about how we can get as much vaccine as quickly as possible that is safe. but there are others who ask themselves, above all, who can i blame for black peter? who is to blame? who can i blame? that's not gonna help us. the eu-bashing is really out of place here. but i also say to the two speakers before me that pharmaceutical bashing is also out of place. if the attitude that mr botenga has shown had been the attitude of the negotiators, we would not have had a vaccine at all today. we have to work together, and i think that's a little short-sighted in the debate sometimes. the second point that concerns me very much is this new mutation from britain. thank god the vaccine seems to be working, but right now we just have to follow the rules even more strictly. that's why i'm wearing an ffp2 mask in my speech, which is not pretty, but it's better for all of us, and we need to do that now. and we need to have better, more effective controls at the border. there is a serious debate, ladies and gentlemen, about whether lorry drivers coming from the uk should be allowed to bring their sandwich, but there are no systematic pcr tests when entering the european union. we must protect our citizens better!
madam president, commissioner, i welcome this opportunity to discuss the eu vaccine strategy here today. this is a pressing and urgent matter for all our citizens and europe is once more at the epicentre of this pandemic. the steady and stable delivery of the vaccine will be of key importance in order to secure that europe has a sufficient amount of doses for distribution to citizens. in this light, i especially welcome the commission’s recent decision to enter into an agreement to buy 300 million additional doses of the vaccine. the rollout of the vaccine has now begun in all our member states. however, we see a rather big difference in the efficiency in how they do it and it’s really important to remember we are all in this together. the virus has clearly showed us that all will not be safe until everyone is safe. this is a very regrettable decision from one of the member states to follow their own self-centred action in this situation. the eu joint procurement and advance purchase agreement for the covid-19 vaccine is a very powerful and useful instrument for the eu as a whole. this accord benefits all countries as they can guarantee access to the vaccine in solidarity and in a fair manner. we need to keep to our unity and avoid self-centred national positions that could undermine collective leverage and cooperation. we have already experienced member states doing that at the beginning of this pandemic. i also want to conclude by saying that we also want to see significant improvement when it comes to the transparency and sharing of the information contained in the contracts, but you mentioned that commissioner.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the message of the european parliament has two key elements. the first is support for the european process. i say to the german left, to the french right, to the far right who are speaking here: imagine the chaos that would be if we had 27 different contracts, 27 different prices, 27 different access conditions, 27 different timetables for the start of vaccination. it would be complete chaos, is that really the europe you want? if so, accept it, but we are proud of this single, shared and solidary european process. but the second message i would like to convey to you, madam commissioner, is the need for transparency. you thought you could respond to the european parliament's request, which has been in place since last september, and you thought you could respond by giving access to a contract, because only one laboratory has accepted it so far, to a partial contract in which key information is not present. i saw that contract, i was even the first mep to see the curevac contract. as for legal liability - who would be responsible if something went wrong? - out of six paragraphs, two are illegible, they are crossed out. how can we as representatives of the european people be satisfied with this partial transparency? we want full transparency on a few key elements, not on the clauses that would be protected by trade secrecy, but on the key elements that deserve to be in the public debate. but there are other elements of transparency too, and i believe that was mentioned by the portuguese minister, the president-in-office of the council, and i would like to welcome this request. the request to the member states to publish the number of doses to which they are contractually entitled, country by country, month by month, so that we can know exactly, that we can have an informed public debate about what the pace of vaccination will be. of course, whether these vaccines still need to be produced is another matter, but at least, contractually, we would know what the commitments are, month after month, country after country, to avoid rumors, false polemics and false information.
madam president, commissioner, during our last exchange in november you promised to allow us to consult contracts with industry. only one company has agreed to this so far, but vital information was blacked out. can we really speak of the european parliament's right to information? moreover, what about transparency if, as a representative of the citizens, i am forbidden to tell them what i have read in the contracts? i would rather speak of the illusion of democracy when a key partner, the elected representatives, is left out and this undermines the success of the signing of these contracts. in a context of mistrust of politics, it is dangerous to play the game of the industrialists and to conceal certain essential elements. transparency is an essential prerequisite for the control of public action and therefore for the establishment of the confidence of the citizens and we owe them accountability especially when so much public money has been invested. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to commit yourself to making these contracts public by the end of january.
madam chair, madam colleague, colleagues, madam commissioner, in the early months of this pandemic, world leaders, business people, activists called on wto members to make the most of the flexibility in the trips agreement to allow all states to access vaccines and medicines against covid-19. let's face it, it was all words. the title of today's debate is: the eu's global strategy for vaccination against covid-19. the commissioner said here that the european union wants to play a global role. but where is the global strategy? we are talking about the covax system. how many vaccines have we given out through covax? the system just doesn't work. we have to admit that it doesn't work, because the only possible solution to heal the world is to abolish patent protection. it's not a big deal, because companies like pfizer and others have been making money off of vaccines for a long time. that means that all we have to do as the european parliament is to call for the abolition of patent protection. without it, we cannot protect the world, the european union and, above all, our citizens.
the commission has therefore decided to initiate the formal investigation procedure provided for in article 108 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1306/2013. it's a way of making any death from any cause without a medical cause of death being established a death from covid-19 within 28 days of a positive pcr test. so it's not being determined whether the person had covid-19 in the first place or whether their death had anything to do with covid-19. in order to facilitate the determination of damages to the individuals or families of the deceased, we must now apply the same standard. any death within 28 days of vaccination must be considered as a death by vaccination.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe is doing quite well, the eu is doing quite well, but we are discussing the subject of 'global strategy' today, and i have heard relatively little from you, ladies and gentlemen, about global strategy. the focus was on eu-bashing, pharma-bashing and access to information - all important. but i think we also need to know that people in nine out of 10 countries will not have a chance to get a covid-19 vaccine this year. the rich countries -- we're one of them -- they've taken the covid-19 vaccine. 14% of the world's population has organized 53% of the vaccine developed so far. we have many challenges in the developing world. now, part of the problem with the distribution of the vaccine is that these countries don't have enough electricity, they don't have enough storage for the vaccine, and that's why the global covax joint initiative is important. the good news is that the eu is ready to contribute eur 500 million. that is commendable. we'll see if it's enough. but at least the solidarity is there. we have 167 countries that are willing to participate in covax. however, the need will remain, as these doses will only be enough to vaccinate about 20% of the population this year. so we need global solidarity. this is precisely what we as the eu must bear in mind.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it's not easy to take a casual tone when talking about covid-19. i'm going to take a little risk, though. when we look at the finnish figures, we see that they differ quite strongly from the figures in the other european countries. there are reasons for that. the first, easy comment, is that we are led by a government with five women in charge. it's a good model for other countries as well. the second reason is that we trust our institutions, that is, when the institutions tell us to follow the rules, we do so without much trouble. the third reason is social distancing. the common joke in finland is: when will we get back to the normal three meters, instead of the current enforced one and a half meters? but there is a lesson in this context that is important, and that has actually come out in today's discussion: trust in institutions is extremely important, and as soon as that trust breaks down, we have a lot of problems. some of the discussions we have had in this house today are not constructive, but contribute to a reduction in support for the institutions, including the european ones.
madam president, commissioner, minister, it is true that this is a highly sensitive subject and i believe that we have never known a pandemic of this global scale. the first positive point is the group purchase negotiated at european level. i think that is a very important point because, for the h1n1 flu, we really had a strategy per member state. but i must admit i am very disappointed in the transparency. we've been asking for access to the contracts for months. i went there last week. i have to be honest, i took a six-hour train ride to get to this reading room and i wanted to see the figures, because it is legitimate, and you have pointed this out, madam minister. i wanted to know how much money was given to each lab. we voted for more than two billion euros for the laboratories, but nothing was said. the price of vaccines is not mentioned. the place of production and we see the problem at the level of pfizer in belgium on the whole nothing is said. then that's not possible. you cannot give so much public money without a return, and it seems that you are taking refuge behind business secrecy, when it is legitimate for all european citizens to be held to account. and i came here on purpose to answer this question: who is responsible for the side effects? if i get vaccinated tomorrow and i have facial paralysis, who do i talk to? in the states? the labs? who's responsible? you have to answer that question because there's nothing in the contracts about that.
madam president! the pandemic is a unique time not only for the european union, but for the world. there are also times when we must meet that challenge by following the rules. we talk so much and so often in the european parliament about european solidarity, so let's look at what european solidarity looks like in this difficult time of the pandemic. there was to be a joint procurement of vaccines for the member states. commissioner, is it true that some member states media reports that germany has broken off this agreement and is concluding bilateral agreements? is this vaccine solidarity to be seen as the energy, climate solidarity that is being broken by germany in front of the eyes of the entire european union? is it true that the commission received an offer to buy an additional 500 million doses of the pfizer/biontech vaccine, but rejected it after objections as reported by the media in paris? so what is european solidarity? that the stronger ones make the decisions and break all the rules.
madam president, the protection of human life and the shielding of society are far more important than the profits and interests of certain pharmaceutical multinationals. vaccine production must be dramatically accelerated, as must the pace of safe vaccination, so that the majority of the population is vaccinated by the summer. vaccines have been generously funded by the european union, and so they should be treated as a public good and not just a commodity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of health inspections. the commission and the council, ladies and gentlemen, must stop pretending and self-proclaiming and take additional measures: more vaccines, faster vaccination and transparency. because if we don't contain this pandemic quickly, we're not going to shield society and we're not going to rebuild the economy.
madam vice president, what we can't measure we can't control, and i'm personally interested in numbers, and i'm interested in exact numbers. the commission here is saying how many billions the first pharmaceutical company, the second pharmaceutical company, the third pharmaceutical company will get for their vaccine production. what i'm wondering is why don't you invest those billions in diagnostics? therefore, according to scientific research, the reliability of the pcr test depends on the number of booster cycles. after 35 cycles, we have a false positive rate of 97 percent. many laboratories in europe use 40 cycles or more. because of a bad diagnosis, because of a bad diagnosis, colleague and colleague, you have ruined many lives. many couldn't work, many couldn't travel, had to self-isolate, automatically, as soon as you're positive, you're infected. what is the logic of that with 97 percent or more false positives? they couldn't get treatment, they couldn't get to hospitals and everything. so why don't you make sure the commission adjusts the cycle count to 25, which is kind of the upper limit according to the scientists for reliability. so i'm interested in numbers, and without knowing the exact numbers, this crisis cannot be managed.
dear vice-president, even in these cold and snowy winters, we are witnessing the unacceptable living conditions of migrants at the external borders of the european union. another humanitarian crisis, this time in bosnia and herzegovina. and yet another humanitarian crisis has been chosen by some in today's debate to be exploited for completely unrelated, unfounded, cheap and politically motivated attacks on croatia, greece, frontex, but essentially on the european policy of protecting the external borders. the real causes of this crisis, however, are the exact opposite. they lie in the permeable borders, in the insufficient border and institutional capacity of bosnia and herzegovina, but also in the not always sufficiently successful european engagement in our immediate neighbourhood. the bihac region must not become a new symbol of the failure of migration and asylum policies. bosnia and herzegovina needs to manage its borders and migration more effectively, and the european union needs to do more to help, and to insist on political will and strong investment in bosnia and herzegovina in strengthening the capacity of the state to control its borders. only in this way can the incessant recurrence of humanitarian crises like these, which profoundly trample on human dignity, be avoided. but no less important, it is also crucial for the stability of the whole of south-east europe, a region of strategic importance for the whole of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law will be strong as long as human rights maintain their connection with natural law, which is immutable and inherent in the human condition. it is therefore essential to recognise that the cornerstone of human rights is the protection of life itself, from conception to natural death. we therefore condemn practices which destroy the confidence that should exist in the defence of life, such as euthanasia or abortion. legislation based on the whim of one's own desire or appetite gives rise to new forms of slavery, such as surrogacy. when legislation is based on any ideology, the objectivity and universality of human rights are perverted. these lose their status as a fundamental pillar. this is happening with gender ideology, an unnatural view that is dissolving the objectivity of norms, undermining fundamental rights. have you thought about the consequences of this? legislation from the empire of desire to the dawn of fashionable opinion means the extinction of the rule of law and the emergence of a new state: the "state of desire", the desire of the strongest, that is, the state of the strongest. have you considered where the protection of the most vulnerable is?
madam president, we cannot forget how, in 2019, the mobilizations that in latin america rose up against decades of neoliberal plunder were repressed amidst international silence. it was the year when the european union again put commercial interests first, endorsing illegitimate agreements such as the one with morocco, which included the illegally occupied territories of the sahara. despite the systematic human rights violations in libyan detention centers in 2019, european union countries continued to cooperate with this country to continue to externalize our borders at the cost of thousands of dead. in europe we call ourselves human rights defenders, but our policies say the opposite: they create poverty and inequality, they plunder resources and allow human beings to drown at our borders. judge for yourselves, ladies and gentlemen. i'm clear on that. let's stop lecturing and start setting an example.
dear vice president, today we are talking about human rights. you don't have to go to nicaragua or even belarus to talk about gross human rights violations. it is enough to go only a few hundred metres from the european parliament building in strasbourg. the strasbourg court, the court of human rights, was the last hope of many croats who had exhausted all the possibilities of the croatian judiciary. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the court of justice has consistently held that the principle of proportionality is not applicable to the interpretation of the treaty. the principle of equal access to justice is violated in this court by declaring 97 percent of all cases from croatia inadmissible. the croatian judicial staff working there in the croatian department carefully filters those items that could threaten the croatian power brokers and the regime. unjustified court decisions are made, even though article 45 of the convention clearly states that they must be justified, which again violates human rights and denies the very meaning and existence of the court. people are prevented or made difficult to access the file, and when they do get access to the file, it simply has no court order, or it is classified. so what kind of human rights are we talking about when croats who are seeking their human rights in strasbourg at the court find the same frame they fled from croatia.
madam president, the european union still has some way to go in order to realise its full potential in world politics. all eu foreign policy instruments must work together: that is diplomacy, foreign trade policy, development cooperation, security and defence policy. the weakest link here is the eu defence policy, since it is only just developing. but without it, the whole picture is incomplete. another important element is the willingness of the eu member states to actually have a truly common eu foreign policy. this is not always the case. to speak of the latest examples, finding common ground in sanctioning the lukashenko regime took too long. disagreements in matters like nord stream 2 weaken the image. we are also still lacking a clear common approach as regards china, for example the continuation of the weird format of 17+1. so much needs to be done for eu to become a serious global player, but the ball is in our own hands.
madam president, the eu has all the possibilities to build peace and human rights and, if the eu does it well, we can prevent conflicts that force people to leave their homes as refugees. building global stability should be the goal of every political group. how do we do this? one solution is including young people, who form the majority of the population in many countries, in all decision-making and in building societies peacefully. and now, for the very first time, this annual report on the common security and defence policy acknowledges the role of youth in maintaining and promoting peace and security and implementation of related un resolution 2250. i hope that, in the next annual report, the parliament is able to record progress in this. our green group also calls on the member states to protect our societies by signing the new historic un treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the fundamental rights to work, to freedom of movement, to ideal and quality health care, to freedom of speech are being violated. there are para-state bodies, para-political bodies, various national headquarters that are, among other things, unconstitutional and they make decisions that abolish fundamental human rights. that's not acceptable. it's a violation of free speech. we have private companies that are introducing censorship. the silent majority simply has no access to the mainstream media. truth becomes a lie, and a lie becomes truth. the silent majority can tolerate it for a while, but not all the time.
madam president, isn’t it ironic that, for four years, we listened to the democrats claim that walls are immoral, unnecessary and ineffective, yet today in washington dc, an eight—foot wall circumvents the biden inauguration ceremony. for four years, the democrats and the far left used every single opportunity to attack the second amendment of the american constitution, allowing citizens to bear arms. yet today they have organised 30 000 very well—armed federal troops, flown in from all over the country. this sort of hypocrisy is of course nothing new for the democrats and the far left. last summer, we witnessed the eruption of violence in many american cities with zones being occupied by the antifa and blm mob of marxist extremists. the far left media and the democrats call them peaceful protesters. however, when the protesters are not extreme marxist terrorists, but patriots, suddenly they are called terrorists. one thing is sure: in history you either go down as a patriot or as a coward. the democrats, dear friends on the left, are the cowards today because (inaudible)
dear chairwoman, colleagues, i have warned before of the billionaire dictatorship that threatens us. the removal of the president of the united states from social media is an outrage, it's a blow to democracy and freedom of speech. this decision was not made by some institution based on the law, but by the owners of the company, the managers. these are people who have more wealth than entire nations. while here the corona crisis is cutting the budget of europe, while 10% or 15% of croatia's gdp has disappeared, they are getting richer and accumulating more and more money in their accounts. states are getting weaker, corporations and their owners are getting stronger. that's not all. also, according to research by the swiss federal institute of technology, 147 companies hold 40% of the world's wealth and 737 hold 80% of the world's wealth, otherwise intertwined with each other. it's time to make it impossible for corporations to eat democracy. we need to put a limit on these people's wealth and therefore their power and use the funds as one of the sources of revenue for the universal unconditional basic income program.
madam president, the portuguese presidency starts in a crisis and pandemic without precedent and, although everyone is affected, some feel the negative impact more than others. older generations are under higher health risk, but younger generations face tremendous challenges in education, finding a proper job and starting their own family. the joint european vaccination efforts offer an opportunity to normalise our lives and our economy, but it is also crucial to defend the free movement of persons in europe, both through maintaining schengen as an area without internal border controls, and through further schengen enlargement after fulfilment of all the criteria. i also welcome your commitment in the area of the future of work, and in reconciling work and family life. the imperative of fair recovery has been recognised by the portuguese presidency. it’s time that innovative and digital recovery comes to all: to all generations, to all economic sectors and to all the regions. i wish you success.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate the presidency of the council and all the other members. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide the necessary information to the competent national authorities in order to carry out its tasks. and if the situation demanded, they might even be allowed to investigate their own governments. but that means that the casting and the nomination must be independent as well. we have a european selection board which has done an excellent job and has put forward good candidates. it is incredible that the portuguese government has also provided false information to give priority to another candidate of their choice, and that the other two have no transparent justification for the nominations - i think it is wrong. i urge you, dear council presidency, to change that. the european public prosecutor's office must be credible from the outset and must be able to act independently from the outset.
acting president of the council. mr president, i would first like to remind you that i am speaking here on behalf of the council and not as the representative of the portuguese state. i will say this, however: allegations of political interference in the appointment of the portuguese prosecutor have been heard in this house. i would like to emphasize that the decision to appoint him was based on the opinion of the superior council of the public prosecutor's office, a judicial body, independent of the executive, provided for in the portuguese constitution, composed of nineteen members, most of whom are prosecutors, but also including members appointed by the assembly of the republic. this council gave prosecutor josé guerra the highest ranking. i would stress that the candidates were also heard in the portuguese parliament in full transparency. this appointment was independent. furthermore, it is important to remember what i said at the outset. in accordance with the applicable rules, the ranking indicating the order of preference of the selection committee does not bind the council, which has full discretion in this matter. in the portuguese case, the order established by the superior council of the public prosecutor's office was maintained, in which there was no political interference. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the period from 1 january 2017 to 31 december 2018. this letter was examined by the council together with the reasoned opinion of the selection committee on the portuguese nominees. unfortunately, it contains two lapses and let me clarify what those two lapses were. the letter refers to prosecutor josé guerra, using the courtesy title of deputy attorney general, although he is, in fact, the attorney general of the republic. this reference is merely an identification element and was in no way intended to enhance their qualifications or to serve as a criterion of preference. the council assessed the experience of mr josé guerra not on the basis of his professional category but on the basis of his experience of more than three decades in the public prosecutor's office, including twelve years in eurojust in various capacities. the letter also states that the public prosecutor was involved in the investigation and trial stages of the ugt case, although in fact he only participated in the trial stage. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases pending before the court of justice in the member states. these lapses, although regrettable, did not influence the council's assessment of the merits and professional qualifications of the portuguese candidates, as is evident from the letters sent to the unsuccessful candidates. moreover, the curriculum vitae of mr josé guerra was sent to the council at the beginning of this procedure and is completely correct, not containing any of the inaccuracies mentioned. i hope that these clarifications have dispelled any doubts about portugal's commitment to the european public prosecutor's office in a spirit of full transparency, but also about the commitment of the presidency of the council and the council to this enhanced cooperation project, which is as important as this one in protecting the financial interests of the union. this is a matter of the utmost importance for portugal, for the presidency and for the council of the european union.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. in order to be selected and appointed, european prosecutors must satisfy the conditions of independence and meritocracy, which are the main guarantee for the proper performance of their duties. the proceedings should have been held beyond any doubt or suspicion, but they were not. for some appointments the council decided without following the recommendations and rankings of the european selection committee. this, while permissible, has raised questions which call for clarity and maximum transparency in the decisions taken. the field must be cleared of any shadow of improper political interference. we cannot allow the european public prosecutor's office to be the subject of controversy, as was the case with the appointment of the european prosecutor in portugal. the european parliament, the council and the commission must protect its crucial role from any undue influence. it was set up to fight fraud, corruption and crimes against the eu's financial interests, a mission which is fundamental to the credibility of the european project itself.
in writing. the portuguese government's action to discredit the european public prosecutor's office cannot go unchallenged. we are dealing with an attempt by a member state, even when it holds the presidency of the council of the european union, to seriously undermine the rules and values of the rule of law. we must not shy away from words. the portuguese government lied to the european council when it presented the professional file of the prosecutor to be appointed to the eppo. lying and lack of accountability are not acceptable behaviour in the functioning of the european institutions. i am asking, together with my colleagues from the epp, the european commission to investigate how the portuguese government followed the procedure for appointing the prosecutor to be part of the eppo. this government's attempt to promote its favourite prosecutor calls into question the credibility of the eppo, the institution that is supposed to protect the eu budget, that is, the money of every european citizen, from acts of corruption. the facts are simple and clear: when a member state officially presents false information on which the european council bases its decisions, there is a breach of the treaty on the functioning of the eu on the obligation to cooperate in good faith. the epp does not accept such abuse and we demand the withdrawal of the prosecutor in question and the opening of an investigation by the european commission.
the next item is the commission statement on earthquake mitigation in croatia (2021/2504 ((rsp)). members are informed that, again, no requested speeches or blue card questions will be allowed in the debate during this part-session. i would also point out that the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i’m taking this point on behalf of my colleague, elisa ferreira, the commissioner responsible for cohesion and reforms. few events have the capacity to shake us to our very core like an earthquake, and for anyone who has experienced it, you know how it feels when your whole world literally starts to crumble around you. your thoughts go instantly to your loved ones, especially the most vulnerable, who need your help to get safely out of the very building that, up to just a few short seconds ago, provided their sense of security. after the main shock come the aftershocks, which can be equally fatal as the remaining fragments fall. when these terrible moments have passed, attention must turn to rebuilding, because rebuild we must. i’m proud to say that croatia does not rebuild alone. i was in croatia when the earthquake hit. in the immediate aftermath, along with my fellow compatriots, i realised that croatia was not alone. the solidarity shown in response to croatia’s time of need was again outstanding. i take this opportunity to thank this house for its support and each and every member state that offered immediate assistance in the form of much-needed housing containers, winterised tents, sleeping bags, beds and electrical heaters. with my colleague commissioner janez lenarčič, i visited petrinja and glina with the croatian deputy prime minister to assess first-hand the most immediate assistance needed by the people and local authorities. of course, lives are the most precious of all, and it saddens me to report that eight people lost their lives and many were injured. on behalf of the european commission and of our european union, i take this opportunity to send their families and loved ones our deepest condolences. to those injured and recovering from the effects of the earthquake, we stand beside you. poštovana predsjedavajuća, u rezoluciji ovog parlamenta evidentna je zabrinutost oko moguće daljnje depopulacije pogođenih područja a sve kao rezultat ekonomskih i socijalnih posljedica potresa. kao potpredsjednica za demokraciju i demografiju, dijelim vašu zabrinutost. rezolucija s pravom skreće pozornost ne samo na ekonomsku i strukturnu stranu oporavka nego i na psihološke učinke koje ovakav događaj može imati. nacionalne, regionalne i lokalne vlasti u tome trebaju našu pomoć i podršku. i ovo je prilika za podsjetiti na članak 174. ugovora o funkcioniranju europske unije koji govori da će unija uvijek raditi na jačanju ekonomske, socijalne i teritorijalne kohezije a kako bi promovirala harmoničan razvoj te uvijek težila smanjenju razlika u razvoju pojedinih regija. taj članak podsjeća da posebnu pažnju treba posvetiti ruralnim područjima koja su izložena negativnim demografskim trendovima. potrebno je ovim se rukovoditi kada se pristupa obnovi ove regije, što znači da treba paralelno s obnovom stvarati uvjete za ostanak stanovništva, što je i glavna tema dugoročne vizije za ruralna područja koju će komisija uskoro usvojiti. nakon ove serije potresa dopustite mi da u tri točke izložim naš odgovor i podršku. prvo, europska podrška u neposrednoj opasnosti. drugo, europska podrška u naporima za oporavak a treće su sljedeći koraci u partnerstvu s hrvatskim vlastima. neposredno nakon potresa u zagrebu 22. ožujka aktiviran je mehanizam europske unije za civilnu zaštitu. komisije je također aktivirala službe za upravljanje izvanrednim situacijama copernicus kako bi pružile vitalne informacije i logističku potporu spašavanju i operacijama procjene šteta na terenu. podrška u okviru mehanizma europske unije za civilnu zaštitu i satelitskog sustava copernicus emergency mapping ponovno su aktivirane kada je 29. i 30. prosinca 2020. i 6. siječnja 2021. nekoliko potresa pogodilo područje središnje hrvatske. solidarnost europske unije odmah se pokazala te je većina zahtjeva ostvarena u roku od 24 sata od aktiviranja mehanizma. međutim, krizna podrška nije dovoljna pa me to dovodi do moje druge točke a to su europske potpore naporima za oporavak i obnovu. fond solidarnosti europske unije mobiliziran je prošle godine nakon potresa u zagrebu u ožujku. upravo je ovaj parlament odobrio 683 milijuna eur potpore. ovo je drugi najveći apsolutni iznos ikada uplaćen iz fonda solidarnosti. također je daleko najveći ikad u relativnom smislu, što predstavlja 1,26 % hrvatskog bruto društvenog proizvoda. to još jednom dokazuje važnost fonda solidarnosti europske unije kao jedinstvenog instrumenta unije, posebno dizajniranog za prirodne katastrofe. pružio je bitnu i pravodobnu pomoć hrvatskoj. fond solidarnosti podržava hrvatske vlasti i lokalno stanovništvo u oporavku osnovne infrastrukture, u operacijama čišćenja, u pružanju privremenog smještaja te u zaštiti kulturne baštine, ali još uvijek možemo učiniti više. i ovo me dovodi do treće točke a to su sljedeći koraci u partnerstvu s hrvatskim vlastima. nakon izvanrednih situacija uzrokovanih prirodnim nepogodama, neposredni prioritet je procjena štete koju je prouzročio potres a komisija je spremna u tome pomoći hrvatskim vlastima. na temelju procjene štete, fond solidarnosti europske unije može se ponovno pokrenuti kako bi odgovorio na zahtjev hrvatske za daljnju potporu naporima za oporavak i obnovu. šire gledano, moramo usvojiti sveobuhvatan pristup obnovi i oporavku od potresa, uključujući sve aktivnosti i imovinu na koju je potres utjecao. prirodne katastrofe nasm uvijek podsjete da se moramo usredotočiti na prevenciju, prilagodbu klimatskim promjenama i upravljanje rizicima. službe komisije već razgovaraju s nacionalnim vlastima. dostupni resursi u okviru kohezijske politike, instrumenta za oporavak i otpornost, europskog poljoprivrednog fonda za ruralni razvoj tu su kako bi pomogli građanima hrvatske. to uključuje ulaganje u mjere ublažavanja rizika od katastofa i mjere prilagodbe klimatskim promjenama, primjerice kao dio nacionalnog plana oporavka i otpornosti razvijana je flagship inicijativa za obnovu zgradu nakon potresa u zagrebu 22. ožujka prošle godine. komisija podržava one koji su najviše pogođeni kako bi se oporavili od ove štete, kako bi bili otporniji u budućnosti i kako bismo vratili hrvatsku na put održivog rasta i bolje budućnosti. hrvatska nije sama jer europa je svaki put bila tu u trenutku krize.
on behalf of the ppe club. dear chairwoman, colleagues, a cold sunday morning at the very beginning of the first lockdown in march will remain deeply engraved in the memory of all zagrebers. we were awakened by one of the strongest earthquakes in the entire history of croatia, which in ten seconds completely powerless against nature, destroyed the homes of thousands of families and severely damaged the socio-cultural core of the croatian capital. the harrowing images of nurses and doctors evacuating pregnant women, mothers and newborn babies from hospitals, including my wife and newborn daughter, will remain deeply etched in our collective memory. just as the subsequent smaller quakes began to subside and the fear slowly receded, croatia was unfortunately hit by new quakes, this time another more devastating one in the sisačko-moslavska county, claiming new human victims and leaving thousands of families without their homes and security. despite the pandemic and the shock, croatian authorities, volunteers, health workers, the croatian army and thousands and thousands of citizens showed the true face of croatia - unity in the most difficult situations and solidarity towards the most affected. by providing much-needed equipment through the civil protection mechanism, other european countries have shown that croatia is not alone. we're grateful to everyone who's helped us. we have a huge amount of work to do, and the rebuilding will take time. but only together can we help those who have suffered, rebuild our homes and restore life to the affected areas.
on behalf of the s&d club. madam president, i thank you both for this debate and for the agreed text of the resolution. it is a clear support of the european parliament to the citizens of croatia. i express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of this catastrophic earthquake as well as support for the homeless citizens. fans of rival teams have come together to help the victims, top chefs who are not working for them because of the pandemic have been cooking for them since day one, donations from citizens of member countries are coming in, help is on the ground, thank you all. it's hard to find anything positive in a disaster, but this wave of solidarity, of humanity, is an extraordinary dimension of this tragedy. we owe it to the suffering to provide urgently adequate housing, transparent spending on aid, to build a better system because this has unfortunately proven in practice that it needs to be reformed. it is of the utmost importance that the destroyed and damaged facilities are rebuilt in accordance with all safety standards, that they are seismically resistant and not as in some cases during post-war reconstruction, which must be investigated. it is important that we build the basic infrastructure that did not exist before the earthquake and that with good development policy, stopping the emigration, we can develop this area that has been neglected for too long.
on behalf of the renew club. dear chair, dear colleagues, 2020 was a very difficult year for all of europe, for the whole world, of course, because of the fight against covid-19. but for croatia, it was terrible, it was terrible because in addition to fighting covid, croatia was hit by two terrible earthquakes. the first 22.3 magnitude 5.5 on the richter scale hit our capital zagreb and the second at the very end of the year, 29.12. the area of central croatia or the sisacko-moslavska county with a magnitude of 6.4 degrees. unfortunately, the first quake killed one person, the second seven. i express my deepest condolences. that's why this resolution is important. that's why it's important to have a strong resolution that asks for all possible long-term assistance, yes, long-term, because the reconstruction will take some time, from the european union and the commission should find ways from the solidarity fund, from the civil protection mechanism but also from the 2021-2027 budget to maximally help croatia. croatia needs help now and immediately and that's why it needs to reduce bureaucracy and administration and maximize solidarity. dear colleagues, the earthquake in croatia is an earthquake in europe and your help and solidarity, the help and solidarity of every volunteer, every firefighter, every citizen is a light in this disaster, in this tragedy and we will never, never forget it. and believe me, it's much, much easier when you know you're not in trouble alone. and that's why i'm calling on you to support this resolution and to make a new, big step to help the affected areas and to bring life, economy back to this area.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the inclusion of the earthquake in croatia on the agenda of this debate by our parliament is a reminder of what the european union is all about: a space of solidarity and the expression of brotherhood that animates us all when one of the peoples of the european union is facing a trial. and i want to once again this morning extend my condolences to the families and express my deep solidarity with croatia, which has had to deal with these earthquakes in an already terribly difficult year 2020, affected by the covid-19 pandemic and the crisis it has generated. as you said, madam commissioner, the european union solidarity fund has been mobilised, but the effort to rebuild infrastructure, economic recovery and social reparation is extremely important and i call on the commission to deploy the necessary funds and aid as quickly as possible. all european instruments must be combined to support reconstruction. of course, those of cohesion policy, but also those of recovery. in conclusion, i would like to say that the earthquakes in croatia also remind us that europe is in many places threatened by earthquakes. this was the case in italy not so long ago and we know that tomorrow, here or there, a major earthquake could occur. and that is why we will have to put in place real regional adaptation strategies to volcanic and seismic risks.
dear chairwoman, colleagues, 2020 was not an easy year for croatia. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the people of europe and the organizations for the help they provided in the earthquake. the earthquake showed the best, but unfortunately also the worst of croatia. looking at all those volunteers in the first hours of the earthquake, you could easily get the impression that all of croatia went down there to banovina or banija to help, but also much more than croatia. unfortunately, bureaucracy and corruption remain our enemies, and even today many still do not have a campsite or a container to house them. in the short term, people must be provided with everything to have as many normal conditions, but in the long term, these areas of banya, but not only banya, but from srijem to banya to dalmatia, which are devastated and desolate, should not only be rebuilt but also inhabited. all these spaces represent ideal conditions for the development of renewable energy sources, they represent ideal conditions for the development of organic agriculture. why not make these premises the european core for the development of organic farming? let there be a number of research institutes to develop these activities. let it be a beautiful green croatian ecological belt and let it be rich as it is beautiful.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, on december 29 last year, croatia was struck by an earthquake of magnitude 6.2 on the richter scale, which was felt throughout the country as well as in neighboring countries. the cities of petrinja, sisak, and glina were all but destroyed, as were the surrounding villages, and thousands of people were left homeless. unfortunately, seven lives were lost in the earthquake and i would like to express my condolences to the families of those unfortunate people. the situation is further aggravated by the fact that the earthquake hit precisely those parts of croatia that were heavily damaged in the homeland war and that therefore belong to the least developed parts of the country. however, it is important to note that the government of the republic of croatia, in this difficult time of the pandemic, reacted quickly and appropriately after the earthquake itself by offering alternative accommodation to all people who were left homeless. i want to thank today the croatian army, police, mountain rescue service, firefighters, all medical workers and volunteers for the selflessness they showed in the most difficult moments for croatia since the homeland war. ladies and gentlemen, in the crucial moments, croatia has remained united in solidarity. i also thank you, our european friends for the support you have shown us and all the countries that have sent aid to the earthquake-stricken areas. i consider it essential that the european institutions continue to provide further assistance to croatia, primarily through the solidarity fund for earthquake-affected areas as has already been done for zagreb and through the cohesion policy. it will help rebuild the infrastructure in the devastated area but also develop the economy to bring life back to the area, which we all want.
mr president, the european union brings together member states committed to the european idea and the european way of life, including democracy and the rule of law. however, political circumstances are such that in our immediate neighborhood we have a country that is not committed to the values described. while the fact that turkey has enjoyed candidate status for membership of the union since 1999 should mean that it shares our vision of fundamental values, especially the rule of law, this is unfortunately not the case. on the basis of the information provided by the turkish authorities, the detention of the opposition leader selahattin demirtaş in 2016 was considered a travesty of justice. the european court of human rights, in its december decision, unequivocally confirmed that demirtaşa's detention was not based on law and ordered his immediate release. ladies and gentlemen, i hereby express my regret that turkey, as our long-standing partner in maintaining international peace, has not respected the decisions of the duly constituted courts. when we add to this the increasingly aggressive behaviour in the eastern mediterranean, the increasingly difficult situation of christians, the persecution of political opponents and the links with the muslim brotherhood, we can unfortunately conclude that turkey is not moving forward but is moving further and further backwards. in other words, it is time for the european union to finally consider what kind of long-term cooperation it wants with turkey, given the frequent violations of the rule of law in this country.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, madam minister, mr executive vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing today, adopting the european recovery plan, is historic. this is historic for three reasons. the first is that for the first time, we are investing together, united, in investments for the future. the second reason why this is historic is that we are connecting this recovery plan with the transformation of our economy and in particular with the green deal: 37% of these investments will be for the climate and 100% of the european money must not harm the environment and the climate. these are key results, which make a very big difference and which are why the united nations ranks this european recovery plan as the second greenest in the world. the third reason why this is historic is that we will pay back this recovery plan, not by making our citizens pay taxes, but by making those who do not pay taxes today pay taxes: the digital giants and the big polluters who import raw materials like steel into our markets, and do not pay taxes. all this we will decide formally today. that is why today's vote is historic.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, because i am also the shadow for the ecr group, i will try to touch on both issues – the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism and the political view from the group. i would like to thank all the colleagues who worked in the committee on transport and tourism and also on the main dossier on the rff for this final result, which we succeeded in reaching with the council. actually, as you may know, we normally always look forward to how it fits our plans, which is very important for member states, and also to make it flexible for member states. the final result was not so centralised and gave member states flexibility at the same time as keeping reasonable opportunities to control and govern from the eu dimension. it’s also crucial that we look at the grants part of the rff, that there should be a new approach from the member states, not only old plans which no longer fit into reality. it also very much touches the transport sector, where we have a huge opportunity to take the environment-friendly approach to mobility, but particularly taking into account that co2 emissions in transport are still very high in proportion to other branches of the economy. we should also have to check member states’ cooperation with our social partners and others in preparation for national plans for recovery and resilience, and also that it should cover all the envelopes. finally, in the transport sector, we have to remember that the ratification of own resources opens us to access for the commission to go for rff money to financial markets, to borrow this money. if the ratification of own resources is very slow, partly because some of the connecting europe facility and other dossiers are not yet finished and member states are very careful on these ratifications, that’s life.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear rapporteurs, honourable members, vice—president dombrovskis, thank you for having invited the council to take the floor on this very important debate, and allow me to start by congratulating the rapporteurs for their impressive work and to express the commitment of the portuguese presidency to ensure the swift adoption and implementation of this regulation. the covid-19 pandemic caused a once-in-a-generation crisis with deep social and economic impact, which will leave a mark on our societies for years to come. but the crisis also demonstrated that the european institutions could live up to the challenges, showing unity, solidarity, decisiveness, working together on an ambitious common tool. with the help of the european commission, the parliament and the council worked together to put forward the recovery and resilience facility that will help us to heal our wounds and stand back up stronger, ready for the future. this is europe at its best. the rrf is unprecedented in several ways. first, for its size: almost 40 percent of the mff and the next generation eu combined. second, for being the first eu financial instrument financed by common debt, even if temporary. third, for its capacity to provide much needed stimulus and the right incentives to address structural issues in an ambitious and forward—looking way. fourth, for its ambitious policy agenda on climate and digital transitions. and finally, for how quickly it was done. after intense and constructive trilogue discussions, we found political agreement on the text, which will be voted on today in this house and soon in the council. we are very happy to highlight the excellent cooperation between the presidency and the parliament to ensure a speedy entry into force of the rrf. now begins a new journey: a journey that the parliament, the council and the commission will make, together with each and every member state, towards stronger, greener, fairer and more digital and competitive societies. there is indeed a lot of work ahead of us. national parliaments need to continue the ratification process of the own resources decision. member states should present their national plans as soon as possible, and we all need to contribute to ensure their quality without slowing the process down. the regulation now reflects many elements that are important both for the parliament and the council, such as the six pillars, the european added value and the reference to the european pillar of social rights. also important is the link with invest eu, as well as the involvement with local authorities and civil society. the commission will have to properly take these elements into account in its swift assessment of the plans. the parliament will also play a key role in ensuring transparency and accountability through its structural dialogue with the commission. as for the portuguese presidency, i can only reiterate that we are committed to strengthening the eu through a swift and efficient implementation of the facility, ensuring a high degree of inter-institutional cooperation. we are also focusing on bringing the rrf to citizens and business as soon as possible, and we count on your support in this endeavour.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the recovery and resilience facility is a centrepiece of europe’s economic recovery plan next generation eu. it is key for ensuring successful, sustainable and inclusive recovery so that europe emerges stronger and more resilient from the crisis. the compromise reached by parliament and the council in december is a significant achievement. it is a balanced agreement that cements our determination to combine ambitious reforms and investments to secure our way out of this crisis in a lasting manner. the agreement is an important signal that the eu’s institutions are united at this time of crisis. let me highlight some of its main points. the compromise reflects the eu’s ambitions on the green and digital transitions. it sets a binding green target of 37% and a binding digital target of 20% at the level of the individual national recovery and resilience plans. it reinforces the green dimension, particularly by improving the methodology for climate tracking. it introduces new safeguards for digital measures that will help preserve europe’s security and strategic autonomy. while the discussions on governance were not easy, we found a compromise that ensures that the voice of parliament will be heard – and listened to – throughout the implementation of the facility, while respecting the constraints given by the institutional balance. the scope of the facility has been restructured in six pillars and member states are required to provide balanced recovery and resilience plans that respond to these policy areas of european relevance. they will also help to explain how their plans contribute to implementing the european pillar of social rights, on which the commission will shortly present an action plan. at the same time, the compromise preserves the anchor of the facility in the european semester, including the need for member states to address in their plans at least a significant subset of the challenges identified in the relevant country-specific recommendations. finally, the compromise agreement protects the eu’s financial instruments by making the approval of the plans contingent on adequate national control systems. now that almost all member states are preparing their plans at full speed, parliament’s endorsement of the agreement is very important. it is also essential that member states ratify the own resources decision as soon as possible so that the commission can start carrying out its funding operations. we need to put the facility into effect as quickly as we can. european money needs to start flowing to member states to help in their recovery, support their businesses and people, and re-start their economies in a direction that is sustainable and resilient. the commission is in constant contact with all member states to discuss the preparation of the plans. to date, there has been substantial progress and we have a relatively clear view of what 18 of the 27 member states intend to include in their recovery and resilience plans. however, there is still a lot of work ahead. even those member states whose plans are most advanced are now working on translating investment and reforms into operational milestones or on complying with other requirements of the regulation. we are there to help. developing high-quality national plans with a long-lasting impact will be key to the overall success of the facility. they will make the european union and its member states more resilient. for this to happen, we need to find a proper balance between reforms and investment. the plans also match our joint ambition to accelerate the green and digital transitions. member states need to include genuine green and digital reforms and investments to match the targets. the plans should not include a patchwork of small measures with little impact. indeed, they should reflect a clear strategy for embracing the twin transitions and implementing reforms in line with the country-specific recommendations. along with work on preparing and assessing the plans, the commission will also work on the delegated acts required under the regulation. first, the recovery and resilience scoreboard will be the main tool to inform the public on progress in implementing the facility across the six pillars. second, the commission should develop common performance indicators that will be published on the scoreboard. another important and related work-stream will be to create a methodology for reporting on social expenditure. in all of these areas, the commission will work constructively and transparently with parliament and the council to achieve the best outcome. we call on the honourable members to endorse the recovery and resilience facility so that member states can officially start submitting their plans for the facility and to put the facility into practical effect.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted the opinion. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, the recovery and resilience facility is arguably the cornerstone of targeted and sustainable recovery to 'recover' from the pandemic, so to speak, but also to move our economy forward in a sustainable way. from the point of view of budgetary control, however, it is also important in this unique act of solidarity that we first of all know where the money is going, to whom the money is actually flowing, whether it is also distributed fairly and according to the objectives actually planned. the european parliament has negotiated an excellent basis and it is now up to the member states to make the best of it. but we also want to know, in terms of fairness of distribution, whether the imbalances that have existed in some member states will continue, whether only a few will benefit or whether jobs will actually be created sustainably for a wide range of people. and we also want to know that the money is not being used for purposes such as the absorption of regular and recurring expenditure in national budgets. we want this fund to be used for what it is intended to be used for, for the future of europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. madam president, colleagues, the current pandemic has taken the world by surprise. the best response has been the recovery and resilience facility, providing large-scale financial support for public investment and reforms that increase the resilience of national economies and better prepare them for the future. this is €672.5 billion of financial support, the core of the eu's next generation recovery facility. i thank all the rapporteurs, and as rapporteur on behalf of the committee on regional development, i want to thank all those who have accepted that the amount available for the grant support, 60% of this amount will be accessed by the member states by the end of 2024. i think it is also important for the member states and flexibility in terms of macro-financial conditions is important. of course, as we all know, the mechanism is to complement the amounts that member states have available for the 2021-2027 financial period, and the support will only be provided on the basis of plans drawn up by each national government separately, plans whereby member states will have to demonstrate that the money will go ... (president interrupts) ... where it is most needed ... (president withdraws the speaker).
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr vice-president of the european commission, madam secretary of state, it is urgent that the €672.5 billion made available by this recovery and resilience mechanism reaches the economy quickly and is used to modernise our countries. and we can't afford to lose this opportunity. madam secretary of state, countries like portugal should use this instrument, for example, to create an instrument for the solvency of small and mediumsized enterprises. do not delay this process any longer. and that leaves one question: when do you expect the decision on own resources to be ratified by all the national parliaments? because without it, there is no possibility of having this european recovery and resilience mechanism. for the first time, the european commission will use a guarantee from the european union budget to make a loan to member states to promote investment, and the interest and amortisation of €312.5 billion for grants is borne by the european union budget. we must make good use of these financial resources, otherwise it will be impossible to repeat this demonstration of solidarity. and so i ask the vice-president of the european commission: will the european commission be paying attention? will it force member states to come up with good plans, to comply with the regulations? the fact is that there are countries which are not listening to local authorities, they are not listening to the regions or to the social partners, and without that listening and that involvement there will be no approval, no positive opinion, from either parliament or the commission. i would like to end with a request: please do not waste any more time and this is a message to the member states. the economy needs it. small and mediumsized enterprises are in a very difficult situation. hurry up! it's time to move on and act fast.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to respond to the crisis caused by the coronavirus. i would like to recall the resolutions that this parliament adopted in april and especially in may, with the broad support of many parliamentary groups, calling for a fiscal response of solidarity, an ambitious fiscal response and an investment programme that could contribute to the recovery process after the months of lockdown and these difficult months of fighting the pandemic. and i also wanted to assert the role of this parliament, supporting the commission's initial proposal and demanding that the european council validate it at that difficult summit in july, and the work of the last few months to improve the multiannual financial framework and to improve, of course, the regulation as well. because parliament has made this text into a self-contained proposal, a proposal which clearly sets out the investment priorities for all the countries of the european union, for the union as a whole, and those six pillars which the regulation establishes, to help, to shed light and to guide the work which the member states now have to do in implementing the various recovery programmes. this parliament has also ensured that budgetary conditionality remains pending that future revision of the tax rules and that, in addition, the recovery plans are supervised by european citizens, which is none other than the supervision of this european parliament. so nine months of hard work and we now pass the responsibility mainly to the member states, who have to develop, who have to deliver on those national recovery and resilience plans, as i say, under the guidance of the european institutions. and to trust that this response, which is very different from the one europe made ten years ago, will help to open up a new horizon for europe as a whole.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam president-in-office of the council, today we are giving final approval to the recovery fund regulation and it is certainly a historic day. we're going to launch the famous eurobonds, because that's what they are, eurobonds, shared debt to make transfers. the years of the troika are behind us, the years of savage austerity which caused us to suffer a much deeper financial crisis and to emerge from it later. somehow, all those who for years have been denouncing austerity in europe can sing victory. with a european central bank finally intervening in the debt markets and with financial instruments of shared debt to invest, the european union and the eurozone in particular are much better equipped today and the european project has much better prospects. there is much to be done, of course, and the risks are great. the biggest one, in my view, is the premature reintroduction of the stability and growth pact, which, if it is decided to do so, must be urgently reformed because it no longer serves to shorten the way and give perspective to fiscal policy at the level of the european union. we have achieved a great deal as a parliament in the negotiation of this regulation and i would like to highlight this: greater climate ambition, with a new methodology for calculating climate expenditure: with a no-harm principle, which will exclude the large part of polluting investments; with greater involvement of local and regional authorities in the management of the funds, also with new social objectives. i think the european parliament has done an excellent job and i want to congratulate it on that. it is now obviously up to us as a parliament to monitor the implementation of the instrument and we will of course be very demanding of the member states. they comply with the rules of climate spending; they comply with gender equality, which is something that we are concerned about in the execution of the plan as well. but we will also be demanding of the european commission and the kind of reforms, above all, that it will demand. there's a lot of work to do. of course, we must change the tax laws of many member states. after the openlux leak yesterday, i think we have a lot of work to do there. but above all, mr vice-president, we do not want to go back to the kind of anti-social reforms that have done so much damage to our economies. that is not the way to go, and neither the regulation nor the country-specific recommendations indicate that way. the way forward is to build more cohesive societies, to make investments and reforms that are socially just. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. today is a very important day for the european union and i sincerely believe that this house has lived up to the historic moment.
president. - the rapporteurs and other speakers have already spoken at length about the characteristics of this fund, which is absolutely necessary to get our economy back on track, as it is called. but i would like to present another approach in my consideration. i regard this fund as a new opportunity for the commission to steer this instrument, to ensure that the quality, sustainability and effectiveness of the projects are guaranteed. i hope that this opportunity will be taken, because the commission has missed the first and great opportunity to support that recovery - namely, to promote rapid and efficient vaccination throughout the union. don't get me wrong: i am fully in favour of european coordination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to comply with the directive. but it is equally disappointing that the commission has not given sufficient substance to this coordinating role. we have started too slowly, with all sorts of manoeuvres which have only increased the backlog and the uncertainty about contracts, with a confrontation with the pharmaceutical industry as an inevitable consequence. and along the way, some have managed to break the trust. despite all the explanations and excuses, it's not a very nice course. the commission set itself the objective of joining the european union in order to become a geopolitical player. that sounded like music to many of us back then. but with what has happened in the last few weeks, the opposite has been achieved. i feel that a great deal of respect and confidence has been lost, both from the international players, from the commission itself and, i dare say, from the heads of government.
respected chairman, esteemed colleagues, fellow citizens, lockdown and pcr tests along with an unprecedented campaign of fear, what have they brought? they have led to citizens losing their freedom, they've lost their right to move, they've lost their right to work. certain citizens are prohibited from working. millions of jobs were lost. the introduction of pcr tests as a method of determining disease and cause of death is a crime against humanity. it's a crime against every man in particular. in history, the united states has defeated nazism and fascism. now the new nazism that is rising and that no one wants to end in the name of the state will end in the name of free citizens. it's time for free citizens to come together and say enough is enough. we want the truth. enough of your lies. enough of the fear. wars were once fought with weapons, now they will be fought with the truth.
mr president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic crisis has dramatically aggravated the already marked economic difficulties of the peoples of europe, making clear and strong action to support the economy essential. no one's arguing that. action is imperative. however, the need for action must not obscure the content on which we are called upon to express our opinion today. the resilience facility, which is to have €672 billion under the european recovery plan, reveals many uncertainties and shortcomings. europe has been entangled in this logic of perpetual over-indebtedness for too long. as soon as a crisis occurs, we pile and pile up billions of euros of new debt without ever thinking about repayment, or almost. some put off until tomorrow, some would simply cancel these debts, as if there were a magic money that could be made to appear or disappear, depending on the inclination of the moment. but the debt is just a tax deferred. some people talk about their own resources. that means a new tax. in using this 672 billion euro, we must first of all think about our children and grandchildren tomorrow. and to our pensioners today, who will be trying to foot the bill. now more than ever, we need to change this globalist, stateless model that is ravaging our economies. we need to reintroduce national sovereignty into our economic model in order to restore a genuine, strong local economic fabric, capable of withstanding health crises as well as the follies of financial capitalism that kills the real entrepreneurs and the real creators of jobs and wealth. more than ever, to stop this leap forward, the solution lies within the nation, led by clear-sighted and responsible leaders.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. the fight for the funds for the reconstruction fund has been going on for a very long time, since, basically, last spring. we hope that it will be a success, although we have already heard voices in this chamber that some parliaments may not approve this fund, and the funds for the reconstruction of the european economy are really badly needed. preliminary eurostat data show that the gdp decline for the whole of 2020 was as high as 8%. there are countries where the decline will be greater than 10%. perhaps the first two quarters of this year will also end in recession. i would like the recovery fund to be allocated as soon as possible and transferred to the member states. hopefully, that will happen in the second half of this year. the possibility of reimbursing expenditure incurred by the member states is a good solution. indeed, without such spending, the economic situation would probably be worse. my country has spent nearly 10% of its gdp on this, with good results.
mr president, the recovery fund we are approving today is a positive step. the greek members of the left support it, although we consider it completely inadequate. we support it because the issuing of common debt by the 27 with a commission guarantee implements the positive proposal for eurobonds, albeit with a long delay. we support it because the 390 billion euro in grants to the european south and the european east is a serious step forward in transitional payments. but it is completely inadequate because it was designed almost a year ago and in the meantime the intensity and duration of the pandemic, the scale of the crisis and the recession require more drastic additional measures. the left group calls for the recovery fund to be doubled from 750 billion to 1.5 trillion euros, so that we can really have a european 'bazooka'. extend the suspension of the stability pact until 2023 and replace it with a realistic cohesion and sustainable development pact. european debt relief and acceleration of national plans to put this money where it belongs, away from client networks and corruption. this money does not belong to governments and parties; it belongs to people and societies.
mr. chairman, europe made a mistake in the 2008 crisis. it's finally come out. europe, unfortunately, has also been wrong in its approach to this crisis. more than half of the smes that employ more than two thirds of europe's workforce are expected to go bankrupt by the end of the year. the restrictive measures and lockdowns that have been imposed across europe have very little scientific basis. political power centers made these decisions and blindly followed the world health organization. it was politics that decided to use masks. the policy has decided that there is no testing for influenza so for the first time in decades we don't have influenza simply. the policy has decided to use unreliable pcr tests. the policy is that there's no postmortem. because why would people, as they have all these years, die of heart disease, cancer, even the flu itself when all of that can be neatly crossed in a crown? it's all done to get the numbers they wanted to get. and now the commission comes here with some sort of economic measures as a savior, and when will they admit more of their mistake?
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the health, economic and social consequences of the pandemic are much more severe, deeper and longer lasting than we had hoped for a year ago. and the year ahead is still filled with uncertainty for millions of families across europe. in record time, a safe and effective vaccine and a common european recovery package were secured. however, this in itself is by no means enough. now it is the implementation that will be the key to recovery and that will determine europe's position in the world after the global pandemic. digital transformation and long-term sustainability are no longer a matter of choice but a necessity. therefore, if we want to be relevant in the long term, but also if we want to be an actor in creating standards for a digital society that will also be based on our european values, it is essential to make good use of 20% of the funds allocated to the digital transition. the unprecedented crisis is also a time of historic decisions for a new generation of europe. the €673 billion in recovery and resilience instruments must be used efficiently, responsibly and to create added value. we have a huge opportunity here that we can't afford to miss. for the recovery of the european economy, for the recovery of european society and for the recovery of european life.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and social impacts of the pandemic are asymmetrical. they vary from country to country and lead to increased poverty and inequality within europe. the most affected are service sectors such as tourism, on which the economies of several member states depend heavily. covid-19 has also increased demographic challenges, which represent perhaps the greatest threat to the sustainability of the european way of life in the future. i am glad that the final proposal for the mechanism is to address these problems in the light of the amendments i myself proposed. particular attention shall be paid to rural areas, islands, outermost regions and regions facing serious and persistent demographic difficulties. the aim of the project is to develop a european health and safety management system that will ensure that all healthcare providers are fully covered by the health insurance system. it is unacceptable that in certain parts of the union the mortality rate from certain diseases is 30 or 40% higher than in others. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in all of this, we need to support investments that bring european added value, that strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy, and not just return us to pre-pandemic conditions or plug holes in public budgets. the member states will of course have a key role to play in this. in addition to the public sector, it is essential that the largest possible amount of funding reaches the economic operators, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, who have suffered the most from the pandemic, in order to help them to recover their jobs. in this way, we will show that the european union is making a very tangible contribution to the quality of life of its citizens, not just with words but with deeds.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of pregnant women against the risks of accidental abortion is a very good one. prohibitions have been shown not to lead to fewer abortions but to more unsafe abortions, and poland is once again pushing its citizens to be part of this heavy and defeatist statistic. it's sad, it's disturbing and it's not acceptable. the health and lives of your mothers, sisters, daughters, friends are at stake, and they cannot be left at the mercy of a political agenda that aims to ban, restrict, relegate. we cannot hide forever behind the argument of the competence of the member states and i really hope and appeal to all those in poland who have the power to change this shameful decision - to do so. we will always speak out loud and clearly against this in this house, and i want to express my solidarity with all the women protesting in the streets of poland. ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of the lives of european citizens, their health, human rights and freedoms, and if we do not react to this, then we have left the european union in its fundamental values and we will have to ask ourselves: what binds us and unites us, if not the preservation and respect of fundamental human rights? finally, i don't want to believe that some eastern member states joined the european union just to take money from the richer countries; to me, european values are much, much more than that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable high representative, indiscriminate bombing, cholera epidemics, famine: the situation is not good. nothing has been spared the yemeni people in these six years. the saudi-imposed naval blockade and the covid-19 pandemic are just the latest act of tragedy. in this terrible proxy war, in which hunger has also become a weapon, the gap between need and assistance is constantly widening. the humanitarian aid provided by international donors is far from sufficient to deal with an increasingly critical situation. we are in a race against time, where the price paid for inaction is measured in human lives, colleagues. increasing humanitarian aid is certainly important, but it is not enough. the change in the us administration's policy, in particular the end of its indiscriminate support and the review of its arms sales to the saudi coalition, offers us a valuable opportunity to make a fundamental breakthrough in the peace process. it is an opportunity we must not and cannot miss, and i am proud to say that italy, thanks to the consistency of the five star movement and minister di maio, has done its duty by revoking the licences for the supply of more than ten thousand weapons to saudi arabia and the united arab emirates, worth several hundred million euros. that is what we all have to do as european countries. this is the signal we must send, carrying out what this parliament has been asking for years: the eu has also provided support to the yemeni government in the form of a comprehensive export embargo against the coalition actors in yemen. as long as we tolerate the ambiguity of european affairs on the backs of yemeni civilians, we will never be part of the solution, but only part of the problem. until we act, europe will not be a mediator, not even a spectator, it will be an accomplice. every day, 50 children's lives are broken in our silence. i want a europe of artifice, not a europe of complicity.
madam president, the crisis in yemen is going into its sixth year, and we cannot stand by as over half of yemen’s 30 million people threaten to fall into extreme food insecurity, as a senseless war that has killed half a million continues to rage on with no regard for human life. fifty thousand infants die in yemen each year and thousands of children are on the brink of starvation today. high representative, i commend the work the commission and the member states have done to prevent a greater humanitarian disaster in yemen. but this is the moment to step up. the funding shortages faced by aid organisations must be addressed immediately. we have to be honest: acute humanitarian aid only wins you the battle and not the war. all parties to this gruesome conflict must return to the un negotiating table. some welcome steps have been made in recent weeks. after years, the internationally recognised government returned to yemen, and just days ago us president biden reversed the previous administration’s disastrous policy on yemen. by ending support for the saudi—led coalition, he was loud and clear: this conflict has no military solution. yemen doesn’t just need food, it needs peace. this is the time to deliver.
madam president, when a war becomes a carnage, when military targets are turned into school camps, when 3 100 children are killed, more than 5 000 children are maimed, 24 million people - 80% of the population of yemen - are threatened with starvation... therefore, mr high representative, we must take advantage of the change of position of the new biden administration - which has withdrawn its support for offensive operations in yemen, including the sale of arms to the saudi-led coalition - to resume political dialogue, obtain a ceasefire and call on member states to scrupulously comply with the common position on arms sales. we must ensure through the final certificates that no weapons that reach the region end up in yemen; otherwise, any budgetary efforts for humanitarian aid will be insufficient. and the moral weight on our conscience, unbearable.
madam president, for more than six years yemen has been the scene of a civil, regional and international war, in which european union member states are involved, either as part of the coalition bombing the country or for profit, selling the weapons that kill the civilian population in yemen. but humanitarian crises are rarely natural phenomena, although they are treated as such many times in this house. in addition to emergencies, there are victims, and in conflicts, above all, there are interests and responsibility. and the humanitarian crisis in yemen has a clear cause: the war. and there are those responsible: saudi arabia and its allies. yes, saudi arabia, yes, that country that is an absolutist, fundamentalist, misogynist, homophobic and criminal technocracy. how is it possible that saudi arabia is and remains a key partner of the european union? how do we keep trade, military, diplomatic relations normalized when saudi arabia is bombing yemen? that makes us complicit in the murders that are happening in yemen. because many of the bombs that kill people in yemen are european brands. and i ask myself: why are the criteria of democracy or human rights that are tried to apply in other countries not applied here? why isn't there an arms embargo on saudi arabia? why would you do that? because there are too many interests at stake to make our words hypocritical.
madam president, we denounced the human rights violations in yemen, but in 2019 spain continued to export weapons to saudi arabia, with your endorsement, mr. borrell, when you were minister of foreign affairs. we have warned you again and again from this house. it is impossible to defend the human rights flag without credibility. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is resolved. it is this inconsistency which is undermining the international respect for the european union as a democratic power. mr vice-president, if russia has humiliated you, it is because of its own silence on what is happening in spain. how long will you hide behind a piece of paper, pretend you can't hear us? spain is dragging the european union into diplomatic failure and its face represents this failure. enough of this irresponsibility, mr. vice president.
madam president, every ten minutes in yemen, a child under the age of five dies of malnutrition. we've been debating this for half an hour, so count it. it is indeed the result of war. a war that saudi arabia and its allies are waging against yemen. but it is also the responsibility of the member states of the european union. we are now the second largest arms exporter to yemen, and therefore a direct accomplice to the atrocities that are being committed in yemen today, despite a common position of september 2019 calling on member states not to sell arms or other military equipment that could be used for internal repression or contribute to international aggression or regional instability. it may take time to resolve the conflict, but the famine will not wait. the european union must continue and strengthen its humanitarian action on the ground. the decisions taken last friday by the new american president are the first piece of good news. the european union must seize this opportunity - and i know you will - and encourage an initiative at the un with adoption in the security council to impose a global arms embargo on the conflict actors and to impose an end to the hostilities in yemen.
madam president, the humanitarian situation in yemen is the worst in the world, with widespread hunger, disease, attacks on civilians and violence every week, every day, every hour. this human tragedy, which has been exacerbated by more than five years of war, became increasingly deadly with the increasing of sanctions, a fatal collapse of the country’s economy and the covid pandemic. the conflict has displaced more than one million people and over 24 million people – two thirds of the population –require food assistance. yes, mr borrell, you are right. this must stop immediately. the eu high representative and the eu member states have to condemn in the strongest terms the gross violation of international humanitarian law and put pressure on both sides to advance the political process and reach a nationwide ceasefire. at the same time, the eu should mobilise additional resources to address the situation in yemen and to ensure equitable access to vaccines against covid-19.
madam president, yemen has been plunged into a civil war for six years, as my colleagues have been saying. during 2020, the armed conflict has not only continued but also intensified, resulting in blatant human rights violations conducted by all parties involved. all parties need to urgently implement the global ceasefire call contained in un security council resolution 2532. since 2016, this parliament has repeatedly called for an eu-wide arms ban on the members of the saudi-led coalition, and while some eu member states have already done so, others continue to transfer weapons in breach of our common position on arms exports. there can be no military solution to that conflict. after six years, we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to the violence, human suffering and loss ravaging yemen. it is the moment for the eu, mr vice-president, to assert its role as a peace broker and to seize the opportunity of the election of the new us administration to really have an initiative to build peace in the region.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in yemen is a disgrace to all of humanity. the arabian peninsula's poorest country has been ravaged by war, famine, and then an epidemic of cholera. the situation was further escalated by the intervention of saudi arabia, which was first armed by the western imperialist countries and of course politically supported. the situation has gone so far that the united nations has accused saudi arabia of war crimes for bombing water pipes, ports, food factories, hospitals. and while we pay enormous attention here in europe to our fellow citizens dying of covid in their eighth or ninth decade of life, even that is not certain because we don't do autopsies, the hunger virus that has ravaged yemen is almost invisible to us. 100,000 children have died of hunger so far, and a million are severely malnourished and threatened with a similar situation. one child every ten minutes or 150 children by the end of this day alone. it is said to be the worst famine in the world in the last hundred years. it's about the loss of an entire generation. how much more of this hypocrisy and double standards, what media, what politics?
madam president, we are still in a critical phase of the pandemic and europe’s challenges are far from over. there are worrying signs of a third wave, and we also see different mutations rolling across our union. it will hardly come as a surprise as there are concerns that the roll-out of vaccines is not proceeding fast enough. recent setbacks in terms of delay and insufficient production capacity from the company astrazeneca have mercilessly shown how fragile the situation is. the setbacks raise important questions about production capacity in the eu and how we as a union can avoid being too dependent on one single actor, especially when that actor fails to deliver. i would welcome more clarity on how this situation happened and how the commission intends to adapt its strategy accordingly to avoid this occurring again in the future. we also need more data on the transparency and the efficacy of the different vaccines in different age groups. i would like to hear more about what the commission is doing about that. it is clear that our action needs to be stepped up. the union needs to ensure that the amount of vaccine is enough for our citizens in our member states. the public has the right to know what the commission is doing and to know that the commission is leaving no stone unturned. access continues to be crucial for the success of this strategy. we expect to see concrete action from the commission to boost the production of vaccine in europe and the eu because this is the bottom line. we need to ramp up a stable production for europe’s joint and cooperative strategy to be a success and to reach the necessary vaccine coverage in our member states. the s&d group stands with the commission a hundred per cent on this, and you have our full support for the joint procurement process and for making sure that the vaccine is safe and efficacious for citizens.
madam president, debate by debate, and we've had a few now since the pandemic started, all the questions are being asked. solidarity, protective equipment, the ordering of vaccines, the quakes, delays, patents, which we are still talking about this morning - these are essential issues, but they are not the priority. the urgent need today is to vaccinate. that's it. a small 3% of the european population is vaccinated, 40% in israel, 10% in the united states, in a complicated climate, but that's another debate. what is this recipe, the american recipe? it's a sacred union. it's the private and the public, it's all the forces of life, it's defense, agriculture, health, it's the cdc (centers for disease control) around the barda (biomedical advanced research and development authority). to quote moncef slaoui, mr warp speed in the united states, "they were watching arn while they were building factories". and then the bottom line, this massive investment of 15 billion dollars. all of this, mutatis mutandis, is the specification of our future european agency: hera, that's for tomorrow. in the meantime, subcontracting, licensing, cooperation between laboratories, all this is in the contracts - article 5 (4) for example, for the astrazeneca contract - and we are now, with thierry breton, breaking the deadlock.
mr president, vaccination is still the best way to limit the economic damage of the pandemic. the decision of this commission to abuse the coronavirus vaccination to infringe the health policy of the member states is therefore a blunder. member states which had already made considerable progress with their own initiatives, such as germany, italy, the netherlands and france, now complain that their naivety about the european union has pushed them too quickly into the grasping, sluggish, bureaucratic arms of the commission. the quasi-religious dogma that all powers exercised at eu level lead to better results has once again been outdated by the facts. the idea that small member states would have been worse off in the field of vaccines without the intervention of the european commission amounts to a lack of confidence in their own capabilities. this is perhaps only true of belgium, where the administrators are even more incompetent and have even decided to destroy the strategic stock of mouthpieces, allegedly to make way for more reception for refugee candidates. this in turn is a consequence of another blunder of the european union: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of illegal immigration. the issue of the export ban was the highlight and only made the situation worse: the commission's proposal is a perfect example of the blind amateurism into which the commission seems to be falling when it comes to the united kingdom. the conclusion is that the vaccination issue is not the first blunder of this commission, but certainly the biggest one so far. this second-tier commission should resign so that the european union can be put on a completely new footing.
madam president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to speed up the virus, but we can see that the virus is moving faster than our technologies. the result: where the first clinical trials of vaccines began, variants are multiplying and outperforming the efficacy we expected of vaccines. the mutations will continue. life is innovating faster than biotechnology. this shows the impasse of the current european vaccine strategy, which has relied heavily on new types of genetic vaccines. this means that more research will be needed on perhaps more traditional vaccines, to increase the immunity they can provoke, and above all to develop national health infrastructures. there is an urgent need to strengthen virus sequencing and develop rapid and reliable tests, including saliva tests, capable of identifying variants in order to better track their spread. madam president, in these circumstances, how do you propose to reorient the vaccination strategy in europe? finally, we talk a lot about transparency, but you still haven't published the contracts with pfizer and moderna. we also want data to be accessible at the clinical trial level, especially since these contracts are accessible in the us and not in europe.
madam president, it is unacceptable that the commission didn’t see the potential of destabilising the withdrawal agreement and the good friday agreement by proposing the use of article 16 of the irish protocol. now we must ensure that the fiasco isn’t repeated, and part of that is picking up the phone to dublin and belfast. but it also needs a structural commitment with the north of ireland at all levels, recognising its special status as defined by the protocol. alongside consistent dialogue with the joint first ministers, there also needs to be a systemic engagement with all levels of citizens, communities and their elected representatives. we must find a way to ensure that eu decisions that directly affect nearly two million people in the north of ireland, currently without their input, is addressed and resolved. there must be no democratic deficit.
madam president, i would like to begin by asking a question to commission president von der leyen. mrs. von der leyen, do you think it's in the interest of the pharmaceutical companies that this crisis ever actually ends? this whole crisis isn't so much about health as it is about control and money. if it were so much about health, we wouldn't be allowed to use diagnostic techniques that give us unreliable numbers of people infected and dying, we wouldn't be delaying tens of thousands of cancer surgeries. many diagnostic tests that would detect disease would not be delayed, and lockdown and fear campaigns would not devastate the mental health of our citizens, especially the youngest. there's so much talk about developing a vaccine, putting the focus on the vaccine. why not put at least a little focus on developing a cure? some countries around the world are developing a cure. is a cheap and effective drug not in the interest of the pharmaceutical industry or is there simply no money. as far as controls in croatia, let's say we have a situation where pensioners have refused to be vaccinated with the astra zeneca vaccine because there is simply not enough information. this is about control, about covid passports. are you going to restrict the travel and movement of these people because they refuse to put something into their bodies that you don't even know what it is that's going to affect them? is that ethical? citizens must be able to choose their own treatment.
since new year's eve in the european union millions of our fellow citizens have been vaccinated, mainly the elderly and healthcare workers. the replacement procurement avoided rivalry between member states and thus enabled even economically less developed member states to have equal access to the vaccine. the commission has thus shown that there are no first and second class citizens in europe, which is a very important message. the european union has already authorized three vaccines without risking the health of its citizens, following stricter safety standards than anywhere else in the world. we keep this in mind whenever we hear objections against the european union or the commission. of course things are not perfect. we all wish vaccination progressed faster, but that's why we need to look to the future. to this end, i particularly welcome the transparency mechanism presented by the commission. we need to know if anyone is trying to export vaccines outside europe while there are ongoing supply difficulties in the member states. furthermore, in case of necessity, an export ban cannot be excluded as a last resort if public health reasons so require and the rules of the world trade organisation allow. what is crucial is that the european union acts more united than ever. it invests further in the production and research of new varieties and takes the strictest possible sanctions against any contractual violators in order to protect the interests of its citizens and its own credibility. i support the efforts of the european commission, the commissioners and all others to work together to defeat this terrible disease.
madam chairman, we are facing the emergence of a new, powerful and ruthless mafia that is more dangerous than any previous form of organized crime. it's about the mafia using the media instead of weapons, and the media in all its forms, to campaign fear in order to sell billions of dollars of its products. in the last year, almost all the mainstream media across europe and the world have been informing citizens and publishing untruths, completely untrue information we can find in all the media that are published in the same way. it's clear that this is the same funding source that wants to use a fear campaign to enable their financiers to sell several billion of their products each year. be aware the fear campaign won't stop because they're making tens of billions every year.
mr president, when we look back and analyse the situation 25 years after the beijing declaration and platform for action, it is unfortunately not satisfactory. the rise in gender-based violence, the gender pay gap, reduced access to health services, discrimination, marginalization, denied participation in political and public life - these are just some of the realities that women and girls face on a daily basis. it is our duty to correct this and to work persistently to achieve full gender equality and to confront all that prevents us from doing so. with a huge thank you to all those who took part in creating a new direction for gender equality over 25 years ago and welcoming the many advances we have made, we must acknowledge that we are at one of the defining moments today and sincerely hope that we as a community will be on the right side of this fight. today it is the party that fights against violence, against prohibition, against suppression, against restriction, and that brings together, that includes and builds the society whose foundations were laid in those days in beijing. let's not let that slide.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues who spoke today from the bottom of my heart for their understanding and support. what a great threat the astravyansk nuclear power plant poses to our lithuanian people! however, the astarava nuclear power plant poses that threat not only to lithuania but also to the whole of the european union. and that's why we need to act very strongly and unitedly, because this geopolitical project started de facto last year, even without an official operating license and without meeting any international standards. and soon, next month, we're going to start commercial electricity production. this is of even greater concern and requires urgent action by the european union and the european commission to halt the start-up process of the plant until it meets all international safety and security standards. the baltic states have agreed to end in solidarity the commercial exchange of electricity with belarus. and today i strongly urge all colleagues to unite and fight against the astrava nuclear power plant.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the honourable members for the question and recommendations. i heard alarm about this power plant and about its risks and i can assure you that the commission will not spare any efforts to avoid any risks for our citizens from this project. we are as concerned as this parliament is. you raised many topics, among them the issue of electricity trade. the three baltic states decided already in august 2020 that commercial exchanges with electricity from belarus will be stopped as soon as the ostrovets nuclear power plant becomes operational, and commercial exchanges with belarus have effectively stopped on 3 november last year when the nuclear power plant was connected to the grid. we do not have evidence that would confirm that the electricity sold to the baltic market by russia would have been bought from belarus, but we are looking closely at all information available on trade flows and we will continue following the developments. on the other hand, physical flows are unavoidable as the three baltic states are still connected to the grid with russia and belarus. that is why we need the rest of this programme through the synchronisation process with the eu continental grid, and the commission is committed and contributes to it with eur one billion. moreover, the european council conclusions from december 2020 have raised the issue of eu-level measures to prohibit electricity from nuclear power plants from third countries which do not fulfil eu-recognised nuclear safety standards, and the commission services are carrying out analyses on whether obligations under international law and national prerogatives on nuclear energy leave scope for measures at eu level concerning electricity imports from third countries. the commission is also working closely with the baltic states to explore whether specific measures could be put in place in the meantime before synchronisation takes place in 2025. such measures include, for instance, robust investigations on the origin of electricity imported from third countries or defining a grid use tariff also for import flows. some of you also stressed the importance of implementing all the safety recommendations, and indeed the commission insists on that. yet the definition of key recommendations has not been made by the commission but by the european nuclear safety regulators group (ensreg), and i fully trust the expertise of ensreg on this matter. some of you also asked me if we have a second opinion other than our ensreg experts group. belarus is party to the relevant international atomic energy agency (iaea) nuclear safety conventions, including the convention on nuclear safety, and is bound by their requirements. belarus has recently hosted a iaea peer review mission and an integrated regulatory review services follow-up mission foreseen in the third quarter of this year. in any case, the commission will not stop making any efforts to ensure the nuclear safety of the ostrovets nuclear power plant based on the outcomes of this week’s peer review mission, and we know that a second mission must take place to look at all the other recommendations. we make every effort that is needed to ensure the continuation of the voluntary cooperation between belarus on nuclear safety. we will also continue to work on the follow-up to the december european council conclusions and to promote joint action of the baltic states and electricity trade issues, and on the progress of the synchronisation project. i count on your support on this.
in writing. today we are discussing the issue of the astravy nuclear power plant, which is important for the security of lithuania and neighbouring countries. its location is worrying, as the power plant is located about 50 km from vilnius and close to other eu countries such as poland, latvia, estonia. we're at a dead end. we could have avoided that. the failure to close down the efficient ignalina power plant was a mistake; furthermore, the lack of concrete action by the ec and lithuanian authorities in the past regarding the location of the power plant will also be to our disadvantage. this has accelerated belarus' decision to build a power plant in astrava with the aim of selling energy to lithuania. in a special statement in 2011, i warned and called on the commission to step up negotiations with belarus on the planned construction of a new power plant, to set up a bilateral working group to develop common high standards of nuclear safety and to agree on a secure future site for the plant. if my voice had been heard, the astravy power plant problem would probably not exist. what can we do today to reduce the risk to the public once the plant is up and running? the commission should start negotiations with belarus as a matter of urgency, preferably by march 2021, when the belarusian authorities plan to start commercial operation of the power plant, in order to encourage belarus to cooperate closely by suspending the start-up process until all recommendations resulting from the eu's most extreme tests have been implemented and all safety improvements have been implemented. the commission needs to review the existing legal and regulatory framework for the safety of nuclear installations in the eu and beyond, as safety at the astravyansk power plant is a priority.
author. – madam president, this resolution is about principles. i am replacing our colleague, david lega, who has asked me to stress that it’s about the rule of law, human dignity and fundamental human rights. paul rusesabagina is a man who fought for these values. he helped save the lives of hundreds of people during the genocide in rwanda. on top of that, he has been a proud promoter of change in rwanda. mr rusesabagina has fought for rwanda in order to ensure its citizens’ dignity and justice. he wanted them to live in a society of democracy and the rule of law, where human rights are respected. for this, he is being brutally punished. he was kidnapped and illegally detained. he is currently imprisoned in kigali. we demand an international, independent, transparent and credible investigation on the transfer and arrest of mr rusesabagina. we demand that the rwandan authorities allow mr rusesabagina a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, applying international human norms and standards. mr rusesabagina deserves a fair trial, he deserves justice and he deserves dignity. i also want to stress that mr rusesabagina is a belgian citizen. the eu must work to ensure that his rights as a european citizen are upheld at all stages of his trial. so please, dear colleagues, in my name and david lega’s name, support this resolution.
author. – madam president, mr paul rusesabagina is a human rights defender, a belgian citizen and a us resident. he offered shelter and protection to more than a thousand people during the genocide in rwanda. he’s also a very strong critic of president paul kagame and the ruling rwandan patriotic front government. this summer he was kidnapped in dubai and reappeared in kigali under very unclear circumstances. he went missing for four days and, according to his own statement, his hands and feet were tied during that period and he remained in isolation. now he stands on trial for terrorism. he has no regular access to his family, the lawyers of his choosing and his medication. president kagame already pronounced him guilty before the trial even started. we condemn the abduction and ask for an international investigation. we also want assurance that the legality of the arrest can be challenged and investigated independently. if the arrest was illegal, mr rusesabagina should be released. if the rwandan government wants to make the case against him, they should ask for an international arrest warrant. if the grounds on which he is accused are solid, europe shall not stand in rwanda’s way. we call upon belgium to proactively investigate the legality of the arrest and the trial of mr rusesabagina and assure that his rights as a belgian and european citizen are respected. i also call upon the european union to strengthen the human rights dialogue with rwanda and put greater emphasis on respect of human rights, the rule of law, international commitment and transparent governance. we cannot accept that governments act as cowboys. mr rusesabagina is a european citizen. he has the right to fair treatment, and that is the job that we as meps need to do. this should be respected.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened on 27 august 2020 in dubai, with regard to mr paul rusesabagina? no one here knows. however, it is well known that this man ended up in another country without his consent. we know that there was no arrest by the authorities of the united arab emirates, but that he is in prison in rwanda for his actions - i leave you to choose the name of the offence. today we ask for justice. justice for mr rusesabagina, not because he is the most famous of rwandans, not because he is the winner of several peace prizes, but simply because he has the right to a fair trial. our concerns about his arrest, his conditions of detention without trial and, above all, his health are shared by members of the us congress, who have sent seven letters to the rwandan authorities requesting his release. ladies and gentlemen, the international community is watching us, waiting to see what europe will do, because mr rusesabagina is a european citizen. it is our duty to act when the rights of one of our fellow citizens are violated. my colleagues, we are witnessing a crusade against the men of peace in this region. yesterday we heard about the intimidation of the nobel peace prize winner, dr mukwege. today we're talking about the recipient of the presidential medal of freedom. it's time to say stop! we say stop by voting this resolution, to send a clear message. we call for an independent, transparent and credible international investigation into the transfer, arrest and conditions of detention of mr rusesabagina, so that we can get answers to all our unanswered questions.
author. madam president, paul rusesabagina was the manager of the les mille collines hotel in kigali during the 1994 rwandan genocide, where he offered shelter and protection to 1268 tutsis and hutus who opposed the massacre. the rwandan genocide killed between 800,000 and one million people. that protection has ensured their lives. his story of activism is well known and even gave rise to the film hotel rwanda. for years he has been a known opponent of president kagame. in august 2020, rusesabagina was arrested and transferred from dubai to kigali in very unclear circumstances. since then, he has been denied access to independent legal counsel and several lawyers who wanted to defend him were denied that possibility. add to all this that your medical condition inspires much care. for all these reasons, we condemn your enforced disappearance and detention. any detention involving extradition must comply with the procedures provided for in international law. that's not what's happening. we therefore ask that mr rusesabagina be granted access to an independent international inquiry. mr rusesabagina cannot be subject to a political trial. given that mr rusesabagina is a european citizen, we also call on the european institutions to ensure that the legality of his detention and trial is guaranteed.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, paul rusesabagina played a crucial role during the sadly remembered genocide in rwanda. despite being a champion of peace and harmony, he dared to have an opinion and to be, when he understood it, critical of the system of his country of origin. on a scheduled trip to dubai, he was publicly given as being detained in rwanda in august 2020 in a nebulous operation that invoked international cooperation to arrest him. since then, he has been held in custody by rwandan judicial authorities, without any formal charge, in pre-trial detention without end in sight, and has been subject to repeated and unjustified postponements. you're being held without access to a lawyer nominated by you or your family. he is being held without access to his medication, being a chronically ill at-risk patient, despite appeals from his family and the delivery of the medication by the belgian authorities to the prison services. he is being held without access to any information on the reason for his detention or to any evidence of the preliminary charge against him of being the founder and active participant of a terrorist group, which makes it difficult to prepare his defence. i would like to remind and reiterate in this house of our democracy that this set of behaviour by the rwandan authorities is a clear violation of the minimum rights of prisoners. it is a violation of the right of access to justice and a fair trial in the light of international standards, in particular the un treaties and the cotonou agreement, to which rwanda is a party. i call on the rwandan authorities to resolve this case swiftly, transparently and fairly. i also call for paul rusesabagina to be given access to the consular services of belgium, the european union country of which he is a national, access to the medical care he depends on and access to a lawyer appointed by him to assist him in his defence. rwanda must allow justice to function at a level compatible with the maturity and stability achieved in a country so tormented by an unforgettable genocide at the end of the last century.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. my honorable predecessors have presented a certain photograph of a brutal reality, in which dictators repress, persecute, imprison opponents or opponents disappear, are kidnapped. what these dictators are really showing is their weakness and their fear. it is good that the european parliament, although often divided, is speaking with one voice on this issue. a man who is widely respected, not only in his own country but also in the international arena, in the broad sense of the west, should be the object of our concern and solidarity. that's right, yeah. and finally, i wanted to say that i was in rwanda, i was in kigali, i was in the genocide museum, and i had a sad reflection there, also on those european countries that have a colonial past behind them, because they still have something to be ashamed of.
madam president, in 1994 the genocide was committed in rwanda. a million people were killed. most of them were killed with machetes. the majority of the people are silent, they killed the minority of the tutsi people, but they also killed members of their own people who helped the tutsi people save their lives. we're here today to talk about a man who displayed extraordinary and rare courage. he is now a citizen of the european union and deserves all our support and all the legal and other protection we can give him. first, we really need to demand that the authorities say how this gentleman was transferred to rwanda. if he's an illegal, they have to return him to a safe country.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i am a fourth term mep and in every term there is at least one debate, and sometimes more, on the situation in uganda. this country is, you could say, a hot potato when it comes to our perception of africa. we should not, of course, demand that european standards be imposed on this country, because it's a different continent, but we can show other countries on the african continent that are actually doing quite well with democracy, with human rights, with media freedom. i think this should be a reference point for uganda. here, dialogue with that country is very important, but it is also important to show that, while the european union offers economic, charitable and humanitarian aid, it has the right to expect that certain basic standards, which i stress, are shared by uganda's neighbours, both closer and further away, are also respected. it is not about taking european standards and models elsewhere. we europeans should not be teachers, judges, prosecutors, but we should be showing how other countries on this continent are doing. they are doing well, better than uganda, and they can be a model for uganda in this respect. and that is my advice to the european parliament.
author. madam president, i think that there are two lessons to be drawn from the political situation in uganda. first, we should not be surprised by the disproportion between the health measures adopted in the wake of covid-19 and the actual scale of this pandemic in africa. there are 325 deaths per hour in uganda. it is not necessary to go far from the western world to see the dramatic decline in fundamental freedoms, going beyond what is necessary to stop the spread of the virus. this is evidenced by a recent report in the economist, which ranked france among the failing democracies of the world, along with some of its european neighbors. in uganda, between social networks being screened - and, curiously enough, subject to a special tax - and restricted freedom of assembly in the midst of the election campaign, and arrests of opponents and journalists, one wonders what will remain after this sad health episode of the few progress that could have been made on the path to democratization. this brings me to my second point: when will we recognize the ineffectiveness of development aid, which is touted as the sesame seed of both good governance, as the saying goes, and the economic growth of the recipient countries? in this case, despite €1.41 billion since 2007 and €578 million planned under the 11th european development fund, uganda now seems caught in an authoritarian spiral and stubbornly sits at the bottom of the list of the main international development indices. in addition, there are allegations of mismanagement of humanitarian aid, which in the rest of the world seem to be becoming more frequent. the french and european taxpayers are tired of the luxury of money being thrown around without any obligation to deliver, and on this point, as on so many others, the european union urgently needs to reassess itself, at the risk of losing what remains of its popular support.
author. madam president, hundreds of people have been killed, arbitrarily detained, tortured and disappeared in the last election campaign in uganda. several presidential candidates have been arrested and ugandan authorities have gone so far as to claim that the police have the right to shoot and kill anyone attending demonstrations. this isn't the first time this has happened. the ugandan president has been in power since 1986 and has been accused countless times of electoral fraud, suppressing the opposition and repressing his own people. he has even reformed the constitution to be able to be elected indefinitely. the european ambassador, in remarks allegedly taken out of context, acknowledged and congratulated the ugandan authorities on the good organization of the elections. the serious thing is not that these statements are taken out of context, the really serious thing is that, as it turns out, these words were said in any kind of context. the european union also gives hundreds of millions of euros to uganda through its cooperation programmes and we want to reiterate here in the house that we always forget to make development aid conditional on respect for human rights and that we always make development aid conditional on migration control. the ugandan president has always had the support of europe. firstly, because of the role it plays in the fight against terrorism through its contribution to amisom, a mission which, by the way, although supported by this resolution, we cannot forget that it is involved in human rights violations. and secondly, it has been supported by the role that the ugandan government has played in the policy of externalizing european borders, doing our dirty work by preventing african migrants from reaching europe. that is why it is our partner and why the european union has looked the other way all these years. another example of the hypocrisy of european and international policy in respect of human rights. the european union must condemn the authoritarian ugandan regime, make cooperation conditional on respect for human rights and cease cooperation with uganda on migration. freedom of expression and human rights cannot be a bargaining chip.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. uachtaráin, cúis imní ab ea is, an mhí seo caite, nuair a tháinig scéalta amach mar gheall ar an toghchán i uganda. the president, who is the head of the government, is the head of the government. the use of foreign currency in the fight against terrorism is a serious matter. i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you, i'm not going to lie to you. the ugandan authorities are conducting a thorough investigation to ensure that those responsible are held accountable. it was necessary to ensure that the use of drugs in the public health sector was not discouraged by the spread of the virus. ar mhí-ámharaí an tsaoil, thapaigh several countries, including uganda, an deis chun a ngreim a theannadh. i am asking the ugandan authorities to stop the laws in sri lanka that are aimed at air and fraud. i'm not getting drunk in any of the places i'm going to get drunk in the middle of the night. there is sincerity in uganda, in the streets and online. it is more difficult than online now because of the regulations in place, and there is no need to use certain social media. you can't take that law. i would like to teach you about the history of uganda. i can't stop thinking about you and your future together. i urge the ugandan authorities to ensure that everyone who is entitled to vote is elected as a representative. in 2014, phléamar gur coir ab and is to be the mar bhall den phobal ladt+ in uganda. it's a shame that you're going to the law without a license. i hope that the real uganda will be far from being just and that the people will be all right.
the problem of africa is not its people, but its leaders who want to stay in power too long. since then, mr museveni has been in power continuously. to ensure its political longevity, it had to resort to two constitutional changes: the non-limitation of the number of terms in 2005 and, in 2017, the abolition of the age limit which was set at 75 years. this rebel museveni who was committed to democracy, social justice, the fight against corruption and the fight against despotism has probably forgotten his classics. it was already in the late 1990s when, together with rwanda, it invaded the eastern democratic republic of congo, plundering its resources and massacring civilians. and now, by putting his main opponent, bobi wine, under house arrest, by violently repressing protesters, by ordering the suppression of social and democracy funds, by introducing liberticidal laws specifically targeting lgbti communities and by further militarizing his country. europe cannot react half-heartedly to these authoritarian excesses. in the context of new eu-africa strategies, issues of good governance, democracy and respect for human rights must be given uncompromising priority. all european companies present in uganda should demonstrate that they are not linked to any participation in this corrupt regime and i am speaking in particular of the company total which has obtained an operating licence for the tilenga project, an oil project in eastern uganda. in the event of serious human rights violations in uganda, the sanction mechanism will have to be applied to the perpetrators to combat impunity. yes, mr. president museveni, it is not the african people who are the problem, but these african leaders who stay in power too long.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the electoral process which led to the re-confirmation of president museveni in uganda was marked by a number of irregularities and a marked level of violence in the systematic repression of all opposition. in addition, the detention of opposition leaders and civil society representatives is being carried out on the basis of politically motivated trials, accompanied by constant restrictions on internet access for the population. yet if we were to limit ourselves to an analysis of what is happening in uganda, we would simply be looking at the finger pointing to the moon. these elements are present in many countries in sub-saharan africa, many of which benefit from substantial humanitarian aid and development funding from the union. it is time to make full use of the political levers offered by these partnerships, with emphasis on conditionality, democracy, the rule of law and, ultimately, access to the funds themselves. only then can we overturn this paradigm which leads us to condemn ex post the actions of authoritarian leaders still present in every part of the world, when we have the means to contribute to the structural transformation of these countries. if we can use the ndci consistently, we have the opportunity to put this will into practice. europe will be the force of change and a shield for the many against the tyranny of the few or it will not be at all. there's no other way.
member of the commission. – madam president, elections took place in uganda in january and president museveni who is in power, and it has been recalled since 1986, was re-elected for a sixth term. the main political opponent bobi wine announced with 35% of the vote that he is challenging these results at the supreme court. the european union has not made any official statement on the results, since we didn’t have an electoral observation mission this time and our offer to deploy an electoral expert mission was not taken up by ugandan authorities, and domestic observation was obviously curtailed. then there was a full internet blackout for days. it has been mentioned, and access to social media has been disturbed. so there was an overall lack of transparency in the process, very concerning, which we denounced in statements before and after the elections. the overall militarisation of the electoral process was worrying, with repression of opposition candidates during the campaign and the protest in november where over 50 people were killed. the eu called for an independent investigation, which we still await, so that those who are responsible, can be held accountable. there was heavy security deployment on election day and the atmosphere was obviously intimidating for many, especially those of the opposition. bobi wine’s house was surrounded by security forces for days after the elections. now the eu ambassador could visit him last week together with member state ambassadors and was reassured that the leading opposition party, nup, calls on its supporters to remain peaceful while the legal recourse is ongoing. however, there have been large-scale detentions, disappearances and reported abductions of opposition officials and supporters. the deterioration of human rights for political opponents and for civil society is striking, while the authorities maintain an anti-western narrative and accuse the eu and other partners of interference. the human rights lawyer, nicholas opiyo, a fellow of the sakharov programme, was arrested in december. 27 members of civil society, who were observing the elections, were also arrested. opiyo and these observers are out on bail and we are following their cases. the eu is in regular contact with the authorities, and regarding the democratic governance facility, we are having discussions so that it can continue its activities. the eu continues its defence and support of human rights and democracy in uganda. this is a key aspect of our political dialogue and the eu notably calls on the african union and the united nations to join the many ugandans pleading for their human rights more proactively. in recent years, the european parliament has been active about political violence and the discrimination against lgbti in uganda. today, the high representative and myself, thank you for raising it as part of this urgent debate, during which your parliament rightly has expressed its solidarity with uganda’s youth and its aspiration for democracy and the respect of human rights.
the session is now open and we move on to the second round of voting today. we shall vote on the dossiers as indicated in our agenda and the voting period will run from 1.45 p.m. to 3 p.m. the vote shall be taken in accordance with the same procedure as the previous vote and all votes shall be cast by roll-call. i declare the voting period open. you can vote until 3:00. the results of this second round of voting will be announced at 4.30 p.m. the debate will continue at 2.30 p.m. with the commission's statement on the approval and distribution of transparent masks. thank you very much. i don't see any requests for comment. (the sitting was suspended at 1.47 p.m.)
member of the commission. – (inaudible) that we have at our disposal in the fight against the covid-19 virus is the face mask. today, specific requirements regarding the use of face masks have been introduced across the eu under the competence of each member state. however, with all of us now having to wear a face mask in certain settings, it is essential to ensure that everyone can find the mask that serves their needs, while remaining safe. in that respect, the recommendations issued by the european centre for disease prevention and control, as well as by the world health organization, are our trusted scientific references. the rules regarding the design, testing and placing on the market of surgical and protective masks are laid down at eu level respectively by the directives and regulations on medical devices and by the regulation of personal protective equipment. furthermore, we have seen the emergence of other types of masks. these new products, for which the manufacturer does not claim a corresponding intended protective or medical purpose, are covered by the general product safety directive that requires all products placed on the eu market to be safe. our aim is to ensure that safe and compliant products can be placed on the market to meet the needs of all users, including vulnerable groups that rely on visual communication. the world health organization estimates that over 5% of the world’s population has disabling hearing loss. being able to see the lips and facial expressions of the interlocutor is crucial for those who rely on visual communication, such as lip reading or using sign language. this imperative could at first appear to be difficult to reconcile with the barrier function that the masks have to provide. however, this is not the case. existing rules on medical devices, as well as the ppe legislation, are technologically neutral which means that they don’t prescribe specific technical solutions for the products. any design, any choice of materials or components is acceptable as long as the entire mask complies with the defined performance requirements and ensures an adequate level of protection according to the intended use defined by the manufacturer. i believe that the eu rules on ppe and on medical devices are sufficiently flexible to accommodate face masks of any design and materials, including transparent face masks, as long as they meet the same performance requirements as the more widely-used non-transparent masks. i would like to stress that all the relevant actors – manufacturers, standardisation and testing bodies, member states’ authorities and the commission – should work in close cooperation to ensure that face masks continue to be a useful and safe tool in the fight against the covid-19 virus and to preserve the users’ trust.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was wearing a mask that meets the standards, but my sign language interpreter could not translate me, and i did not understand the words of those wearing such masks. unfortunately, these traditional masks cause communication difficulties for nearly one million deaf and 51 million hard-of-hearing citizens in the european union. they can't see the face, the facial expressions, the articulation of the person speaking. a solution might be to wear a transparent mask so that the other person's articulation, facial expressions, are visible. there is currently no transparent mask approved on the european market, and many deaf and hard of hearing people use unapproved masks at their own risk. a good example from home: fear of not being able to communicate may be why many people stay at home. europe must therefore support this development and then approve it, and the masks developed, which are therefore transparent, must also help to ensure that they are distributed. this is the only way to guarantee full access and non-discrimination. my country, hungary, is leading the way in this matter. since january, face shields have been available at government offices for administrative purposes. communication becomes accessible to deaf and hard of hearing people, and the online videoconferencing service of kontakt plays a key role in this. this allows deaf and hard of hearing people to handle cases independently without the physical presence of sign language interpreters, thus reducing health risks.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we are having a debate today on such an important topic, namely masks, distribution, transparency, mask approval. from my point of view - and i say this after having, of course, spoken to many citizens in my country, but not only - i think there is still a lack of clarity, commissioner, in terms of the approval of masks. of course, each member state was able to produce. they were originally imported from third countries, but now it is not yet clear what standards they are approved to. even if each country produces or imports, but when entering the internal market - and i say this as vice-president of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - i believe that we must have a supervision of what is produced and what is imported from other countries in relation to this very important product, as experts see it, the protective mask. of course there are also aspects, as my colleague said earlier, that 5% of people would need a transparent mask. the problem is that we don't distribute -- and in my country they have distributed, and in other states they have distributed -- non-compliant masks. what are we doing, why do we have a consumer protection cooperation network after all? can this network of cooperation tell us what's happened this year since so many masks have been consumed? can the commission inform us what the incidents were, how many, in what quantity was imported, which was non-compliant, what happened to the other? we have european consumer protection centres. what did they do? i think we suffer from a lack of communication and information and then, of course, the citizens' trust in this protection through masks... - not to put aside, but i add, the information that was contradictory from the who, which said that we should wear masks, but also that we should not. what i would like to know, commissioner - you said the rules are flexible - but i ask you: do you not think they should also be safe? so my wish is that all citizens have protection for as long as we are required to wear this mask.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, speaking as i am speaking here at this moment, with the mask, is not a problem for the overwhelming majority of people. however, there is a significant portion of the people who are very limited if they see me talking about masks. and the reason is very simple: millions of people in europe are hard of hearing. the pandemic and the necessary use of masks have caused serious problems of exclusion for all these people who are prevented from communicating by means of sign language, on which facial expression or lip reading depends heavily. it is incomprehensible that after almost a year of lockdown and health protection measures, there is still no comprehensive response at european level that takes into account the communication needs of everyone. i know there's no consensus on the safety of using transparent masks. but i do not understand how this problem has been systematically postponed while millions of people are deprived of the ability to exercise their rights in an already limited context. millions of people who don't have access to full communication, whether it's to attend a class, or to go to a public office to solve a problem, or in an emergency situation or to access medical service. this is just one more form of discrimination to add to the many that already affect the deaf community, a community that no longer had full access to interpretation in most situations and now sees this interpretation capacity even more limited and often completely impossible. at a time when the innovation response is at the heart of the european union's policy agenda, there is no reason not to invest in finding a solution to this problem. we know that the pandemic doesn't affect everyone the same way, we know that the poorest people, the caregivers, the disabled, the unemployed, women, are the most affected, the most affected. but in cases like this, in the case of the deaf community's access to full communication, it's up to us to take steps to correct this inequality and to correct discrimination as it arises. it's up to us, yes, to leave no one behind.
madam chair, if there's one symbol of the coronavirus crisis, it's the mask. whether you should wear a mask really depends on who you listen to and who you trust. if we go back a few years, back in the second, third month when the koran came to europe, you had all kinds of authorities, presidents, prime ministers, from the croatian ones and, i don't know, to macron, who said if you don't have symptoms, if you're not sick, don't wear a mask. this was repeated by all the headquarters in europe, and then in the fifth month, the story turned around and the mask became mandatory, penalties were introduced, and we got to this current situation. so obviously, that point was taken up by someone else. so it's primarily a political decision and who the politician wants to listen to and what measures he wants to put in his own country. it is worth noting, for example, that the court, the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina, ruled that wearing a mask, therefore, is a violation of constitutional rights. unlike these experts in the headquarters who often came there on a political line, we have a whole series of world authorities, scientific papers that are skeptical about all of this, about the crisis, about the masks, about the vaccines, and even about whether this is a pandemic at all.
madam president, according to the world health organization, 5% of the world's population is dealing with hearing loss. many of them use sign language to communicate with their family and friends. so in order to communicate with their environment, they necessarily rely on facial expressions and facial recognition. epidemiological measures introduced to contain the pandemic require the wearing of protective masks covering part of the face. in this way, our fellow citizens with hearing impairments have a significantly reduced ability to communicate, and are even more exposed to social exclusion in these difficult times. to raise awareness of this problem, it is essential to promote the wearing of transparent masks made of transparent material that allow hearing-impaired people to communicate with their environment. unfortunately, such protective masks are many times more expensive than conventional opaque masks. i therefore call on the european institutions and all member states not only to promote the wearing of transparent masks but also to ensure that such masks are accessible to people with hearing impairments. i think the european union, which has the power to support and complement the action of the member states in the field of public health, should be involved financially. through the eu health programme, horizon and other budget lines, and of course through the standardisation already mentioned here. i also believe that this problem must be tackled in the new european disability strategy. finally, we must devote ourselves to combating the irregularity of masks, which is a very serious problem, as i have already said many times as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. let us show once again european solidarity in action.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. trade opens up prospects and trade secures employment; and then there are those who say that trade policy is the lubricant for normal development. no, she's not. trade policy is an instrument to make globalisation fair and sustainable. so it's important to look at where trade is happening most, and that's in global supply chains: over 70% of global trade is happening in supply chains. we have to step in and make sure that the fundamental workers' rights, the environmental standards issue, the paris climate agreement issue really becomes the benchmark for business action across the supply chain. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the common position. i think we can also pass this with a large majority, because that is the responsibility. i do not want the chocolate for children to be made with child labour or the christmas tree decorations to be made with forced labour. in the case of forced labour, commissioner, we must think again about whether we should consider, in addition to the duty of care, - in areas where the duty of care cannot be guaranteed - a ban on the entry of products involving forced labour into the european market. because there can't be different standards for companies with due diligence and companies without due diligence. i think that a supplementary text is necessary here. i firmly believe that we really need to get to the point now of making globalization fair, and we're doing that with a supply chain law.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i am particularly pleased to have a debate with you today on the duty of vigilance of companies throughout their value chains. the commission welcomes the work and report of the committee on legal affairs and the interest of the european parliament in these matters. i would like to congratulate and thank in particular the rapporteur, lara wolters, and the fictitious rapporteurs on this dossier with whom i have had the opportunity to exchange views on several occasions. we share the ambition of horizontal legislative action at european level to implement the union's commitments to a transition to a fairer and more sustainable economy in practice. we see a clear momentum across europe towards a legislative proposal, a sustainable corporate governance, and the commission will deliver on this. the objective of the commission is to foster a sustainable, fair and competitive eu economy as we recover from the current crisis. this initiative will be an important contribution to achieving those goals. the private and public sector should both contribute to achieve this common goal. in addition, it is important that we respect our values, both within and outside the union. we want to incentivise, outside europe, good practices that protect the environment in line with our international commitments and our efforts on climate change and environmental protection. similarly, eu companies should make all reasonable efforts to ensure that practices against human rights, labour and social rights that are not tolerated within the union do not take place in their supply chain. we want effective action: an enforcement mechanism to ensure that forced labour does not find a place in the value chain of eu companies. many eu companies are seriously committed to preventing adverse sustainability risks and impacts throughout their value chains, thereby contributing to addressing key societal challenges. let me insist on this. many companies are already showing us the way, and this is a field where we want to work with companies and to support them, notably by putting in place a strong level playing field at eu level. ample economic evidence shows that sustainable companies, those properly integrating the interests of their stakeholders including workers into their decision-making and paying attention to their environmental and social impact, often perform better, are more productive and more resilient. this should be europe's competitive edge. sustainable corporate governance is part of the overall transformation towards a more sustainable and inclusive economy, and it can contribute to companies' resilience and performance in the long term. companies should carry out sustainability due diligence proportionate to their capabilities, to mitigate social, human rights and environmental harm in their business operations and supply chains. this means that those facing bigger risks would need to do more, as due diligence is a proportionate tool. harmonised eu legislation would avoid the risk of fragmentation of the internal market. as you know, such fragmentation increases the cost for businesses and investors. due diligence rules under eu law would also bring legal certainty and as i said, a level playing field in the whole european union. it is something many businesses and citizens are calling for throughout the eu. the commission will present its legislative proposal on sustainable corporate governance later this year. we envisage a holistic approach where a corporate due diligence obligation is underpinned by directors' duty. we will also consider the complementarity work carried out by this parliament on the report prepared last year by mr pascal durand. specific attention will be given to the costs and burdens for companies, including indirect costs and, in particular, for smes. i can assure you that i will be very attentive to this issue. a range of possible solutions is being considered as part of the impact assessment the commission is currently conducting. this could range from limiting the scope of application according to the size and riskiness of the sector or companies, to adapting certain requirements to the size of the company, in line with the proportionality principle. we are also looking into possible targeted support, such as guidance, tools, funding or technological solutions for traceability. as supported by parliament in your draft report, we are looking to base the future of the due diligence obligation on existing international guidelines and commitments stemming from international agreements. as regards liability, we are assessing this issue as part of the preparatory work for our initiative, having in mind international standards and the need to ensure an effective enforcement mechanism in line with our objectives. let me also assure you that the commission will ensure alignment between this proposal and a review of the non-financial reporting directive, in order to avoid duplication of reporting obligations for companies. we will also ensure coordination and coherence with other complementary initiatives, such as the one on deforestation, in particular when it comes to the definition of 'deforestation-free'. in conclusion, the commission is currently in the process of finalising the results of the public consultation we conducted on this initiative, which closed on 8 february. we received no less than 470 000 contributions. an impact assessment is currently being prepared, and i thank you very much for your support for this initiative, for your attention today, and i am, of course, now looking forward to our debate.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lara wolters, and the fictitious rapporteurs, the rapporteurs for opinions of the committee on development, whose report i shall try to summarize. the introduction of a duty of care instrument is essential to ensure respect for human rights, labour rights and environmental standards, both within and beyond the european union. as rapporteur, i would like to emphasise some of the key points in the opinion of the committee on development. i counted seven. the first is that a binding and harmonised framework at european level is absolutely necessary to ensure a level playing field for businesses. the second is that the obligation to respect and protect human rights, the environment and to avoid corruption risks must be integrated throughout global value chains, products, services and trade relations. third, the new legislation should apply to all sectors, all types of businesses across the european union, with the focus on risk. fourth, these mandatory due diligence processes must cover the activities of companies and their business relationships, including their supply and subcontracting chains. fifth, a comprehensive system of accountability including administrative, civil and criminal liability should be put in place to enforce the new legislation and ensure its application, including through sanctions of all kinds. sixth, it is essential that future legislation is fully aligned with existing legal obligations and standards at international and european level, and that it addresses all types of human rights violations. finally, the chapters on sustainable development and free trade agreements must become binding and enforceable. in conclusion, i hope that this motion for a resolution will be the basis for ambitious legislation. i thank once again all those involved in this crucial matter and wish you excellent legislative work, commissioner.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is a particular pleasure to be able to speak here today under your presidency, and, mr commissioner, i thank you very much for your speech. the whole thing was a great collaboration, teamwork. what we have achieved here has not been easy, we must admit. but it's worth it for the purpose we're trying to achieve here, which is that mandatory due diligence is the important step here, to create more accountability in a european union, including human rights and environmental supply chains. i would like to remind the commission once again: the ball is in your court now. the whole thing is - let me say this again - not a self-runner. it is now time for you in particular to say or suggest to us what we should do if we have not found solutions, namely, also with regard to a certain size ratio of companies, as we do in the end. and so it is always worth considering that rigid measures, as discussed in some member states, are most likely not very helpful for the purpose here. but what is needed in the end for a european framework is full harmonization, although i know that the legal possibilities are limited here. but we should at least try to do it. that is why it is important for us to have legal certainty for businesses, to have relief for smes too, whether it is programmes, digitisation or the obligation of member states to help here too. i think we also need the so-called risk-based approach, because in a first supply chain some large companies have 200,000 to 300,000 first suppliers. and that's not something that's easy to do. therefore: risk-oriented, by sector, by location. and the companies should be able to prioritise themselves here, and civil liability here in this case, even if only in the case that there is only liability, where we can also be responsible for direct damage here, so to speak. so again, it's important for companies to strike that balance. we're very careful about that. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for having succeeded in achieving this balance. thank you for your cooperation.
madam president, living in a globalised world means that we have the chance to share knowledge, cultures, to consume products that we would never have consumed without globalisation. but it also means that we are interdependent and that our behavior here has repercussions elsewhere. the hyper-globalisation we have witnessed in recent decades has also led to economic, social and environmental disruptions that are harmful to all. for example, it has allowed companies to relocate to countries with lower social, fiscal or environmental standards, leaving thousands of protected workers behind and exploiting workers who have no protection at all. having a smartphone, a computer or an electric car also means that mining is over-exploited in africa to the detriment of the people, because these rare metals are often not paid at their fair price. these examples show us that the globalisation we are boasting about, which we are benefiting from, also needs to be framed. just as we have done for the conflict minerals regulation, by having a binding mechanism requiring corporate responsibility, we want the same for all sectors of activity. we want the products that are consumed in europe to be free from child labour, free from forced labour and free from deforestation.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, mr reynders, the message that parliament is sending you with this text, which has been carried forward with conviction and courage by my colleague lara wolters, whom i would naturally like to welcome here, as has been done previously, is a wonderful message of hope and humanity, but also of pragmatism and sovereignty. humanity first, because it means that for us europeans, on this planet, we want all human beings to be equal in dignity and rights. we are of course aware and not naive that all the obstacles and opposition we will encounter in countries that are often totalitarian, where human life counts for very little, where forced labour, slavery and child labour are a daily reality and discrimination is the rule. but we are making clear our will to change this reality and to do so with the most effective lever the european union has, that of trade, exchange, production and import, and we have the intelligence to do so together: politicians, businesses and all stakeholders - trade unions, ngos and consumer organisations. and this message of humanity, commissioner, then becomes a message of hope, a message of hope for the hundreds of millions of people around the world who do not have access to the most basic rights, but who provide us with their labour or the raw materials we so badly need, but who also cry out in desperation to be respected and to finally be able to find justice. this message of hope also concerns our planet, so that it is no longer destroyed and over-exploited in defiance of international rules and its capacity to regenerate and renew itself just to maximize the profits of a few international companies which, cynically, despise all these rights, whereas others try and make a point of respecting them. so i told you and i'll end it there. it is also a message of pragmatism and european sovereignty, because in a changing world, nothing would be worse for the union than to remain inactive and wait for all these upheavals to be imposed on us from outside. we must remain masters of our destiny, as you said, commissioner, and the guarantors of our values inside and outside europe. that is your task, commissioner, and you must translate these fine messages into a text.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the pursuit of profit is a legitimate aim for business, but it must not be achieved at the cost of deliberate violations of human rights or environmental destruction. it therefore seems appropriate to subject companies, and in particular multinationals, to a duty of reasonable vigilance to avoid such abuses. it is a matter of moralizing capitalism. this duty of due diligence has already been imposed in france by a law of 27 march 2017 and i am pleased that this french example is now being followed by the european parliament. however, we must ensure that the future european rule remains reasonable and does not place undue constraints on our companies. it is therefore only possible to support such a text if three conditions are met. first, the duty of vigilance should only apply to subcontractors and partners with whom the company has direct contact and not to the whole supply chain. secondly, it must be clearly seen as an obligation to provide resources and in no case an obligation to achieve results. thirdly, it should only be a burden for large companies, as smes do not have the means to exercise it. i would remind you that this is the position adopted by the french law of 2017 which excludes from its scope companies with less than 5 000 employees.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, mars, nestlé, barry callebaut, mondelēz and other multinational chocolate companies are facing in the united states a lawsuit in which eight children, now young adults, claim that they were used as slave labour on cocoa plantations in the cote d'ivoire. they call for justice, but, the same companies are in the forefront, calling for mandatory human rights and environmental due diligence legislation in the eu. is this a paradox? no. these companies know that years of using voluntary certificates and labels do not allow them to tell that there is no child labour or no deforestation in the chocolate we in europe consume. due diligence legislation does not shift the responsibility from states to companies. states have an obligation to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms – business enterprises are required to respect human rights. the companies must acquire the necessary capacity to do their due diligence in the manner which is reasonable to expect from them. by consulting key stakeholders in their business environment, companies become aware of the most important human rights and environment risks in their entire value chain. due diligence legislation is needed so that there can be a level playing field between companies. as long as we turn a blind eye on human rights violations in corporate value chains, we actually reward those who escape their responsibilities.
i would remind you and my colleagues that under rule 10 (3), no strictures are to be shown in this parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, the pharmaceutical industry is putting on the market a group of some of the most dangerous products to be put on the market in the entire economy. drugs and vaccines can be extremely effective and health-promoting, but they can also be extremely harmful, causing lifelong damage to the health of others and even death. the due diligence in the approval of medicines is something that has protected the citizens of europe and the world all this time. thirty years is the average time it has taken to find an effective vaccine against certain viruses. we're now in a situation where not one person has discovered a vaccine against this virus and won the nobel prize, but in less than ten months, ten or fifteen companies have discovered a vaccine against the coronavirus. it's unlikely and i don't believe it.
the construction products regulation ensures the free movement of construction products in the internal market. its proper implementation is of the utmost importance, bearing in mind that the construction sector creates 18 million jobs in europe and generates 9% of its gdp, and that standardisation is one of the cornerstones of the common market and that this regulation seeks to achieve it. the direct implementation of this regulation ensures that construction products achieve their declared performance taking into account the health, safety and environmental aspects associated with their use, and i am therefore placing particular emphasis on the safety of construction products. the recent series of earthquakes that have struck the european union have unfortunately not been limited to my homeland of croatia. the devastating earthquake left behind destroyed homes, cultural, educational and health facilities, religious buildings and public infrastructure, and unfortunately, human lives were lost. repairing the earthquake will take years and require huge financial investment. however, we will restore the buildings, but the human lives lost unfortunately we cannot recover. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress the importance of this regulation and of all the sectoral legislation in the field of construction, ensuring that the less fundamental requirements for buildings listed in annex 1 to the regulation, including mechanical resistance and stability, also mean the preservation of human lives. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report and call for even more decisive steps to ensure the proper implementation of european legislation, which guarantees the ease of doing business in the single market, but also the safety of our citizens.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the sustainable development of the baltic sea region, which is based on the principles of sustainable development and sustainable development of the baltic sea region. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. only in this way will we create the added value that is the purpose of this programme, as well as the other sources of funding that the european union makes available. i particularly welcome the fact that so much emphasis is placed on small and medium-sized enterprises in the programme. they are the most affected by this crisis and are the backbone of the european union's economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. this programme represents a strong union response to the crisis caused by the pandemic in order to put our economy on the path to recovery and to make it more resilient to future crises, and that is why i support it.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for being here, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the covid crisis has been a trigger at european level. why would you do that? because we realized that we didn't have broad health skills. this is why this programme 'european union for health' is so important because it corresponds to a real political and democratic demand. and it is thanks to parliament that this programme, which will run until 2027, has finally a budget of over €5 billion, 12 times more than the previous programme. it is also thanks to parliament, and many greens, that prevention is given a place of its own, with an obligation to invest at least 20% in actions and projects aimed at promoting health and preventing diseases. as i have often said in the special committee on cancer, of which i am a member, the best cure for cancer is not to develop it in the first place. at least half of all cancers are caused by our environment, by what we eat, by what we breathe, by the cross-exposures we have. that is why europe has a real responsibility and must rationalise its fight against chemical pollution, endocrine disruptors, electromagnetic waves, including, of course, 5g, which is classified as a possible carcinogen by the who. but it is also to meet health security and, in our proposals, there is the idea that public non-profit institutions should be created to manufacture strategic medicines and also active substances that are needed in relation to the shortage of medicines. but there are still big questions, notably on the governance of the initiatives that are part of the eu health initiative. let's look at the lessons from the covid crisis. we saw that the european union paid billions of euros to the laboratories for the vaccines, but these laboratories did not keep their promises. the commission has placed too much trust in them for the production of vaccines. what have they done with the hundreds of millions of euros of public money we have given them for their production capacity? we have no idea, because nothing has been done to ensure transparency, madam commissioner, to set conditions or to involve the european parliament in all the decisions taken in an emergency. so it should not be surprising that in the face of shortages of vaccines, countries such as hungary, the czech republic or slovakia and even austria and denmark are looking elsewhere for vaccines, and in particular for vaccines, which have often not received marketing authorisation from our agency. but it is a reality and we need to do much better at european level. we need to get the labs to deliver the doses they're supposed to. when we asked pfizer, they refused to even share patents, their technology, their know-how. however, if we are to have the doses demanded, we must increase production capacity and be able to ensure wider access to vaccines. why is europe blocking compulsory licences? and this is very important because it allows for the multiplication of production sites without using patents. so, in conclusion, if we want a strong health europe, this requires a real political requirement. politics must take back control and have the right tools to respond to the demands of european citizens.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the covid-19 pandemic is demonstrating, on the one hand, that there is a need and a large margin for strengthening cooperation between states in health protection and, on the other hand, confirms that the response being given by the european union is not up to this need. the failure of the vaccination strategy is a clear example of this, a strategy which favours the interests of the multinational pharmaceutical companies to the detriment of the public interest and the health of the population, a strategy which turns its back on the necessary international cooperation in this field. how each state organises itself to provide health care for its population is a national competence. and this should be the case, because there are very different traditions and realities, ranging from essentially public health systems, in which the right to health is constitutionally enshrined, and universal and tendentially free systems, to the more liberal and commercial perspectives of the right to health. the european union has a poor record in this area. directives such as crossborder healthcare point to an essentially market-based perspective on the provision of healthcare. the country-specific recommendations themselves, which have been made over the years in the context of the european semester, before the pandemic often pointed, as was the case with portugal, to the need to cut funding for the national health service. the consequences of such guidelines are well known, since they weaken public health systems and open the way to private business in disease. in view of this framework, we would say: cooperation between states in this field, yes; centralization of health policy at a supranational level, no.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, to believe that the pharmaceutical industry wants healthy citizens is the same as believing that the military industry wants world peace. as a terrible consequence of a completely failed and wrong policy and reaction to one of the almost daily mutations of the coronavirus, we have the consequence that in croatia alone, more than 110 thousand minor surgeries, examinations of severe chronic patients suffering from cancer and other serious diseases have not been performed, which has resulted in an unprecedented mortality rate in the republic of croatia. the same scenario was seen in all the countries of europe and the world. given the daily corruption that is taking place in the procurement of pcr tests, medical masks and vaccines, we can say that we are in a pandemic of corruption that will lead to the poverty of a huge number of citizens in europe and the world and the unprecedented wealth of a few individuals in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe's health policy will be marked by three things: the crisis, the coronavirus and corruption. corruption at the lowest level, at the middle level, but also at the highest level. it's incredible news coming out of germany these days. it is about the events of a year ago when the german minister of the interior seehofer ordered scare scenarios, so that information is extracted from the documents, so that the level of fear among the population is raised, to ensure fear and obedience of the population, to achieve mental and systemic control of the situation. why, if it's really a pandemic? what's with the marketing of fear? why attack both germany and the people of europe with this campaign of fear? and you knew that once you established a state of fear in germany that it would spread to all of europe. do you know what fear does to human health? do you know what it does to human psychology, mental health? what does it do to human physiology? what does it do to the health of children? i don't believe the stories of those who implement these measures that they really care about health because they wouldn't use fear campaigns.
the crisis caused by the pandemic has unfortunately revealed to us that europe was not prepared to deal with such a serious health crisis. it must never happen again that a doctor has to choose who lives or dies because a hospital doesn't have the resources to help everyone. one reason for this situation lies in the fact that the european union has so far had no systematic health policy at all, which was only partly justified by the division of responsibilities with the member states. this has now changed, with the recognition that the enormous cross-border health problems cannot be tackled by member states alone. the result is a program that is 12 times larger than the previous health program of the european union. the eu health programme must improve the readiness of national health systems for future crises, increase investment in prevention, improve access to healthcare, build a network of health centres of excellence, strengthen funding for the european cancer plan and increase the production of medicines in europe. it is important to note, however, that this programme is not the only source of european funding for our health systems. cohesion policy is of enormous importance for investments in health, especially health infrastructure, but also staff, with the aim of achieving equal quality and access to treatment in all parts of the european union. only through synergy between these two instruments can we achieve our fundamental objective of the best possible healthcare for all citizens of the european union. in closing, i would like to say that the health of our citizens must be our priority and this program shows that we are on the right track. the credibility of the european union really depends on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the union's action in the field of health is one of the most important we are having in this house, particularly in view of the pandemic situation in which we find ourselves. equal access to health, full coverage and access to health services for all european citizens must be the core values of our action in this area. lives are at stake. but sadly, that is not the reality today. we are witnessing great inequalities in access to healthcare and the fact that some medical services and procedures across europe are characterised as irrelevant, marginalised and continuously obstructed. when we talk about such services and procedures, i want to emphasize that this is largely happening in the area of sexual and reproductive health, which is a fundamental part of the right to health. as such, it must be widely available and we do not compromise on that. in the hope that ensuring access to sexual and reproductive health will be implemented through this programme in its full meaning, i stress that women's health cannot be subject to political manipulation.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members and ms o’reilly for their comments. allow me again to underline that the commission will continue to strive for the best possible level of good administration. relations between my institution and citizens, companies, associations and ngos are of key importance and this is particularly true in these difficult times. a transparent, open and accessible eu administration will always remain a priority for me and my colleagues. you can count on that. in this context, the work of the ombudsman, ms o’reilly, is essential and constructive cooperation is a must. the resolution of your house and the committee on petitions (peti) report on the activities of the european ombudsman – annual report 2019 present your view on areas where our institutions do well and where they could improve in the future. in the coming weeks, in line with established practices, the commission will send its detailed replies to all the points concerning the commission which you have raised in your resolution.
ombudsman. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for all of that. i always find this a very informative and very useful part of the year because it gives me confirmation in the direction that i am taking, and it also adds other elements in relation to where i might take the work of my office. of course, all of the work that i do, whether the individual complaints that i get from citizens, from members of parliament, from business, from civil society, and also all of the investigations that i do, are inspired by the work of parliament, the work of the institutions, and also the concerns that are brought to me by citizens. just to go through some of the comments that were made: obviously transparency was very much to the forefront of the comments that were made. i think what people were trying to say was that in order to give, to really execute and to allow citizens to exercise their right to take part in the democratic life of the union, they have to know what’s going on, and they get that through the transparency of the institutions and that is why it’s so important. mr agius saliba, you talked a lot about my work on disability and accessibility. again, that goes to the heart of what i just said in relation to people being able to take part in the life of the union and they can only do that if everything is also made accessible to them, and particularly people who might struggle, people who might have disabilities. ms strugariu, revolving doors, and ms gancia, that was also mentioned by you and by daniel freund. what i keep saying in relation to this particular issue is, rules are there but they’re not always being implemented, and even though i and you believe that there’s a huge public interest in dealing with this particular challenge, i’m not convinced that there’s a strong cultural acceptance necessarily of why this is important. ms auken, yes, the transparency of the council: things are moving slowly but in the right direction. ms złotowski, negotiations on vaccine contracts, access to documents, those are cases that we’re actually dealing with at the moment. ms rego, transparency and frontex, you mentioned as well: we currently have two significant investigations going in relation to some of the issues that you mentioned. ms rookmaker, you want more regular reporting. i think you were talking very much from a private-sector perspective, which is always refreshing. i would very much like to engage as much as parliament wishes me to be engaged in your work and to come and report to you on what i’m doing. i should say that even though the 2019 report does seem quite a long time ago, i actually signed off on the 2020 report just two weeks ago, so i’m willing to come before this parliament as soon as parliament is ready. mr rangel, i greatly appreciated your comments in relation to the structure and the independence of the office, which is its core. ms maestre, yes, the office should not rest on its laurels, i very much appreciate that. ms vedrenne, the conference on the future of europe, also incredibly important for citizens, and we hope to be able to make our input into that. you also noticed the transparency of the brexit negotiations, perhaps in contrast to other negotiations that are ongoing and i think brexit set a template for that and the world did not collapse around it because of the transparency that was there and it’s something that we worked very hard on with mr barnier and his team. thank you for the general comments on the support for my work. clinical trials, vaccines, yes, we worked very closely with the european medicines agency (ema). i have to say in relation to ema that they are very open with us and collaborate very strongly with us. mr freund, highlighting conflicts of interest again, the reluctance to tackle this, i have already mentioned that. mr kósa, the accessibility of the eu websites particularly in relation to, different websites: we have worked on that. we will continue to work on that and thank you for highlighting it again. mr benifei, cancer transparency, an ongoing project with us and with you. conflicts of interest: interns. we’ve worked on that before and we hope that all of the institutions take up the recommendations that we’ve made. the transparency of ema, another issue that was brought up, clinical trials, vaccinations, those i’ve already mentioned. again, i thank you all. i thank ms guillaume and the rapporteurs for all the really engaged work they’ve done. i thank you for your support. it’s lovely to come here and hear it verbalised in that way. and as i said, it gives me and my team confidence in what we are doing. so thank you very much for the engagement. as i’ve always said, an ombudsman is only as good as the support that he or she gets from parliament, and i have received great support from this parliament and that enables my office to do what you would wish it to do, so thank you very much.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, our economy is expected to have ended 2020 and started the new year on a weak footing. this morning eurostat confirmed that the euro area experienced negative growth of 0.7% in the last quarter of 2020. but we still expect growth to resume this spring and gather momentum in the summer. so there is hope on the horizon, the famous light ahead of the famous tunnel. but for now, the pandemic continues to hurt people’s livelihoods and the wider economy. and in this context, our first thoughts should be with the victims of the virus, their families and loved ones. in my own country yesterday a very terrible milestone was reached with 100 000 victims. the negative impact on the economy, and we will have to be aware and even proud of this, would have been much bigger without fast and decisive eu and national action. our decision last march to activate the general escape clause was a recognition of the gravity of the unfolding crisis. together with the decisions to adopt a temporary framework for state aid rules and together with the decisions taken by the ecb, these institutions’ reactions enabled member states to deliver an unprecedented fiscal policy response. total direct fiscal support amounted to around 8% of gdp in 2020 in the eu. together with additional liquidity support measures, it is estimated the contraction of gdp in 2020 was cushioned by around 4.5 percentage points. national and common fiscal response go hand-in-hand. i think we should consider them together. when we, for example, make a comparison with what is happening in america, in the us, we should consider the two parallel track of the european reaction. we are not a federal state. we have to combine and make national and common reactions go together. i am telling this because, today, probably the american, the us house, will finally approve the 1.9 trillion stimulus package of the new us administration. this will also have a very positive impact in our economy. but all in all, i think we have to consider the whole reaction and not only our common tools. vital liquidity support made possible by the temporary framework for state aid prevented liquidity shortages from turning into solvency problems. and we would have had solvency problems without this extraordinary authorised state aid. and we had the contrary. we had the lowest level of bankruptcies in many years in 2020. now our message is clear to further cushion the impact of the crisis. fiscal support should continue as long as needed. and it is the same message which comes from multilateral fora such as the g7 and the g20 and by key international partners. we must ensure that we don’t repeat the mistakes of a decade ago by pulling back support too soon. and so for 2022, it is clear that fiscal support will still be necessary. better to err towards doing too much rather than too little. based on current indications, the general escape clause would remain active in 2022 and be deactivated in 2023. i think conditions are there for a strong recovery. again today, the oecd confirmed in its forecast a growth for 2021 of 3.9% and for 2022 of 3.8%, which is very near to the commission’s forecasts presented one month ago. this is a strong economic growth for an economic area such as the eu. so we will face the crisis. we are still five points behind what we were at the end of 2019, but we have all conditions for a strong recovery in the next couple of years, beginning this summer. fiscal policy then should be differentiated according to the pace of each country’s recovery and the underlying fiscal situation. timely, temporary and targeted measures will allow us to move towards a return to sustainable budgets in the medium-term, ensuring debt sustainability while also enhancing investment. finally, a few remarks on our common eu tools. of course, the rrf is a game changer. its effective implementation could deliver up to 2% of additional gdp by 2024 and create two million jobs, including by accelerating the green and digital transition. it is vital that we make use of this opportunity to increase both the level and the quality of our investment. investeu is another critical tool. we discussed it this morning, and i think that also thanks to the strong support of parliament, this tool will also help to crowd private investment for the transition. the sure instrument has proven very popular. we have already proposed over 90 billion of support out of a total envelope of 100 billion and 19 member states asked for this support despite the very low interest rate environment we are in. finally, ease, effective active support to employment, is also a new and important tool. it provides guidance for member states to accompany labour market transitions from decline into expanding sectors, including green and digital, anticipating change and assisting workers affected by restructuring processes. so, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, with the economic outlook surrounded by uncertainty, we must deliver on all these fronts to make sure the recovery takes hold on our economies, that we emerge renewed and more resilient from the crisis and stronger for the twin transition. this should equip our economy for the present and for the future. and fairer because no one should be left behind.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the pandemic has plunged the economy into a deep recession. the economy has collapsed and public debts have exploded in many member states. if we want to get out of this situation, we need two things: vaccines, vaccines, vaccines and economic growth. but to generate this growth, it is not enough to simply turn the money faucet up even more. finally, we have already seen before the pandemic that the engine of growth in many european countries has faltered considerably. the aim must not be to return to the growth path we had before the crisis, but to find a new, steeper path and take it. to do this, we need two things: structural reforms and investments that significantly increase the potential for growth, including, of course, in the areas of sustainability and digitization. with the facility for building and resilience, which we adopted at the last meeting, with investeu, which we discussed this morning - as the commissioner pointed out - and with a new fund at the european investment bank, we have created programmes at european level which should enable member states to make these investments. now, two things matter most. firstly, the money must flow quickly. in the case of eib funds, it was the member states themselves who caused the failure to flow quickly, and this must not happen again. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the member states do not use the funds they have earmarked for the right investments and thus stimulate longterm growth.
on behalf of the renew club. dear chair, dear colleagues, dear commissioner gentiloni, exactly one year ago, i stood here and talked about the coming recession, talked about how unfortunately covid-19 will have a devastating impact on the economy and on gdp. and the good thing is, europe, the european commission, the council and the parliament have been able to respond and today we have more money than ever to recover from this very covid. what i want to emphasize here today is a message to the member states, a message to the commission. be brave and quick. yeah, brave and fast. of course, states need to be brave in making such recovery plans, and you know that the 1.4 deadline is that we will primarily spur from that money investment and reform of the public sector, but also a big investment in the private sector because they are creating money, they need to be helped to achieve a new and better economy 4.0, a green transition, to invest in the affected sectors. and the commission must be brave and quick, not too much administration, bureaucracy, especially from croatia to be flexible because we are a country that has only used the financial envelope 14.20 and that's why i think we need to react urgently and immediately. ladies and gentlemen, this recovery fund is called the eu next generation and it is therefore a crucial question to ask ourselves what kind of europe and member states we want to leave to future generations. if we do as i said, i think we can leave a better europe, a better member state than they are today.
dear chair, commissioner, colleagues, coronavirus is no longer news today and there is significant fatigue in monitoring the pandemic, although it is clear that the health, social and economic consequences on our lives are much greater than we hoped a year ago. millions of businesses have closed, and millions of families still fear an uncertain future. once again, young people are particularly affected and deserve strong support. it's still impossible to predict the duration of the pandemic, the speed of recovery, but also the future of tourism, the future of education, and the future of offices as workplaces. the trend of digitization has been present before, but the pandemic has dramatically accelerated it. it is therefore essential to make good and responsible use of the european funds at our disposal. to increase transparency in public services, to increase the competitiveness of the private sector, but also to raise digital literacy and skills across all generations, so that no one is left out in the new, digital, post-pandemic society.
madam president, commissioners, mr dombrovskis, mr schmit, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the union, which has been mired in the health and economic crisis for a year, must anticipate future challenges such as the climate crisis. preparing for this terrible future requires a great deal of humility. this includes understanding what can and cannot be continued as before. the budgetary rules, hitherto regarded as immutable, have been largely shaken up, whether we like it or not. after months without a clear position from parliament, i naturally welcome agreement and support in this respect for the extension of the scope of the semester to the union's climate, environmental and social objectives. but some dogmas, such as the 3% deficit, the reduction of the structural deficit by 0.5% of gdp per year or the 60% debt, no longer find any echo today within the union, as they are rendered inoperative in the context. these rules no longer make sense to the citizens. everyone wants to rebuild without leaving anyone behind: we urgently need a thorough review of the rules for our planet and for social justice.
madam president, documents leaked from the german government have clearly shown that the fear of the corona was deliberately generated, and the same is true of european debt. it's time to put people first. the people of europe are in debt slavery, and the coronavirus crisis has only deepened that debt slavery. the monetary system that we live in, that we have in europe, is based on creating money out of nothing, ex nihilo, or printing or electronically, so at the touch of a button on a computer, often without a cover. the only way for citizens to get that money is to take out loans, expensive and long-term. it's time to break the shackles of debt slavery. it's time for central banks to pay, therefore, a certain monthly amount directly into the account of the citizens, debt-free, free, positive, non-credit money. we see this as one way to fund the unconditional, universal basic income program. wealth can only come from freedom, ladies and gentlemen. only by being free from fear, stress and debt can our fellow citizens realize their full life potential. only then can we talk about real development.
the european union's leadership, through its irresponsible behaviour, irresponsible decisions and, above all, its inaction, has led to the loss of millions of jobs. millions of lives have been lost as a result of the failure to perform emergency surgeries, all under a famous fear campaign that has destroyed the economy. there is no welfare state and social rights of citizens without an economy and without jobs. the entire fear campaign is based on completely false numbers, both of the dead and the sick. the only way, legally and medically, to determine the number of dead and sick is to perform autopsies and to calculate the numbers of sick on the basis of medical findings, not on the basis of pcr tests. if we don't change that, we won't be saved in the future.
mr president, there can be nothing but outrage over the killings. but the question is equally why eastern congo has been identified for years with insecurity and uncontrolled militias. the government there is of course responsible. but should we not ask ourselves whether the international community could have acted more effectively in recent years? the shocking attack is, in my view, symptomatic of the context. at the very least, let it be clear that the eu must pay more attention to the drc and the great lakes. the union has up to now underestimated or neglected its importance, indeed its strategic importance. we welcome its strong commitment to relations with africa, but the fact that central africa is not given the necessary weight in this policy calls for a reorientation. a first step is for the eu to invest more and better in supporting the congolese government to deliver the effective reforms that have been announced and in ensuring that they actually make progress.
member of the commission. – madam president, the eastern democratic republic of congo (drc) is not a forgotten crisis for the eu. as ambassador attanasio himself said in one of his final interviews, ‘we are witnesses, we share and we are touched by the fate of this population’. the european union condemns in the strongest terms the armed attacks on monday 22 february, in which the italian ambassador to the drc, luca attanasio, his bodyguard vittorio iacovacci and world food programme driver mustapha milambo lost their lives. on behalf of the european union, i would like to express my most sincere condolences to their families and to the italian and angolan population. we very much welcome the announcement by the congolese authorities that they will conduct a thorough and complete joint investigation with the italian authorities and hold perpetrators accountable for their acts. the killing of the italian ambassador and his entourage is a tragic example that brings home to us the violence endured by the congolese people almost every day. the eu has greatly invested in sustainable development, peace and stability in the region. we have taken diplomatic, political, security, development and humanitarian action. the eu has always condemned all acts of violence by state and non-state actors in eastern drc and has taken a firm stance against impunity. we will definitely continue to do so. legislative initiatives have also been taken with the active support of the european parliament. as you know, the illegal exploitation of minerals is a recognised source of funding for armed groups in congo. the new eu regulation on responsible mining is designed to regulate the extraction of minerals, helping to break the link between the illegal extraction and trade in minerals and conflict. building on the strong determination of the congolese population, the eu is committed to accelerating its efforts, together with the congolese government and other partners, neighbouring countries, as well as regional and international organisations, to achieve lasting peace and stability, put an end to the daily violence against civilians and restore their security and their dignity. luca attanasio, vittorio iacovacci, mustapha milambo, we will remember your names.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today, thursday, march 11, 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. in 2017, while leading the sede mission to the democratic republic of congo (drc), i became aware of the links between the alliance of democratic forces (adf) and the international jihadist network. the adf are not just ordinary criminals who make a living from illegal mining of rare earths and cross-border smuggling. first of all, it's an organization that uses terror on a large scale. the drc has also been involved in a number of armed conflicts, including the ongoing conflict in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). i'm surprised the sec doesn't see the connection. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) to be set up in the framework of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). today, the us state department announced that the adf is on the list of terrorist organizations. unfortunately, once again, eu diplomacy has failed to coordinate with our most important partner, choosing to believe that central africa's problems are far from our borders. nothing could be more wrong. the refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks have clearly demonstrated this.
in writing. the european parliament today shares italy's condolences on the death of ambassador luca attanasio and carabiniere vittorio iacovacci, two civil servants who were brutally murdered during a humanitarian mission in the democratic republic of congo. the manner in which the tragedy occurred and the identities of those responsible for the vile attack remain unknown. last week, the congolese magistrate in charge of the investigation died in circumstances still unknown; this is yet another demonstration of how completely out of control the situation is in the african state and should be a cause for alarm. our diplomats and military personnel, often deployed in unstable and dangerous regions and scenarios, deserve greater protection. the european union, and above all the high representative josep borrell, must join the italian authorities and the un in seeking the truth. the international community must respond to this by sending a strong signal and helping to identify the killers so that they can be brought to justice. our thoughts and prayers today for the families of ambassador attanasio and carabiniere iacovacci are not enough. immediate and concrete action is needed, and it is on this action that the possibility of preventing similar incidents from occurring in the future depends.
the next item is the debate on the seven human rights situations in the kingdom of bahrain, and in particular the motion for a resolution on the cases of prisoners and human rights defenders sentenced to death (2021/2578 ((rsp))).
author. (start of the speech off the microphone) ... the gulf, whether in the area of political, economic or security relations. the european union and the kingdom of bahrain have had a long and rather intensive dialogue on human rights. in the last few decades, we've seen progress in many areas: education, health care, but also the representation of women in public office, which is constantly increasing. cooperation must be steadily deepened, and only dialogue can improve the current situation. i would like to say that it is important to check the facts in relation to the kingdom of bahrain and not to be subjected to misinformation by hostile neighboring states, whether it is spread indirectly or directly through the so-called humanitarian non-profit organizations that are funded by these states. the european parliament's resolution should not become a political game, but should clearly respond to clearly substantiated facts and put pressure on change. unfortunately, in the case of this resolution on the kingdom of bahrain, we have seen this. of course, the situation in the kingdom of bahrain is not ideal, but thanks to pressure mainly from the left of the political spectrum, the resolution goes too far and contains a lot of moot points in my opinion. yes, madam chairman, let's criticize our partners. we're not perfect either. but let's do it in a way that makes it believable. because if we want to change the human rights field and not be ridiculous, we really have to do it systematically and in the truth.
author. madam president, since 2011, following the peaceful uprising of the bahraini people, the bahraini authorities have carried out a severe crackdown on the rights and freedoms of the population, in particular the rights to peaceful demonstration, freedom of expression, digital freedom. as an example, we can mention that in february 2021, a month ago, the arrest of many children who had joined demonstrations commemorating the tenth anniversary of the so-called arab spring uprising, were subject to threats of rape, electrocution. three of them are still in prison today. in addition, death sentences and executions are taking place at an alarming rate, often following confessions obtained under torture and after trials deemed unfair. other factors include the dissolution by the bahraini authorities of the largest opposition party, al-wefaq, which is a peaceful opposition, the persecution of public figures for their activities on social media, and the deplorable conditions in bahrain's overcrowded prisons. it is therefore our duty to continue our work to encourage the country to take measures that go in the direction of respect for human rights and in this regard, i am addressing you, mr high representative, mr borrell, bahrain and other countries use the fact of having a dialogue on human rights as proof that the government respects human rights. we know that this is not the case and the european union must be particularly careful not to be trapped by this kind of talk, because we need action. the speech, yes, the dialogue, yes, but when the speech is not followed by positive actions, it becomes blabber, it becomes useless and unproductive. i hope that there will be a dialogue again, followed by positive developments in the interest of human rights in bahrain.
author. – madam president, in the aftermath of the bahraini arab spring uprising, bahrain authorities continued to violate and restrict fundamental freedoms. human rights lawyers, journalists and political activists face ongoing systematic targeting, and no political opposition is tolerated. the situation of human rights defenders, and women particularly, is extremely worrying. bahrain has continued to execute people, despite the 2017 moratorium on the death penalty, and 27 persons are currently on death row, being subject to extreme psychological suffering and inhumane conditions in prisons. in our resolution, we strongly call on the bahraini authorities to halt their execution immediately and to commute their sentences; this includes releasing all human rights defenders and prisoners of conscience and dropping all charges against them. the eu and its member states should continue to put pressure on the authorities to ensure respect for human rights as part of any enhanced eu cooperation with the country.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i've been to bahrain a few times. it's not enough to say i know this country, but it's enough to say i know what's going on in it. i agree with my colleague, mr zdechovský, who is a co-author of this resolution, and i am a member of the european people's party. we see clear progress on the path to democratization, a significantly greater participation of women who are actually participating in parliament, in power. and we should also appreciate the progress that has been made in education. of course there are problems. and it's good that we're trying to talk about them in the dialogue with the kingdom of bahrain. our cooperation with that country is needed to promote certain common values, which are already being promoted there more than in other arab countries.
author. madam president, ten years after the popular uprising in bahrain, repression has intensified and any space for freedom of expression has been closed: people accused of terrorism are being executed and imprisoned on the basis of testimony obtained under torture, while the european union is providing funds to strengthen the judicial system that precisely issues these sentences; european weapons and research and surveillance teams are being crucial in the repression against civil society in bahrain and in the murder of the yemeni civilian population. far from condemning these acts, the commission concludes a cooperation agreement which makes no reference to human rights, and the member states sign cooperation agreements on defence. if human rights are as important as they say they are, then make the funds conditional on respect for human rights and impose an arms embargo now. the contrary will continue to show us that geopolitical and commercial interests are far above the human and social rights of the bahraini population.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the european parliament addressed the issue of forced testimony and police violence in bahrain as early as 2016. we also referred to the death row inmates mohammed ramadan and hussain moosa, who confessed under torture. today, they still face the specter of the death penalty. this is not an isolated case. many organisations have documented cases of abuse of force by law enforcement, torture and sexual violence against detainees. forced confessions are the basis of many executions. we call today for the death sentences of these two men, mohammed ramadan and hussain moosa, to be suspended and for a fair trial to be held. it is also necessary to carry out investigations into the use of torture against detainees in each case. furthermore, i believe that the police cannot be allowed to use violence, and citizens should not be afraid of them. the government of bahrain should reform to ensure the proper treatment of detainees and counteract any pressure during interrogations.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i am aware of the concerns this house has been expressing for several years in relation to the cases of death row inmates and human rights defenders, and on the human rights situation in bahrain overall, as also proven by the number of ep resolutions on the matter. human rights represent a core dimension of the eu’s engagement with bahrain, featuring regularly in high—level meetings and annual human rights dialogues with that country. during the most recent dialogue, held less than three weeks ago, the overall human rights situation in the country was comprehensively discussed, including specific issues such as the right to a fair trial, the death penalty, and freedom of expression and association. moreover, the recent visit to brussels of the foreign minister of bahrain offered the opportunity to emphasise the importance of human rights as a key element of eu—bahrain relations. it also allowed high representative / vice—president borrell to raise several cases of imprisonment, activists and human rights defenders pleading for a solution, including on humanitarian grounds. we have reiterated publicly the eu’s principled position against the death penalty. the eu has consistently been encouraging bahrain to introduce a moratorium on executions as a first step towards abolition. the eu remains actively engaged on all these cases. the intensification of dialogue with bahrain in the past months will hopefully lead to an improvement of the overall human rights situation in that country, permitting to build a more inclusive society through reform and outreach. for this purpose, we have started sharing eu expertise and best practices in specific human rights related domains with the authorities in manama. we will continue to push in this field, you can rest assured.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today, thursday, march 11, 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. today's debate highlights the restrictions on political freedoms in bahrain since 2011, especially with regard to the shia minority. moreover, this country, like so many others in the gulf region, is distinguished by conditions of detention which must be condemned without reservation. the use of torture, which is prohibited by article 19 (d) of the constitution, and solitary confinement, which is considered a form of psychological torture when used in an abusive manner, are two of the most serious forms of torture. however, we must also recognise the example of bahrain in the gulf region in terms of religious freedom. with the christian minorities in particular, who make up 8 percent of its population, the awali catholic cathedral project, which is expected to be completed in may 2021, will be the bright symbol of the kingdom's policy of openness and tolerance. at a time when the pope's visit to iraq has highlighted the extreme precariousness of christendom in a part of the islamic world, the bahraini model is to be welcomed.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the seven mass trials of the opposition and civil society in cambodia (2021/2579 ((rsp)) the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
i can smell it. the president was asked to be the chairperson of the epp group on this report. the european union has given the chambói people a chance to trade. the commission has also been active in the development of the transport sector, and has been involved in the creation of a number of jobs. the change in the trade name is now due to human rights problems and the fact that it is a trade name. it's no wonder, because the more difficult it is to get to the market in the uk, the more we should be ready and willing to allow them to get to the market in europe again. is ar mhaithe le muintir in cambodia would know that. i'm not going to be able to do it. but we are here in the european parliament, speaking only one language, and we have a clear, simple, and balanced attitude towards the problems of cambodia. i am asking the authorities in cambodia to be careful not to be a burden on the people, but to be a liability. under the circumstances, the fire brigade would be more than willing to use it against you. the naked law of the heart is the law of the human heart. i can't believe what's going on here, but i'm not gonna lie to you. i'm calling on cambodia to stop breaking the law. our message is clear: athbhunaigh an daonlathas agus cinntigh cearta daonna. you should be able to put your hands together and work with those who are in the ghabhadh, get your eyes straight, let them free. that's what i'm saying.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i share your view that the situation in cambodia is alarming. politically alarming, since we are dealing with a regime that is drifting almost towards a one-party regime that holds the vast majority, if not all, of the seats in the national assembly, as well as the senate. but it is also an alarming situation from the point of view of public freedoms: 130 people have been charged and then tried for the sole reason that they were defending human rights, so it is only right that the union should support opposition leaders whose parties have been banned on false grounds, but we must also support trade unionists, journalists, environmentalists who are targeted by the cambodian government today. the commission's decision to freeze part of the customs preferences granted under the 'everything but arms' agreement is good news, but it must make case law, because it is not just cambodia. for months parliament has been asking the commission to apply the same rules to, for example, the philippine regime of mr duterte, which is a totally dictatorial regime and in a certain sense the same could be said for china, my dear colleagues, which also practices a one-party regime and in which human rights are seriously threatened. there must be no double standards, but a coherent application of our european policy.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the european union has a great opportunity, an opportunity to move from talk to the courage to dare. the violation of human rights in cambodia and in many other countries in south-east asia is evident, it is evident that there is modern slavery, the slavery of children aged six or seven, of children aged six or seven, working for two dollars a day in unacceptable conditions in the textile and agricultural sectors, using chemicals which have been banned in europe for decades. if europe really wants to find the courage to stop these outrages, it must change the policies that have relocated production to that country, it must change its attitude of being complicit or even of being the cause of these violations. how do you do that? the free trade agreements must be corrected. i fought a hard battle three years ago to get cambodian rice on our tables, to get it into the mouths of our people and our children. the european union had succeeded in putting the safeguard clause in place. we must move in this direction, tariffs and safeguard clauses are a means of preventing modern slavery, we must prevent these workers from being enslaved in the chemical and in the labour aspect. we need to prevent dangerous substances from these countries from getting into our children's mouths, not least because covid is stopping screening and health testing for many of our citizens. so let us think about protecting italian rice, let us think about protecting our own production: this is the best way to prevent slavery from ever happening in these countries.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, since 2017 when the cambodia national rescue party, the only parliamentary opposition party, was dissolved, we have been witnessing cambodia’s rapid transition towards an authoritarian state. the ruling cambodian people’s party is ruthlessly violating the cambodian constitution in its successful attempts to seize all powers and to suppress all dissident voices. recent trials of opposition leaders and supporters are an onslaught on the last remnants of democracy in cambodia. this is also an intimidating message to surviving opposition ahead of upcoming elections. the strong response of the european union to political persecutions and human rights violations in cambodia is long overdue. an immediate review of the relations with cambodia is really needed. our support must be directed at the cambodian people and their struggle for the rights to freedom of association and expression.
madam president, prison sentences, criminal proceedings and political persecution against dissidents and opponents are a feature of authoritarian models that are a threat to peaceful coexistence in the world. when a political regime such as that of cambodia represses dissidents, the victims are all of us. cambodia is about ten thousand kilometres from this parliament, but we feel the repression against its political dissidents is very close. the eu should be the strongest voice in the world in defending human rights and taking effective action to combat regimes that violate them. if our voice is not strong enough or our actions are not effective enough, it is not because repression against fundamental rights around the world has diminished and we are no longer needed so much, but because the eu has weakened and reduced its inner exigency to the point that its voice arrives but sounds phonic.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, human rights and democracy continue to be denied in cambodia. over the last four years, the cambodian authorities have taken a series of repressive actions designed to curtail political opposition and restrict the space for civil society. cambodia has become a de facto one-party state. last year, the eu decided to partially withdraw the tariff preferences granted to cambodia under the everything but arms (eba) arrangement, due to serious and systematic violations of human rights. still, over the past months, there has been a surge in the arrests of human rights defenders and political activists. the trial of opposition leader kem sokha was suspended in march 2020 and there is no indication on when it will resume. earlier this month, a cambodian court sentenced nine leaders of the opposition in exile to 20 to 25 years in prison. we, as the european union, made clear in our statements that the cambodian authorities must respect the rule of law and due processes. the eu remains open to re-engaging with cambodia, provided cambodia demonstrates substantial improvement regarding the eu’s concerns, as highlighted in the commission regulation on the eba withdrawal. cambodia should take immediate action to reopen the political space in the country, in particular a swift resolution of the case of kem sokha and reinstatement of his political rights; reinstate the political rights of the opposition members banned from political activities; fully release all human rights defenders and activists recently put under detention; and reverse the shrinking space for civil society. the eu reiterates its call on the cambodian authorities to initiate a process of national reconciliation through inclusive dialogue. we strongly believe that the principle of democratic inclusion and dialogue, including with civil society, is key to lasting peace and stability in the country.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today, thursday, march 11, 2021. (the sitting was suspended at 12.56 p.m.)
we now move on to the second round of voting today. we shall vote on the dossiers as indicated in the agenda and the voting period will be from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods and all votes shall be cast by roll-call. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:00. the results of this second round of voting will be announced at 4.30 p.m. we shall resume the debate at 2.30 p.m. with the oral question to the commission on the longterm vision for rural areas. (the sitting was suspended at 1.47 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the long-term vision for rural areas by mr norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000005/2021 b9-0006/21) (2021/2549 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have the honour to present our oral question on the long-term vision for rural areas in europe. i am not speaking here merely as chairman of the committee on agriculture, but as someone who grew up in the countryside and knows the opportunities, the benefits, but also the challenges of rural areas. i therefore look forward with great anticipation to the commission's communication on a long-term vision for the future of rural europe up to 2040. the aim is to stimulate a debate at european level on the future of rural areas and their place in society. a place in society and the acceptance of rural areas are crucial for me. rural areas provide not only food, recreation and the preservation of traditions, but also a way of living together, which is increasingly being lost in today's individualistic society. and they are also, above all, economic spaces, cultural spaces, they need their own infrastructure and they have their own lives, they are not just annexes of urban spaces where you can relax on the weekend. for me, rural areas are the heart of europe and what europe is at its core. they represent the diversity and the diversity of our countries and regions. but rural areas also have to keep pace with climate change, social and economic challenges. the commission must address the urgent issues for rural areas. it is about transport planning and mobility, about school and education, about demography and welfare, broadband and social cohesion and civic engagement. coordination between the different policies involved will play a central role in ensuring the success of the rural agenda. rural development under the common agricultural policy will be crucial to support rural areas. regional and local authorities also play a crucial role in the social change needed to achieve the objectives set by the european union. they are at the forefront of tackling the challenges facing europe. for example, ladies and gentlemen, one positive aspect is the issue of climate. i am convinced that rural areas will be the first in the european union to achieve climate neutrality, because they not only emit emissions, but are able to capture carbon through growing forests, grasslands and arable land. i therefore ask the commission specifically how it intends to achieve the following: firstly, the coherence between the cap and the other policies. secondly, the involvement of regional and local authorities in rural areas in the preparation, analysis, design and implementation of the long-term vision for rural areas. thirdly, the alignment of the strategic plans with the future vision for rural areas, including, for example, the question of whether there is a mid-term review. fourthly, the appropriate and treaty-compliant distinction between the financing of rural areas under the cap and cohesion policy, taking into account the objectives of each policy area as described in articles 39 and 174 tfeu. i am very much looking forward to your answer, commissioner. thank you very much.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am very grateful for the opportunity to discuss the future of rural areas with you. article 174 of the treaty stipulates that particular attention should be paid to rural areas in reducing regional disparities and addressing backwardness. i am very thankful to mr lins for mentioning it. unfortunately, in the current regional development fund regulation, adopted in 2013, the word ‘urban’ was mentioned 46 times, while the word ‘rural’ was only mentioned five times, and always in relation with urban. fortunately, we can see some progress in the recently-agreed common provisions regulation, where a reference to rural and local has been introduced. there is a growing perception that the role and importance of rural areas is underappreciated: 56 percent of the respondents in remote rural areas felt left behind by society. this needs to be addressed in light of our overall eu objectives for rural areas. the european union needs to get closer to its rural citizens. this is precisely the purpose of the long-term vision, which i will be developing together with my colleague, commissioner ferreira, and under the supervision of vice-president šuica. the vision is intended to provide an ambitious, yet realistic, idea of how europe wants its rural areas to look by 2040. about the question of how the commission will ensure coherence between the cap and other policies involved in developing our long-term vision for rural areas, as announced in our communication on the vision for mid-2021, we will translate our goals into a number of actions that can enhance the synergies of our policies and of our funding instruments to support rural areas. we have identified the concept of rural proofing, drawing on territorial impact assessments and better monitoring of rural areas as key actions for the future. europe has made full use of its policies and funds in supporting the development of rural areas in a coherent manner to make sure that all of them pull in the same direction. last june, i, together with vice-president šuica and commissioner ferreira, sent out a letter to member states asking them to fully and coherently use the possibilities under all policies supporting the development of rural areas and to ensure that the specific needs of rural areas are duly taken into account, both under the cohesion policy programmes and under the cap strategic plans. in december, as a part of our cap recommendations to member states, we stated that addressing the structural challenges and inducing favourable dynamics across rural areas will require mobilising a mix of public and private resources and initiatives, using the cap as well as other european policies and funds. more recently, the commission provided member states with guidelines to support them in the preparation of the recovery and resilience plans to assist member states in preparing their plans. our main target should be social and territorial cohesion. as mentioned in the plan, we have been very clear that member states should seek compatibility and possible synergy in their recovery plans. as a part of our guidelines, we ask that member states should outline how their plans will contribute to enhancing cohesion, taking into account local, regional and national disparities, including their rural—urban gaps. in particular, we stated to member states that investing in rural areas through a long—term vision will stimulate urgently-needed economic growth in those areas and contribute to reducing the digital divide. i’m happy to inform you that, from a preliminary assessment of some of the draft plans, it seems most member states will follow the commission’s advice. member states are at different stages of preparation, but we already see some good examples of planned investments in the agricultural bioeconomy, agri—food chains and forestry. several instruments also foreseen for rural areas are broadband, health and local communities as well as rural transport accessibility. about the question of how the cap, which is currently being negotiated, and particularly strategic plans, will be harmonised with the future vision for rural areas, the cap strategic plans will help us to address issues such as generational renewal in agriculture and rural business development, which are key for the future of rural areas. it is important to underline once again that the cap alone cannot address the challenges faced by rural areas, and the vision goes beyond agriculture. and the last question about how the commission intends to draw a proper and treaty—compatible distinction between funding for rural areas under cap and under cohesion policy, taking into account the objectives of articles 39 and 174 of the treaty: rather than a focus on distinction and delimitation between funding under the cap and cohesion policy, the commission is addressing how to improve synergies and complementarities between funds to better address the specific and very diverse needs of rural areas. i would like to give you one example on complementarity. farmers who supply the short supply chain should be supported through the cap, whereas the processing industry should be supported through the recovery fund. member states should also consider using the recovery and resilience fund to accelerate reforms and address the challenges faced by rural areas, including those posed by demographic change, and making them better prepared for the challenges and opportunities of the green and digital transitions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the more people live in cities, the less attention is paid to the countryside. and in this european union, three quarters of the people live in cities, and accordingly the role of the countryside is often forgotten. it creates jobs, it creates landscapes, the people in the countryside feed us because the farmers are there, but the countryside also creates security. i therefore believe that the rural areas deserve attention and that people living in rural areas have the same right to a quality of life as people in cities. i think it is right that the commission has announced that it is going to proceed with a fundamental reflection, a strategy for rural areas, and we are having a debate on this. people in rural areas have the right to school, they have the right to health care, they have the right to the internet and much more. and above all, rural areas are not simply appendages to cities, and rural areas cannot absorb what has gone wrong in cities. the fact that concrete is being used, that biodiversity is being destroyed, does not mean that rural areas have to do all this. rural areas are not just nature reserves, they are living spaces where people have to live. rural areas also have a right to be led, including politically, by those who live in rural areas. i think that local governance is also extremely important.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. but the concrete and harmonious development of the rural world requires, above all, very clear coordination and coherence between the different policies and decision-making levels. i therefore stress the importance of action by the actors and authorities at regional and local level who, on the ground, in rural areas, are the real experts in their realities. we therefore hope that the commission will correct its position and unambiguously defend the partnership principle of the new cap. we have the support of the commission for parliament's position in the cap negotiations in defending the fundamental role of the regions and regional and local authorities and in ensuring their current role in rural development.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the villages in my country, romania, are emptying. of the nearly five million romanians who have gone to work outside the country, the vast majority come from rural areas. villages in romania and many other european countries are emptying because they no longer offer opportunities, especially for young people, because they often lack access to basic infrastructure, education or health. when we think about the future of rural areas, i don't want to think about a future where villages become museum pieces. i want us to think about how we harness the natural, human and cultural resources that exist in the villages to bring young people back. the good news is that we have the tools at european level to do this, but we need an integrated strategy. first, we need to invest in the development of basic infrastructure, we need to build hospitals, schools and roads in the villages. secondly, we need to make the cap work for real farmers, to encourage young farmers, to protect biodiversity. and thirdly, we must make villages attractive for non-agricultural activities too, whether it be tourism, cultural activities, the relocation of small entrepreneurs from towns to villages, all these are things we must support including at european level and i hope that the future strategy you are preparing, commissioner, will go in this direction.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i thank you for your comments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. we must ensure that the cap reaches the diversity of farmers and not just the large farms. so please fight for a maximum limit of 100 000 euros in funding and for the doubling of funding for the first 20 to 30 hectares. that would be a big help in the countryside. who are the first to leave the countryside? it's the young women who are leaving. those who move with their families to the city because there is no childcare in the countryside, because there is no public transportation, because there is a poor school system, because there are no school buses to take the children to school, and every day mom or dad has to play the taxi. we'll have to see about that. these are the realities we have. broadband expansion would also be central. because today, in the age of teleworking, it is a new incentive to stay in the countryside and make at least part of one's working life from there. this is a core requirement. and also to our colleagues on the conservative side and also to the governments: yes, rural areas can contribute a lot to climate change. the cap must be climate-friendly. so, if you'll just drop your resistance, we'll get through this together.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. because of the limited time available, only two points: the first, which you raised in your speech, is the allocation of cap funds to agriculture and farmers only. now, it's often the case that these funds are also used to develop rural infrastructure and even to create jobs outside of agriculture. i hope that the article 174 you have invoked here will finally be respected and that you will see to it that the reconstruction plans drawn up by the member states deal with this matter properly. and the second problem that is very important for the future of european agriculture is the disappearance of farms and the abandonment of land. you're the co-author of a report in the court of auditors that says that in the last decade, about 4 million farms have disappeared. that's a very large number. this process is ongoing. the process of leaving the land is also underway. in my view, without the proper positioning of farmers in the supply chain, this process will continue.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i welcome this debate about rural areas. the truth is irish rural communities are in crisis. vital services such as post offices are being shut down with no return in sight. small local businesses are sinking, with only lip service from government, due to rip-off insurance and other such hardships being landed firmly on their laps. it’s ironic that whilst we debate here rural communities, our government has been playing a complicit role in the decline of rural ireland. shameful that the bank of ireland, one which the irish people bailed out and remain the largest shareholder, is to shut 100 branches across rural ireland, another crushing blow to these communities. similar with the recent withdrawal of ulster bank. the message from parliament today should be that any new legislative programmes must be rural-proofed in order to ensure all our communities are protected and enabled to reach their full potential.
mr. chairman, thank you. ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the vision for rural areas, it is impossible, apart from agriculture, to mention energy. so, collecting and consuming has defined how and where we live throughout history as well as social relations throughout history. the density of the energy source is a key factor in this. for one gigawatts of power to come from, say, solar power, it takes a lot more space than for one gigawatts to come from, say, nuclear power. for much of the past, energy was based on wood, on biomass, and 90 percent of people lived in rural areas. then we have industrialization in the middle of the 18th century, and we've got to the point where today three-quarters of europeans live in cities. now we go back to low-density energy sources, which require a lot of space. and where is there enough space for solar power, for wind power? in the countryside. where's the biomass? in the countryside. however, none of this will happen unless the money actually stays in those spaces. we in croatia have devastated rural areas by centralizing the money from the forests, which they are rich in. so he was leaving those premises. that can't happen with energy. the energy money must stay in rural areas, which are its main source of future.
rapporteur. – mr president, more than a year has passed since europe, together with the rest of the world, was struck by one of the worst crisis events in a generation. the covid-19 pandemic has affected all aspects of our lives. many have lost their loved ones, or have not been able to visit their families. millions of bars, restaurants and businesses had to shut down. theatres, museums and classrooms continue to stay empty. europeans have struggled greatly in this period and our hardships, unfortunately, are still not over. despite the fact that the months ahead of us are unpredictable, we cannot stay idle. we have the responsibility to put forward a vision and adapt to newer circumstances. with this in mind, i have worked on the guidelines for the next annual budget of the european union. the programmes, policies and agencies we have built over the years have been facing tremendous new challenges. this is why the next annual eu budget has to be a recovery budget in all its aspects. a recovery fit for all regions, all sectors and all generations. first of all, we need to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises receive our full support. smes constitute the backbone of the european economy, representing almost 99% of all businesses in europe and providing around three-quarters of all jobs. only by protecting that backbone that has been hit particularly hard can we ensure a vibrant economy that boosts investments and tackles unemployment. furthermore, the next budget should provide all the tools needed to close the digital divide and enable europe’s economy and public sector to be at the forefront of the accelerated digital transition. this transition obviously also needs to be in line with the targets set in the european green deal, by turning green challenges into investments and opportunities in order to achieve a more sustainable, inclusive and resilient economy. the covid-19 crisis has put european health systems under unprecedented stress and exposed shortcomings in production capacities for vaccinations and other essential medical products in the union. so in order to achieve our budgetary priorities, we will need to ensure a strong european health union based on solidarity and collective responsibility. – kolegice i kolege, pandemija je još jednom pokazala ogromne zdravstvene i gospodarske razlike između država članica. zato su ključne kohezijske politike koje bi novijim državama članicama trebale omogućiti hvatanje koraka u razvoju, ne zato da bi se same države što bolje pozicionirale nego radi toga kako bi svim europskim građanima osigurali jednake uvjete zdravstvene zaštite i jednake mogućnosti. u tom kontekstu, ne možemo ignorirati niti činjenicu da se cijela europa, a osobito neki njezini dijelovi suočavaju s negativnim demografskim trendovima. demografski deficit dugoročni je problem koji zaslužuje sveobuhvatan pristup. stoga je nužno osvijestiti važnost demografske komponente svih europskih politika pa i u kontekstu članka 174. ugovora o funkcioniranju europske unije. poseban fokus u ovim smjernicama stavili smo na mladu generaciju. mladi su još jednom posebno pogođeni posljedicama ove krize, uz povećanu nezaposlenost i negativne učinke i na obrazovanje i na mentalno zdravlje. stoga je potrebno iskoristiti sve mogućnosti financiranja kako bi se povećala uključenost mladih na tržištu rada ali i njihove obiteljske i životne prilike. gospodarski rast neraskidivo je povezan i s unutarnjom sigurnošću, zaštitom naših granica te očuvanjem schengenskog prostora. stoga mi je posebno drago što smo i u ovim smjernicama naglasili važnost daljnje integracije schengena što bi nesporno donijelo gospodarske koristi za cijelu europu. i would like to thank colleagues from all the political groups who have contributed to the guidelines we will be voting on later today and tomorrow. we have an opportunity to achieve a strong, unified and comprehensive position on how we want to shape the next year, through one of the most efficient tools we have. the annual budget, as part of the unprecedented investment packages, has to be a reflection of how best to use the resources at our disposal in order to prepare europe for the new post-pandemic digital era. this is an important step in achieving a unified position of parliament, a clear signal to the commission and to the council about our priorities and also a message to our citizens that the eu will continue strengthening all successful programmes and policies in order to ensure a stable and fair recovery.
madam president, today we are sending once again a clear message of support for countries wishing to join the european union. the future of western balkans remains within a united european union and we encourage them to continue the path of reforms towards european union laws, standards and values. we in the s&d group particularly insist that all countries in the region uphold fundamental rights and the rule of law, defend the freedom of media and fight corruption. we are and we will remain a reliable voice for enlargement in this house, but we will not compromise on these issues. at the same time, the european union should live up to its commitments, and therefore preserve its credibility, which has been under pressure during the ongoing pandemic and because of persistent blockage in the council. accession talks with north macedonia and albania, as well as a visa-free regime for kosovo, should be implemented without delay. upholding our values means not opening new chapters with serbia without clear progress related to democratic standards, minority rights and fundamental freedoms. to conclude, our engagement and commitment to the european future of the western balkans should remain a priority for the union, not just side policy. in the turbulent times we are living in, we must keep in mind that enlargement is the most effective foreign policy instrument the european union has to promote our values of peace, democracy, fairness and prosperity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to thank my colleague for the excellent report. kosovo has a long way to go in its aspirations to become a future eu member. this includes, of course, how the country deals with its minorities such as the ashkali, the roma and others, and how it will ensure inclusion and equal participation in all areas of life for these people. the new kurti government will be measured in this respect too. but the debt of supply must not be seen only unilaterally the eu must also now supply in visa liberalisation. it cannot be that kosovo is the only country in the western balkans that is excluded from this liberalisation, even though it has fulfilled all the conditions since 2018. if the eu is to maintain its credibility and contribute to the stability of kosovo, it must act now. the visa exemption would be an important step forward, especially for young people.
madam president, speaking of the countries of south-eastern europe on their way to the european union, it has become clear in this crisis that europe has less and less to offer them. can they be offered democratic standards after europe goes into an accelerated covid passport procedure, without public debate. unfortunately, i've seen a lot of things in the croatian parliament. can freedom of movement be offered within schengen after the introduction of the covid passport, which is now undermined? this is a dangerous precedent that can go to discrimination and segregation, are these european values? already in managing this crisis, there has been a serious undermining of human rights. can these countries replicate european standards, and if so, why is the european medicines agency approving vaccines without any independent studies, without any knowledge of long-term effects? unfortunately, that's what we see today. in this context, the constitutional court's decision to say that the wearing of masks is unconstitutional in bosnia and herzegovina and in southeastern europe is advanced by many european decisions and institutions.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, freedom, dignity, the right to work, the right to move, the right to health care, to be equal among all and to have equal rights as everyone else. unfortunately, that is only possible if we live in a democratic society based on truth, not lies. for a year now, we have lived in europe and in a world where truth is declared to be a lie and a lie is declared to be the truth. there's all this talk about the death toll and the number of people who have covid-19. it restricts freedom of movement, the right to work, and those numbers are completely false. for the first time in history, the british health service has admitted that at least 25% of people who are thought to have died of covid-19 did not die of covid-19 at all. we need to fix that. the truth has to come out. citizens must have freedom and equality.
madam president, a european area of justice based on mutual trust is a chimera unless the systematic abuses of the rule of law in some member states are addressed. in spain, high courts lead the crusade against catalan independence and for this endeavour they misuse the tools of judicial cooperation, like european arrest warrants, and want judges across the union to collaborate in their warfare. but mutual trust is not blindness. the courts in germany and belgium have refused to join the catalan leaders. what is the reaction? contempt, benighted ignorance and bullfighting arrogance. the spanish judge simply dismisses the rulings of its european counterparts. this behaviour of the spanish judges is an embarrassment for the european justice system. tolerating it is devastating to the rule of law, and you know it.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, law and justice are the foundation of any society. law and justice are guaranteed by the judiciary. when the judiciary is corrupt, as it is in the republic of croatia, then the entire state is corrupt. the republic of croatia is the most corrupt country in the entire european union. all eu citizens know this and believe, 97% of them, that corruption rules the republic of croatia. there is practically no mafia in the republic of croatia. in the republic of croatia, drug trafficking, extortion, practically nonexistent. what do all the mobsters do? they're in the business of taking money out of the european budget. they are now respected builders, farmers, electricity producers, and in essence they are a modern mafia that robs and destroys the republic of croatia and the budget of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, until a little over a year ago, we could only travel in europe with a personal identity card or a passport. of course, that's not the case anymore, and we're gonna need a whole series of confirmations. one of those certificates will be a negative test for covid-19. for that reason, if we don't want discrimination, and we don't, then this test has to be free. the other important topic i want to talk about is the epidemiological map of europe, a map that is colored in different colors and that is being done at the nuts 2 level. that leads to some errors and irregularities. i'll tell you on the example of croatia where we have the entire adriatic coast, the croatian coast from istria to dubrovnik, marked with the same color. this is not correct and that is why i am asking for this to be done at the level of nuts 3 regions, namely the croatian counties. commissioner, i believe you can solve this problem, and i believe that in doing so, we will have a much better situation in this challenging tourist year.
mr. chairman, after months of pandemic lockdown, summer is returning to europe. both children and adults have spent a year online behind screens and now deserve offline recuperation and the usual summer carefree. at the same time, thousands of families in dalmatia, istria and other parts of europe make a living from their work in tourism. it's how they fund their kids' college and develop their neighborhood. that is why the 23 million europeans who make their living from tourism expect us to do everything possible to save the season. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure the protection of the health of workers and the environment. only a joint european response can save the tourist season, remain a global tourist leader (excerpted).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the covid-19 certificate is not a vaccination passport, it is not an entry ticket or a replacement visa the latter would also be an attack on freedom of movement and, as the european data protection supervisor said, it is not a tool to fight the pandemic. what it can do is to facilitate freedom of movement under the present conditions. like a test, the certificate can only be a snapshot. what are our premises? we need equal, rapid and uncomplicated access to vaccines and tests, which must be free for all, comprehensive data protection, consideration of the concerns of millions of commuters, no trickery under the heading of other purposes, additional measures, and discretion when it comes to the recognition of vaccines. we have negotiated well together, and the greatest thanks go to the staff. the only question we could not answer was: what is the medical value of the certificate? how safe are the vaccinations, the tests? what does recovery mean? with multiple mutations, we don't even know if the vaccines are effective. we built the certificate on assumptions without sufficient scientific evidence, knowing full well that viruses like covid-19 are among the greatest threats to humanity - 3.1 million people have already died from it. the right to life and health requires that the patents for vital vaccines be finally released and made a public good. it is not the pharmaceutical companies that need more money and power, but the who, so that vital medicines can be distributed fairly and quickly around the world. and more than any defence fund, we need a european health fund, a public health research silicon valley. because the most important thing we have is our life, we must make the protection of life a community task.
madam chair, covid apartheid is contrary to the fundamental rights described in the convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it's against the constitutions of all democratic societies. we must not forget that the covid vaccines do not protect against infection or disease. so if we introduce this, we're going to have a huge number of people who will spread the infection. in 2020, without a covid vaccine, eight and a half billion people in the world did not get sick, get sick or die. that's 99.9 percent of the population. now we're going to vaccinate these healthy people and set up a possible health bomb. the flu that had been around for millennia is now gone. in germany, 509 cases last year, and 184,000 the year before that. most of the world's citizens cannot believe that.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the measures taken by the member states in the context of the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, it should also be emphasized that the certificate does not divide citizens into those of the first and second order as it includes vaccinated persons, those who have recovered from covid-19 and persons with a negative test. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. otherwise, it would simply lose all meaning. it is particularly important that the certificate is in place before the beginning of the summer to allow citizens to cross the borders of european countries more easily. we can't waste any more time. the problems that have arisen since the start of the pandemic in the service, transport and tourism sectors are having a profound impact on the economy and millions of our fellow citizens. they just can't afford to lose another summer. this is a test on which the credibility of the european union passes or falls.
honorable chair, the internet platform facebook has spread like a smiling parasite first to the united states and then to europe and then to the rest of the world. this platform, falsely representing itself as apolitical, is a platform for all citizens, a platform where anyone can speak freely. but two years ago, they were exposed as a very political platform, very dangerous because it's a political platform that doesn't go to elections, but decides, and that's on its own, what's true and what's false. but worst of all, they were directly involved, so facebook was directly involved in the 2019 european parliament elections, and then it was also involved, and in a completely wrong way, in the united states presidential election. we have to stop them. they are the greatest social danger to democracy.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, the eu has a long—standing and clear position on the freedom of religion or belief. it remains a key priority of human rights in line with the eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2020—2024. pakistan’s blasphemy laws carry very harsh sentences, including the death penalty, which the eu strongly opposes under any circumstances. they are often misused to silence opponents and their defenders, and to discriminate against religious minorities with severe negative effects on the rights of freedom of expression and freedom of religion or belief. ahmadi muslims are probably the most at risk. the hr / vp, josep borrell, reiterated the eu’s concerns regarding the application of the death penalty and the misuse of blasphemy legislation during the last eu—pakistan strategic dialogue with foreign minister qureshi. the tragic cases of individuals on death row because of blasphemy accusations also point to the structural weaknesses of the pakistani judicial system and the unequal access to justice. in pakistan, the eu is strongly engaged in promoting and protecting human rights. we are providing support to pakistan to strengthen the rule of law and access to justice and to legal representation. the generalised scheme of preferences plus, the gsp+, granted to pakistan, requires to demonstrate progress on the implementation of 27 international core conventions, and it constitutes a strong leverage for the eu in terms of monitoring any direct advocacy with pakistan. further, through the eu delegation in islamabad and the eu special representative for human rights, the eu regularly raises individual human rights cases with the pakistani authorities at the highest levels. this includes the individual cases of shafqat emmanuel and shagufta kausar. we do this in close contact with civil society partners. honourable members, interfaith dialogue is one of the priority areas of the eu—pakistan strategic engagement plan. in december 2020, the eu delegation in islamabad convened a roundtable to promote interfaith and intrafaith dialogue and understanding. you can rest assured that the eu will continue our regular dialogue on human rights with the government of pakistan and that the particular issues of blasphemy laws and the death penalty remain important points on our agenda.
in writing. the court case involving shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel is, along with that of asia bibi, one of the landmark cases of the criminalization of blasphemy in pakistan, since it resulted in the death sentence of these two christians. indeed, while muslims constitute the majority of those charged with blasphemy, as the country's human rights commission notes, religious minorities are disproportionately represented among them. according to data provided by the national commission for peace and justice and quoted by the bbc, 776 muslims, 505 ahmadiyya muslims, 229 christians and 30 hindus were charged under various clauses of the blasphemy law between 1987 and 2018. other yet, non-muslim minorities make up only 3.6% of the country's population. moreover, pakistan seems to be sinking deeper into obscurantism every day. the prime minister's call for the islamic world to emulate this legislation is evidence of this, and is in addition to a litany of outrageous statements, particularly against france. in response, our parliamentary debates will remain in vain as long as the european union persists in extending its generosity to a state that openly flouts our values.
the second round of voting today is now under way. we shall proceed to the vote by voting on the items as indicated in our agenda. the voting period will be from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods and all votes shall be cast by roll-call. i therefore declare the second round of voting open today. you can vote, ladies and gentlemen, until 3 p.m. the results of this second round of voting will be announced at 4.30 p.m. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. (the sitting was suspended at 1.47 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'digital europe' programme and repealing decision (eu) 2015/2240 (06789/1/2020 c9-0109/2021 2018/0227 ((cod)) (rapporteur: valter flego) (a9-0119/2021).
the european parliament will give its green light to the digital europe programme today. as a citizen of the european union and as a reporter on the programme, i am very happy about that. first of all, i want to thank you all again from the bottom of my heart for your great help and support. we made it on time and without delay. today, digital europe is getting its formal end, or rather its grand operational beginning, which frankly we are all looking forward to. from virtual meetings and remote voting, to paperless offices, to supercomputers and artificial intelligence, to smart homes and driverless cars. the digital revolution is happening, in fact, fast and irreversible. at the same time, the negative economic consequences of covid-19 will be severe and severe, and it is here that the digital industry plays a key role as a key tool to increase europe's competitiveness and resilience. as a powerful tool for a better standard of living and a more comfortable daily life and work for citizens, as a driver of significant new revenue streams based on state-of-the-art business models and services. it's digital as well as green. the main objective of this mandate. the main objective of this decade in our modern europe, and the wide application of digital technologies and solutions, is key to overcoming the investment gap affecting both the private and the public sectors. in 2021, as we nostalgically look back on 2019, the importance of digital is undeniable, even for the most skeptical. yes, we've all, whether we like it or not, gone digital in the past year. our work, our business, our personal and business communications, our social and leisure time. in the past year, everything has gone digital at an enviable rate, but to achieve a breakthrough in economies, that digitization must be backed up by true digital transformation. this means a deeper shift that addresses our internal processes, our human skills and our culture, because the birth of europe is reserved for those who underestimate the importance of digital transformation. the digital europe initiative aims to contribute to a stronger europe in which digital technologies also make better healthcare and public services in general possible. better education, better climate change, digital transformation of public and private businesses, transport, tourism, industry, medicine, the whole economy and the whole industry. the commission will continue to support the development of the digital economy, in particular through the development of the digital economy in the union. the digital europe programme aims to contribute to achieving european digital independence and enhancing competitiveness in the global digital economy, while also taking a responsible stance towards new generations, new processes and new jobs. the digital europe programme will play a significant and powerful role in the coming years, but i want to remain absolutely realistic in my forecasts. 7.5 billion euros is a lot of money. and with that money, for example, one country, croatia, can significantly accelerate its transition to e-society. however, digital europe is only one and in itself is still a limited aid, a programme, and it is not a programme to build digital capacities with the most european money. it is therefore important that there is cooperation and synergy between european programmes, that there is coordination, that we know who is working and how. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. digital and green, ladies and gentlemen, are therefore the two indispensable elements of every next european programme and project, and the key priorities of the programming period ahead. if europe wants to be a leader in the years ahead, not a follower, a green digital europe really has no alternative. take the field of health care and vaccine development. the challenges that we've faced in the last year because of the coronavirus pandemic are absolutely unprecedented. in such difficult times, we need a europe that is ready and stronger than ever. a europe that has the most advanced technologies, a europe that has the best experts, a europe that can stand up to the virus on its own, a europe that is not lagging behind the world's technological superpowers but is steadily catching up and overtaking them, a europe that is developing its own vaccines and a europe that is investing huge sums in research. that's what we need. digital europe is our greatest ally on this journey and one of the most important programmes that, through its activities and funding, contributes to the further development of all european countries, both today and in the future, in all aspects of life, including health and medicine. today, the digital europe has its operational start so much awaited and needed. from today onwards, member states like croatia take on a great responsibility. digital europe offers us a lot of money and opens up huge opportunities, and it is up to us to know how much of that money and opportunities we can use operationally. and so, in closing, i would like to invite the public sector, universities, educational institutions, the private sector, small and medium-sized enterprises and large companies to prepare projects because this is a historic generational opportunity that we must not miss. future generations, in fact, depend on what we do now. so let's not do today's work with yesterday's tools and expect great results tomorrow. very soon we will see whether europe will tap into a digital twilight or return to the global technology race's favourite. as a reporter, as a european, i have confidence in this other one.
the just transition fund is a key instrument to support the areas most affected by the transition to climate neutrality and to avoid greater regional disparities. the proposal for more sustainable and green technologies represents an opportunity for the development of the european economy, but, let's be honest, it also comes at a high cost, affecting the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs in the global market. we need to show solidarity with europe's most vulnerable regions to make the transition to cleaner energy as simple, efficient and painless as possible. i am thinking in particular of those regions which, for various reasons, are technologically lagging behind and cannot, without help, keep up with the changes that the european green deal is imposing on us. it should be stressed that when we talk about helping businesses, we are not talking about helping losers, economic entities that would not be able to do business profitably anyway. on the contrary, the eu's regulation creates additional costs for the economy, which it must then bear to a large extent. it is important to create new high value-added jobs, foster innovation, strengthen our energy independence and provide security for the economy and for those who matter most, our citizens. of course, as far as the amount of the amount is concerned, we must be aware that this is a compromise, that it would have been better if that original proposal had been adopted, but now we are simply in the situation we are in and we need to make the most of it. the global energy transition is inevitable, with the need to ensure higher quality and more sustainable growth and competitiveness for the european economy, cleaner and more accessible energy for our citizens, and a healthier environment and a safer planet for future generations.
madam president, despite all the challenges europe is facing, the reform of eu migration laws cannot be postponed and new tragedies cannot be neglected. states with external borders still face high migratory pressure and face the risk of becoming hotspots. we cannot risk another crisis like the one we saw in 2015. tragic outcomes we witness at sea have to be avoided. some progress has been made. the package presented last september was not a work from scratch, but has developed from previous experiences that we have to take into account. we now have to take this opportunity to continue with the progress made. the parliament is ready to do the work, and we expect from our colleagues in the council the move towards compromise. all the pieces of the puzzle are on the table: better protection of external borders; efficient asylum procedures where we distinguish between refugees and economic migrants; humane reception conditions for refugees; effective returns and better cooperation with third countries. now it’s time to act.
the protection of the inalienable dignity of every human person is the foundation of modern europe, and it certainly does not begin or end at european borders. at the same time, member states have a clear responsibility to protect their citizens and to protect their borders, clearly with respect for human rights and all international standards. the problem arises from the lack of capacity of our partners, primarily in south-east europe, but also from the abuse of the international protection system, which is often linked to smuggling activities. such situations are also visible in croatia, a country that is particularly exposed to migratory pressure, but also that guards the longest land external border of the european union day and night. we need to strengthen the capacity in south east europe to manage migration because it is important for both human rights and for the stability of south east europe.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, over 76% of the citizens of montenegro want to join the european union and want to implement reforms based on european values. that's the most convincing in the region, the most convincing in the western balkans. however, unfortunately, little or nothing has been done in this regard in the past year. something about the covid crisis, something about the lack of, i would say, willpower and determination, something about the elections in montenegro. and it's clear that that needs to change now. the goal must be to get europe back to 28 member states, and i am sure that 28th should be montenegro and we will all be the winners - both europe and montenegro, but also croatia. that's why i'm calling for everyone to work on it. i call on montenegro to implement the necessary reforms, and i believe and am sure that this parliament, and i personally, will be great friends and partners of montenegro in this.
mr president in this day and age, it's essential to have a language that you can negotiate with. this contributes to mutual understanding and mobility within and outside the union. language competences are now considered essential skills for life and work. it is good to see that the erasmus+ programme is promoting language learning, in particular through the wider use of online tools. e-learning, when adapted to the specific needs of the participants in the programme, can help to ensure equal access, including language learning. it is very important that erasmus+ also provides for the learning of national sign languages. and in hungary, this summer, you can take a state-recognized sign language exam in hungarian, thanks to the hungarian sign language act, which is unique in europe.
mr president, commissioner, erasmus+ is without doubt the european project which has contributed most in its more than 30 years of existence to the creation of a genuine european cultural spirit and a european identity, beyond the mere sum of our 27 identities. after months of work, we have today approved the new erasmus+ programme for the period 2021-2027, which will be the most ambitious and inclusive programme to date. i want to acknowledge and congratulate the work of parliament, which has pushed for an increase in the budget and for it to remain a flagship programme within community policies, even though we would have liked to reach the 41 billion euro we proposed. progressives can be satisfied. we have succeeded in turning erasmus+ away from its traditional elitism and into a programme for those who could not afford it. students in higher education, vocational training, adult education and non-formal learning may participate in the programme, which will also be open to people with fewer opportunities, people with disabilities and immigrants. new programmes are being introduced: european universities and centres of vocational excellence, and also discovereu, which gives young people the opportunity to discover europe's diversity while travelling, to learn about europe's heritage and to connect with others. erasmus should now continue to expand into primary and secondary education, creating links with the future european education area to continue to grow and supporting member states in achieving inclusive and quality education. in short, erasmus+ has brought more to the european project than many initiatives and we must continue to invest in erasmus, more than ever, especially in these times when student mobility has been reduced.
mr president, erasmus represents freedom of movement and knowledge, that is, everything that is not europe today, that is, what does not distinguish it. moving to kill covid passports undermines human and fundamental rights, discriminates against anyone who can't or won't get vaccinated or tested, and threatens patients' rights by forcing them to share medical data. and all this in an emergency procedure without any data protection guarantee, without an impact assessment of such a regulation. it's a triumph of bureaucratization, waste of money and obsessive control by politicians, with the danger of passport permanence. knowledge is also compromised, and different scientific research and opinions are ignored. labeling and censorship are ubiquitous, even nobel laureates are deleting themselves from social media and services. instead of a science where debate should never end and should go on forever, this is more like a cult of opinion.
madam president, what are we waiting for? there is existing capacity for vaccine production around the world – in bangladesh, pakistan, south africa, india, indonesia and latin america – and it could be operational within months. who are we kidding? voluntary licensing is rejected by pharma companies, the sharing of data and technology doesn’t happen, and the achievements of covax are far from great so far. richer countries have received more than 80% of vaccine doses and low-income countries just 0.3%. and while we in europe will be able to go on holiday this summer, they are still in a middle of a health crisis! we risk ending up in a vicious circle where we have booster doses for variants in the eu while the countries needing them the most have no access. the best protection against variants is sharing knowledge. let’s be honest about wanting to save lives. we need a european position in favour of a trips waiver.
madam president, commissioner, minister, it has been said here that we all have the same objectives. that's not true! the european union is increasingly isolated in its stubborn defence of the interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies at the expense of global health. it was public resources; it was the people who largely paid for the research, paid for the production, paid for the risk insurance, paid for the advance purchase of the vaccines, but the multinationals became the owners of the intellectual property rights of the invention thus financed, rights which, not constituting an absolute value, now block the most rapid progress of vaccination, sacrificing lives, lives which should, rather, constitute the primary value. to advocate a supposed balance between one thing and another, between business and health and life, is in itself a deplorable approach to a global public health problem. to say that the problem is not patents but production capacity is to forget that by abolishing patents production capacity can be increased, which does not dispense but rather requires determined action by the states to stimulate this increase in production capacity.
madam chair, the arrival of spring 2021 has exposed the entire failure of the approach to the covid crisis. the number of cases worldwide is falling whether you've had tougher or milder measures. then why are they still pushing lockdowns? although a huge number of people are not or do not want to receive the vaccine, the numbers are falling. the number of cases is falling primarily because of the high prevalence and sedentary nature of the virus, and then everything else. covid can't be cured by a vaccine because it mutates like the flu. when these vaccines were approved, they were known only as what the pharmaceutical companies that make them had written to themselves in their studies. there has been no independent confirmation from any university that the vaccines are really safe and effective. why are the world's top experts who advocate cheap and effective drugs like hydroxychloroquine and others being rejected in advance? because companies have built new capacity for several billion covid vaccines a year and now they have to sell it. some with long histories of corruption and tens of thousands of lawsuits for other products. despite all this, they are talking about what, about a permanent pandemic and that must not be allowed and i ask the commission president to tell her friends in davos that they will not get away with it.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance programmes, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enif). the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken by member states on the labour market and on the labour market in general. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. in the face of the unfortunate mass migration we are witnessing today, we need clear, targeted and modern rules to respond to the needs of the labour market.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, artificial intelligence is increasingly being used in the european way of life. 61% of europeans have a positive view of it. yet, 88 percent say that it should be handled with care. as we discuss this important topic in croatia, not far from zagreb, construction is beginning on one of the most advanced technology campuses, which will develop, among other things, autonomous vehicle technology based on artificial intelligence. such examples show that the application of artificial intelligence is the future of the european economy and that it will become a commonplace, an integral part of technologically advanced production in the coming decades. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the rules on artificial intelligence. and let me also specifically point out the potential that artificial intelligence has in the healthcare field. as many as half of our citizens believe that the health sector is where ai can realize its greatest potential. and that this is indeed the case is evidenced by recent research showing that ai algorithms identify breast cancer with approximately 90 percent accuracy when combined with radiology analysis. in the circumstances in which we have made the fight against cancer our priority, i call on the european institutions to continue to strongly support the development of artificial intelligence, as it provides the possibility of early diagnosis of malignant diseases and thus gives hope to patients for their successful cure.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our society is facing many environmental challenges, such as the depletion of natural resources and climate change. the negative consequences of uncontrolled business in the form of environmental incidents are increasingly calling for more effective control of business in the private sector. in seeking to reduce its environmental impact, each company should pursue a combined approach that takes into account the direct and indirect economic, social, health and environmental consequences of its decisions and activities. however, it should be noted that the companies cannot be held fully responsible. the commission has also identified a number of areas where the environmental impact of the use of energy is likely to be significant. this prevents a level playing field in the internal market. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the application of this regulation. we need to be focused on preventing harm by strengthening the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle, creating a level playing field for businesses and ensuring that taxpayers do not bear the cost to the environment. in this respect, the main objective should be to achieve a balance between environmental and business interests. by administrative measures and fines, we can encourage companies to act with due care and their overall corporate social responsibility, and in this way leave a cleaner environment and a safer planet for future generations.
mr. chairman, the idea of the aarhus convention is the right of the people to be consulted and to participate in environmental issues. croatian citizens are only asked pro forma, and the main word about the projects is run by the renegade mafia. just these days, colleagues, the tender for the lučino razdolje waste management center was cancelled. the estimated value is 246 million kuna. the bids totaled 719, 711, 668 million kuna, or three times the original estimated value. the bidding is off, but the bidders will be back with only a slightly reduced price. the overpayment is accompanied by many other projects so we have the center babina gora, the center biljana donje, the center bikarac that are multiple overpaid. in these and many other projects, money from european funds is being misappropriated, projects are being built that will not work, utility bills are being massively increased, water, air and soil are being polluted. none of this would have been possible if the european agency jaspers had not verified these projects, no matter how overpaid, incompetent, low-quality and oversized they were. it's time for the commission to decide whether the purpose of eu funds is to build functional projects for citizens or to subsidize the junk mafia and its associated political class.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can rightly say that the european union is the world leader in the protection of personal data. the general data protection regulation guarantees our citizens the security of their data when it is processed. the regulation also provides for the possibility of data transfers with third countries on the basis of an adequacy decision, which is the subject of today's debate. in order to ensure the security of the exchange of personal data, the united kingdom should be able to request the commission to adopt a decision on adequacy in accordance with article 5 of regulation (eu) no 909/2014. this decision-making process does not involve the european parliament, but that does not mean that we as elected representatives of the citizens should be excluded from the whole process. i therefore welcome today's debate and ask that the european commission take this decision and use all available mechanisms to ensure that the personal data of our citizens are also treated in the united kingdom in accordance with the highest standards of legal protection. the united kingdom's legacy of membership is its experience in applying european rules on the protection of personal data. however, i strongly urge the european commission not to hesitate to revoke or suspend an adequacy decision if it is shown that the united kingdom no longer ensures an adequate level of protection of the personal data of our citizens. there must be no exceptions or special omissions. we in the european parliament will continue to monitor on an ongoing basis the trends in the protection of personal data in third countries, including the united kingdom.
mr. chairman, croatian farmers often have problems with the cold. however, the much bigger problem is the interest groups that have been shaping croatian agricultural policy for decades. the aim of these interest groups is to strengthen a few of the largest producers, while leaving little or nothing to a large number of small producers, i.e. feudalization. in croatia, the karst goes all the way from samobor to konoval, and this is an area larger than slavonia and represents a great wealth for the development of agriculture, and that is extensive and ecological which is the future. agroforestry is a systematic land use and management in which trees or shrubs are grown around or between crops or pastures, i.e. it is the combination of trees with crops and pastures. and while in other countries of europe with karst and karst pastures, the moss are in the mediterranean, it is normal for cattle to graze in forests, among trees or in bushes, in croatia this way of production is suppressed. same union, different rules. the same common agricultural policy, different practices. others can, croats cannot. in addition to the decent policy of the government, the responsibility lies with croatian forests, a state-owned company that manages land and forest land and obstructs croatian farmers. we need a change of policy in this sector, and fast.
mr. chairman, the true state of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial freedoms in croatia is unfortunately best seen in the wood processing sector. when you have a plain in your space, you live off that fertile plain. when you have the sea, you live off the sea, but when you have the forest in space, they don't let you live off the forest. the timber industry has been taken over by a party-cracy that operates on the principle of feeding the likes and the seemingly unlike, or all the rest. never before has a forest been cut down in croatia, especially illegally, and never before has it been harder to get the raw materials. instead of developing entrepreneurship, processing and design, the goal is to export bare raw materials. you can have a contract to buy the raw materials as an entrepreneur, but that doesn't mean you're actually going to get it. you can sue, but by the time the trial is over, you'll be gone because without wood, you simply can't do business. this scandalous policy destroys competition, stifles entrepreneurial freedom and, most importantly, instead of sustainable forest management, we have the devastation of life, the devastation of rural space, the devastation of plant, animal, economic and ultimately human life.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have worked very hard on this dossier. once again this year we have identified a number of points which we believe distort competition. every year we do the same job. i wonder how many of the points we have identified in the reports of the past few years have been implemented, have been evaluated by the commission. the commission, before we embark on this task, should not give us an account of how it has used the work of the previous year? i did a study and i saw that, for example, in the 2017 study, the commission analyzed only a few, two or three out of 181 that we had identified. and i think the first point of distortion of competition, commissioner, is the difference in taxation between member states, the use that some member states make of tax policies to take advantage of them. i left from naples, my hometown in southern italy, and stopped to make diesel and paid 1.7 euros for it. i then stopped in luxembourg and paid eur 1.1 for diesel, because luxembourg uses tax incentives to attract investment, to attract consumers, and of course the same thing happens in other countries of the union. this is the real anomaly, the real distortion of competition, together with the placid acceptance of the boycott. we have tried on several occasions to include in this report the absolute condemnation of the boycott of products from a geographical area simply because they come from that geographical area. we have not succeeded because of the obstructionism of the leftist forces among the shadow speakers. yet this is another factor which, for example in italy, has distorted competition, producing irreversible damage to firms which have been discriminated against simply because they come from a geographical area. we shall therefore be working on the same report next year, and we expect a sharp reversal on your part, commissioner, because you are acting and analysing and assessing what we, the sovereign parliament, have identified as a priority.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, johan van overtveldt, and the shadow rapporteurs, for the excellent cooperation we have had. competition policies are one of the main competencies of the european union, and as a socialist i am very glad that today we are debating a report that takes into account that competition rules are not only about regulating to ensure fair conditions, but also about the role they play in the achievement of the digital and the environmental transitions. competition is not only about low prices, it’s about quality and innovation of products and of production chains. these are crucial elements if we want to reach the goals of the green deal. and we have to reach these goals, because they are not just a ‘nice to have’, they are a must! therefore, i want to underline once more how important it is not only to foster innovation through competition but also for member states not to distort this phenomenon. even each justified state aid must be in line with the green deal, with the sustainable development goals and our pillar of social rights. this report also takes into account that loopholes in the existing legislation exist when it comes to the digital markets. while we are all aware that data is a source of considerable economic power and leverage, often procedures – especially in the antitrust field – are way too slow to keep up with fast—developing business models in the digital markets and also because ex ante interventions are so far forbidden. meanwhile, the european union is watching gatekeepers become ever more powerful – the recent data scandals show us the necessity to act: for example, the facebook—whatsapp merger, where facebook lied about its technical abilities on using data from whatsapp for personalised adds on facebook. in fact, one could also call the unwillingness of the ceos of the gafas (google, amazon, facebook, apple) to appear in front of this parliament as the next scandal. the upcoming dma (digital market act) is thus a very good opportunity, which must be used to complement competition policies. nevertheless, there is also room for improvement when it comes to antitrust and merger procedures, and lastly also to the sanction mechanisms – a conclusion that has already been drawn many times before in this annual report, and where the commission finally must act. allow me at the end to underline that the european commission needs to continue actively monitoring and removing unjustified geo—blocking, and as an mep from luxembourg, a small member state, i also call on the commission in view of a fully functioning single market to address the anti—competitive effects of the so—called territorial supply constraints.
for the greens/efa group madam president, dear commissioner vestager, dear colleagues, 2020 will not be a year of crisis for everyone. for some companies, it is even a memorable and terrible year: 2020 is the year of records in terms of state aid. in france, 100% of large enterprises have received exceptional public aid, without any ecological or social conditions. as our smes and small businesses struggle to survive, 26 of our 40 national champions pay €51 billion in dividends to their shareholders, 22% more than last year: the french budget equivalent of national education or the staff costs of public hospitals. for bruno le maire, the french finance minister, it is in times of crisis that we should take advantage of the state's money. in saying this, he was not addressing the exploding numbers of people seeking food aid, or the desperate students, or the burned-out carers, or the nine million poor people in france. he was talking to the big bosses, and they got the message. crisis or not, the economy, for them, is all about moving wealth from the taxpayer's pocket to the shareholder's. and this without compensation, without leakage, but with concentration of wealth, with layoffs, with tax evasion and opacity, with denial of the climate emergency. ladies and gentlemen, without the conditionality associated with state aid, the world after will be very much like the world before, and worse, and we do not accept that. too many harmful consequences will follow. this is serious.
madam president, three spanish prime ministers and more than 20 ministers sit on the boards of the big utility corporations, cashing millionaire rewards from the very same companies their governments had privatised and set the market rules for. it is hardly a surprise or a coincidence that a recent commission report warns that spain is the european champion of market barriers in electricity and that consumers there pay the top rates across the eu. the upcoming allocation of recovery funds with smes’ limited capabilities to submit large projects will only increase market distortions. these funds must not be a free lunch for oligopolies to wipe out smaller competitors. but in spain, the large ibex 35 corporations stand ready to swallow the lion’s portion of the recovery funds. endesa wants 23 billion, naturgy wants 14 billion, enagás more than six billion. unless you, the commission, are much more vigilant than you have been up to now, european taxpayers will soon be directly filling crony capitalism and revolving doors in spain. and let me just mention that we are very happy to be back in strasbourg and walking free in the french republic.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me flag you clearly that i was available here from the beginning of the session, even before commissioner vestager spoke, and we continuously got the signal that we were connected. so i don’t know what’s happening, but i find this really outrageous and i would like to ask you to check on your side how this is possible. madam president, vice-president, commissioner vestager, colleagues, we’ve reached the point where the biggest crisis in decades is gradually coming under control – although ‘control’ has to be treated with care in this context. the vaccination campaign is key to recovery. i remain convinced that the eu has missed opportunities and has lost time. we will continue to carry this backlog in the recovery phase, and i hope that lessons will be learned from this. in that recovery phase lies another challenge for the european institutions. the resources from the recovery fund must achieve their purpose. there is no place for inefficiencies, for irregularities, for illegal use. but the recovery does not only depend on additional resources. the way the eu organises itself and prepares itself for the future will be equally decisive. innovation and competitiveness will be important drivers. that was already the case pre-corona, and it is of course now also the case. the present report highlights some important elements related to our competitive environment, our growth potential and our relationship with major international players. we are also confronted with digital powers that know no territory or borders. free and fair competition is crucial to drive innovation and growth and give consumers more choices, lower prices and better quality. we call for strict and impartial enforcement of eu competition rules. but these rules must also be updated concerning, of course, the digital age. recently, the debate has focused very much on the digitax, and yes, everybody agrees that the internet giants also have to make a fair contribution to tax receipts. that is important. but the big challenge in our relationship with these players lies elsewhere. the big tech companies are well organised enough to absorb and/or pass on those digital taxes to users and consumers. the real challenge we face is the monopoly of these companies. after all, a digitax does not change that situation. it smothers smaller, innovative companies – they do not even get the chance to grow, with all the associated consequences in terms of innovation, growth and even employment. this report examines the role of these digital players in more detail, and the relationship with governments and consumers. it welcomes the commission’s determination to address unfair terms and practices of platforms acting as gatekeepers and eliminate illegitimate obstacles to online competition in the european digital single market. however, the slowness of anti-trust investigations mismatches fast-moving digital markets. the report is particularly critical of the commission’s handling of the google search bias case, as well as the takeover of the whatsapp messenger service by facebook. structural unbundling of big tech monopolies may be desirable for restoring competition in digital markets, given the limits of fines and the failure of past behavioural remedies in certain anti-trust cases. the report calls on the commission to review its merger and acquisition rules when it comes to asserting personal data. in summary, we ask the commission to monitor the evolutions in the digital market with persistence, efficiency and the appropriate speed. the report is, of course, not limited to the digital market. at the tail-end of the covid crisis are important challenges on the road to efficient recovery. in that regard, we welcome the adoption of the temporary framework for state aid measures established in response to the unprecedented covid—19 crisis. we call on the commission to be sure and monitor the proper use and distribution of the different eu funding measures in response to the covid-19 crisis, which should be in accordance with eu competition and state aid rules. we are in need of a post covid-19 roadmap for better-targeted state aid in order to promote competitiveness and safeguard jobs. we also urge the commission to pay attention to the role of the foreign-based state-owned enterprises that are supported and subsidised by their governments in ways that the eu single market rules prohibit for eu entities. there has to be some serious concern about distortive state-funded competition from foreign undertakings acquiring european undertakings. last but not least, the report calls for reflection on possible distortions of competition arising from the european central bank’s corporate bonds purchases. we’re at an absolutely historical point for our economies, for the welfare of our citizens. do we succeed in bringing about a sustained and healthy recovery? appropriate monetary and budgetary policies are much needed, but so is also a robust competition policy. let us avoid the historic mistake made by the american president, franklin roosevelt, in his new deal. roosevelt’s national industrial recovery act (nira) of 1933 contained many solid, constructive and much-needed measures, but this nira also limited competition, allowed cartels, allowed collusion and even stimulated price fixing. a lot of research has gone into nira and the results are unequivocal. the results of these anti-competitive measures were a substantial rise in inflation, a reduction of growth by at least 25%, and substantially less job creation. let us avoid these kinds of mistakes. let us take robust competition policy and its implementation very seriously.
thank you very much mr van overtveldt, and my apologies. i was not aware of any problems in connection and i will definitely report the case. thank you very much. we continue with the debate.
madam president, last friday the commissioner announced she has opened a formal antitrust investigation into facebook in cooperation with the uk competition and markets authority, and the claim is that facebook has constructed an unfair advantage on the online advertising sector. this goes under the heading: better late than never. today we will discuss the annual competition policy report looking back at 2020, and over a year ago we adopted a report with similar parts, in which a vast majority of parliament called on the commissioner to propose legislation restricting facebook’s main revenue stream: digital advertising. for years, the market share of facebook and google have increased at an exponential rate, and today we are facing a duopoly. so parliament cannot but repeat itself that there is a significant problem insufficiently tackled. i am glad that the commission has put forward legislation that will address part of the market dominance of some giants, but as shadow rapporteur on the digital market tax i have to express my great concern. market definition is still the same; neither the digital markets act nor the digital services act will change the digital advertising market fundamentally, and interoperability measures for core services are missing. so in short, the motto – if you choose to accept it, commissioner – is: let’s move fast and break monopoly power.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the liberal ideology which inspired the european treaties, competition has always been the sole objective. slaves to the theory that competition will endlessly optimize creativity and performance, you have built a world in which all economic actors are expected to be constantly vigilant and efficient. this race for profitability, which has sacrificed millions of jobs, has been an inhumane and stupid system that has allowed big business, through globalization, through offshoring, to escape the control of their states and to abuse their rules in countries where there are none. you are beginning to take stock of this disaster and are proposing a reform of public aid which will finally promote european research and projects, particularly in the digital field, whereas yesterday you refused this voluntarism on the grounds that it was not fair to non-european countries. our group has always denounced unfair competition and its ravages. the corrective measures introduced by the european union are not enough. it is a real ideological break that must be made, by returning to intelligent protectionism, by introducing national preference in certain public procurement, by reviving growth through investment. this project must be one of reason and social peace, as opposed to the permanent conflict of competition. we've been right for 30 years. it's time to move on and trust each other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i am pleased and i commend the rapporteur's work in emphasising competitiveness in addition to state aid, even though i have myself experienced this as a "sitochrome" in the left-wing dictionary in many debates. competitiveness is the key to the future if we don't want to fall behind the us and asia. that is why i also agree that the transitional state aid rules should be in place until the european economy recovers. what i regret is that the report presents a left-wing narrative on taxation. while the text recognises that tax policy is a competence of the member states, it targets countries that support tax cuts. let us do everything we can to ensure that no one, not even the most, is able to avoid paying taxes, but let us also recognise that fair tax competition contributes to increasing competitiveness by encouraging companies to remain in the union. i am proud to say that hungary is one of the best examples of how to increase state revenues, achieve economic growth above the eu average and reduce unemployment through tax cuts. it should be understood that internal competitiveness also increases the eu's competitiveness.
madam president, (inaudible) triggered by the covid—19 pandemic has been especially severe for enterprises, mostly smes, in tourism, hospitality and culture, not least those based in eu island regions. determination of major transport connections and interruption of ongoing business relations cannot be brought back to their original base overnight. state aid is crucial, but needs time to work effectively. some would like a so—called return to normal on economic regulation, and for this to happen as soon as possible. but this has no real—life logic to back it, only dogma. the idea that the re—application of state aid rules must follow the same tempo as the epidemiological situation is absurd. the two follow different time clocks. rather, the exceptional measures adopted under the temporary framework for the hospitality and culture sectors as affected by the covid—19 crisis must be maintained, no matter what the received wisdom about competition and what the rules say. yes, the lessons of the 2008 financial crisis must be kept in mind, but they cannot be taken as the be—all—and—end all compass by which to navigate today’s storm. otherwise, we risk the collapse of major sectors of activity, like tourism and culture.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european project is deeply linked to the existence of fair and genuine competition. without common rules and standards, trust in the european institutions risks declining further. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. at the same time, the facilities provided must enable private initiatives with a low degree of digitalisation to meet the new challenges. unfortunately, statistics show that only certain european countries were able to support companies, generating a significant destabilisation of the internal market. most of the state aid facilitated by the new european rules was provided by a few member states, leading to unequal competition. the european commission must ensure that this does not disrupt the market and identify new mechanisms to enable companies in less developed countries to access finance.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you, and first and foremost i would like to thank the rapporteur for his words. i think it was really important that johan came on board to give us this overview, because i think it shows the debates that the rapporteurs and the shadows had engaged in during this work. i was especially struck by the last sentences: not to repeat historical mistakes, to make sure that when we recover we use the drivers of fair competition to help us recover, that we do not shy away and basically let the bigger ones get most of the recovery. the words on the temporary framework: i do understand why that creates a lot of debate, but looking forward – also reflecting on some of the last remarks – i think it’s really important that we are cautious not to create a cliff—edge. the temporary framework is set to stop by the end of this year, but we already now are sharing with member states the different things that can be done for the sectors which are really, really challenged – tourism, culture, mobility, hospitality – for instance, to create a fund where a state guarantee crowds in private investment in order to enable capital for the businesses where capital has been completely depleted. that is the thing to do. and just this week, we sent a number of questions to member states to get their insight as to what is needed in order to make sure that we make the most of the support that was already given. one feature that i will mention here is the feature that you can actually transfer what was given as a loan into a grant in order not to nullify all the efforts done to make businesses survive this crisis when the states asked them to close the door – because this is so different from any other normal crisis; this is a situation where the states, because of the health situation, asked businesses to close their doors. here i think it is fully legitimate for the states, for us as taxpayers, to step in, to make sure that they have a fair chance of coming back, doing the best they can and serve us and be available for the green and the digital transition. on exactly that question, what a state does must be in accordance with the legislation, but taking direct commitments on social affairs or green, that has to be really considered. and this is why, as of today, we have launched a consultation on the climate, energy and environmental aid guidelines. where and how do we in the best possible way enable the transition while still maintaining the drivers of fair competition? and one of the questions asked initially sheds light on one of the things i’m aware of on a very daily basis: competition law enforcement is a strong instrument, but we are not alone in the world. on the contrary, we need a lot of other things to happen at the same time for businesses, for customers, for consumers, to meet a fair and level playing field. there may be a number of single market issues, and here now we have the single market enforcement task force, where member states and the commission come together to make sure that the barriers that have been rising here, there, left, centre, that they have been taken down, because this is basically what we need. we need to do this together to make sure that we make the best of the competitive drivers while at the same time transitioning our economy. and as several of you have mentioned, this work sometimes seems slower than how the market is driving us. but it is still, i think, really important to accept that we cannot compromise on the quality of our work. we cannot compromise on due process because we live in a union based on the rule of law. and this is why vigorous competition law enforcement, the regulation that you’re now looking at: that combination will be of the essence. i want to thank you very much, and looking at the different recommendations of this year’s report, i hope that, if nothing else, then last year you will say that i have lived up to the recommendation that we are encouraged to continue the structured dialogue, the really close working relationship between us and the european parliament, because that support is crucial, and it is for your voters, for the european citizens, to feel that they deserve affordable goods, innovative products, choice and quality delivered from the marketplace.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. competition policy is an important tool for strengthening the single market. fair competition also ensures strong consumer protection. in recent years, however, both businesses and consumers have experienced the digital transformation of the economy. these developments have created gaps in traditional competition policy and the antitrust model has been too slow to respond to these changes. i therefore welcome the european commission's focus on modernising our competition policy to meet the challenges of the digital sector. i was the author of the opinion on competition policy in the committee on the internal market, which focused on the role of 'gateway' platforms. in particular, when it comes to e-commerce, for example, the dominance of a few platforms has serious consequences for consumer choice and market access for many european businesses. the european union needs to adapt its competition instruments to recent and future market developments, and to this end, parliament has started negotiations on a digital market legislation setting out the obligations and prohibitions that content controllers must comply with in their daily work.
in writing. the past year has been a challenge in all areas of our lives. the economy is in deep trouble, and our job is to make sure that the recovery is as cost-effective as possible. this report highlights our competitive and development potential for growth. the digital environment is not geographically limited, which means that our understanding of the sector needs to be updated independently, especially with regard to large technology companies. if we want to preserve our independence and the rules of fair competition, we must take account of what is said in this report.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by ms monika vana on the gender dimension in cohesion policy (2020/2040 (ini)) (a9-0154/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, i am very glad to have the opportunity to present this report on the gender dimension in cohesion policy, which comes at a very timely moment. i would first like to take this opportunity to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, including you, chair, for the work and the good cooperation on this report. the principle of gender equality is a core value of the european union, applicable to all eu activities and policies. among the eu policy instruments, cohesion policy is an especially impactful tool and, by the way, a large part of the eu budget. at the next plenary, the common provisions regulation (cpr) is expected to be adopted, the overarching regulation for cohesion policy funds. the cpr will already include gender equality as a horizontal principle. this report on the gender dimension in cohesion policy is based on a study for the committee on regional development (regi) on gender equality and cohesion policy for the previous funding period, and includes areas for improvement in the upcoming period. regarding the negotiations on the report, i want to say that, while there was unanimous agreement that the topic is of crucial importance for regi and for the whole european parliament, there were very big differences in approach and aims and how best to achieve them among the groups. but i think that, with this report, we have now managed to strike a balance between the views of the different groups. most importantly, we were able to formulate a strong position of the european parliament and to give concrete recommendations for improvements in this upcoming cohesion fund period. let me mention some of the most important points. the report emphasises the importance of a coordinated governance framework on gender equality, national guidelines and technical support. it highlights the partnership principle and the cooperation between the eu level and the national, local and regional levels. the report stresses that all programmes in cohesion policy should ensure gender equality throughout their preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. in this report, we stress the need for a gender equality strategy with clear objectives and targets at national and regional level as ex—ante requirements, and we call for ex—ante and ex—post gender impact assessment. we stress that measurable indicators, where appropriate, should also enable the support of gender equality to be monitored. furthermore, the report highlights gender budgeting and the closing of the gender data gap. as i mentioned, the partnership principle is very important. we mention training and capacity building of managing authorities, guidance documents and the role of the european institute for gender equality. very important in this report is also the call on the commission that member states and their respective authorities should follow the principles of the rule of law, including the principle of non-discrimination. last, but not least, we recognise in this report the burden placed on women as principal caregivers in formal and informal settings, as well as their social value, especially during the covid—19 crisis, and the rise of domestic violence and the need for projects and more fight against domestic and other kinds of gender—based violence. we know, of course, that this report is only a starting point to improve gender equality in cohesion policy, and we still have a lot of work ahead of us. let’s work together on that. we are very happy that the commission is present today. finally, i want to ask the commission, after the final vote of the parliament tomorrow, to take note of the position of the european parliament and to really make gender equality a cornerstone of eu cohesion policy, to go beyond words and to strengthen gender equality in practice.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is an honour to address you today on behalf of my fellow commissioner ferreira. one of the saddest features of crisis – and the current one is no exception – is the aggravation of old inequalities. we see this at this regional level; we see this at the social level; and we see it in terms of gender. on two key front lines in this battle, the home front and the health care front, women have borne the brunt of the battle, because they are the majority of home workers and they are the majority of health care workers. from childcare to layoffs, from health risks to domestic violence, women have struggled and women have suffered. in terms of gender equality, hard fought gains – the work of decades – risk being rolled back. so this report is very timely and i thank the regional development committee (regi) and the rapporteur, ms monika vana, for their excellent report, and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) for their opinion. as the report notes, cohesion policy plays a crucial role in gender equality. it plays a crucial role in two critical ways. first, by cohesion investments, we invest in better quality childcare and we promote access to that childcare. we invest in support for female entrepreneurs, female researchers and female innovators. we ensure equal access to upskilling and training, and we invest in other services from public transport to it, to health care, education and other social services – essential services, which are particularly crucial for women. zooming out from these targeted actions, these investments will help ensure that women participate equally in the green and digital transitions. secondly, we support gender equality by our process. gender equality is a crosscutting principle for all cohesion policy investments. you are right, gender equality is not a competing objective, but a shared goal. it must be taken into account at every step, from the preparation of programmes to project selection and implementation, to programme monitoring and evaluation. and bodies fighting for fundamental rights, for non-discrimination and for women, are key partners at each step of the process. so by investment and a comprehensive process, we support gender equality. but we agree with the report’s recommendation that more must be done. already, in the new programme starting this year, we are reinforcing requirements. first, it is now a precondition of funding, what we call an enabling condition, that projects respect the eu charter of fundamental rights, including the requirement on gender equality. second, there is now a system for tracking gender-related expenditure across cohesion policy funding, and this will allow for better monitoring of gender equality in our investments. the report also points to a lack of knowledge among stakeholders, and the commission continues to build capacity in this area. we organised technical seminars with managing authorities, and we communicate with stakeholders on concrete actions they can take to promote gender equality. so the commission is providing a comprehensive framework to promote gender equality in cohesion policy. but eu funding alone cannot do everything for gender equality and i call on member states to make the maximum use of every element of this framework. we in the commission will continue to support member states: where a lack of capacity is a bottleneck, technical assistance is at their disposal. we will continue to do everything we can and to consult with this parliament and work together in this crucial area. i assure you of our commitment in programme preparation and beyond. we cannot allow women to be left behind in the recovery. we cannot lose a decade or more of hard-won gains in terms of equality, and we will not if we work together.
the examination of this point is concluded. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the report (a9-0179/2021) by mr césar luena, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the 'eu biodiversity strategy for 2030' and 'returning nature to our lives' (2020/2273 (ini)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the excessive deficit. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, biodiversity loss is one of the greatest challenges of our time. i therefore welcome and applaud the high level of ambition expressed in the objectives and targets set out in the biodiversity strategy and which my colleague, mr césar luena, has accompanied in his report. an ambition that seeks to awaken political action that is truly transformative and generates a path to greater sustainability. agriculture, of course, as a natural resource management activity, is deeply intertwined with biodiversity, anchoring its productivity and resilience in it. it must therefore be at the forefront of concrete and effective actions to protect biodiversity, which are also fair and equitable and do not underestimate its social dimension. the effort to promote biodiversity is an effort of all. it must be possible to count on the effective participation of the whole of society, and in particular of those who work the land, and who must also be able to share their knowledge and experience in order to create a sense of true ownership of this path. the commission's proposal is based on the premise that this will be vital to the effective success of this strategy.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, mr luena, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and the entire committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but also the committees for opinion – the committee on international trade, the committee on agriculture and rural development, the committee on fisheries and the committee on foreign affairs – for their engagement and in—depth work on this very important report. biodiversity is truly a cross—cutting issue and we can only succeed in reversing its decline if we have all the relevant actors on board. i therefore appreciate the broad and honest debate in this house, as well as your spirit of compromise, which has allowed for large support for the draft resolution you have tabled for this plenary. when the commission published the eu biodiversity strategy in may last year, it drew on a clear scientific evidence. healthy nature shapes the environment and the climate in which humanity can thrive. science is telling us that biodiversity, the unique fabric of life on the earth, is under intolerable strain. decades of unsustainable human activities have changed our climate, altered ecosystems, polluted our environment, over—exploited species and caused the spread of invasive alien species. if we continue down this path, we risk irreparable damage to the foundations of our well—being and prosperity. let us not forget that almost half of global gdp, some eur 40 trillion, depends on nature. we would undermine our chances of coping with climate change. we would even expose our children to an existential risk. we have no alternative, no excuse, and indeed very little time. but we must seize the moment and bring radical changes in the way we produce, consume and trade. looking back on the first year of implementing the biodiversity strategy and the impressive list of deliverables, i can see a lot has been done but we still have so much more to do. we are making progress on the implementation of 100+ actions which we committed to deliver by 2030. the commission has drafted guidance and engaged with national authorities and stakeholders in the design of measures to implement the eu biodiversity commitments. we have made progress in preparing new legislation underpinned by in—depth impact assessment, as well as new policy strategies on a range of topics from nature restoration to forests and soil. we’re working with member states to ensure that biodiversity will be high on the list of national priorities when funding and investment decisions are made under eu long—term budget, in particular under common agricultural policy funds, as well as in the national recovery and resilience plans. the process for preparing the post—2020 global biodiversity framework at the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in china is also gathering speed. the eu has positioned itself as the global leader. we now have to leverage this position and build a coalition for a global biodiversity framework that can achieve the vision of living in harmony with nature, in tandem with the world’s efforts to tackle climate change. it is important that we all recognise that this is an agenda of common interest with no feasible alternative. we know what needs to be done to put the eu and global biodiversity on the path to recovery. and we have a unique opportunity to steer a fair transition and create multiple wins in the post—covid—19 recovery. this is our chance to demonstrate that effective protection, restoration and mainstreaming of biodiversity throughout all sectors is possible and brings tangible benefits to all. as regards the external angle, sustainability is a central pillar in the trade policy review communication of the commission of february 2021. it aims to further enhance the contribution of trade in achieving the objectives of the european green deal, while of course respecting our international obligations. the road ahead will not always be straight and it certainly won’t be easy, but there are plenty of reasons to be optimistic. with the european green deal we have new political momentum. the ambition of the biodiversity strategy was endorsed by the council, and i very much look forward to seeing also the european parliament’s resolution adopted. i hope its encouraging ambition can be maintained. your strong support, your proposals and your continued involvement in the implementation of our strategy will be essential for the success of our efforts in the eu and around the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. mr president, commissioner, a resounding, loud and clear yes to a biodiversity strategy, but a not equally resounding, loud and clear no to a strategy which not only does not take account of farmers and fishermen, but goes further and points to them as the cause of all evil. any strategy should involve the sectors which are critical to providing food for an ever-growing population and take account, in addition to environmental aspects, of economic and social aspects. we cannot accept that the finger of blame should be pointed at a sector such as fishing or certain of its arts, while ignoring many other activities which are infinitely more harmful to ecosystems and biodiversity. when we regulate we have to be fair and equitable and use arguments based on rigorous scientific studies because if we don't do that, you know what it leads to? we are losing credibility, we are being criticised for setting unattainable standards and, what is even worse, the citizens whom we represent in this parliament see us as increasingly distant from reality.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner, thank you for presenting this strategy, and thank you very much, mr césar, for the work you have led in this parliament. i would ask you today to support the report which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment and to vote against the amendments tabled in the plenary, because in the committee on the environment we have worked in an ambitious, balanced and consensual process. it's an ambitious process because we want to avoid another failure. we want to avoid, as happened with the strategy presented in 2011, failing to achieve any of the objectives. from 2011 to this moment we can speak of a story of failure. we are losing more species every day, and we are degrading more valuable ecosystems. and we're not talking about rare and endangered species, we're talking about pollinators, wild butterflies, birds, grasslands. that's getting worse by the day. and so, in order that this is not a failure, this strategy speaks of clear protection principles: 30% on land and sea surface; 10% strict protection. but it also says that it must be binding, because it must be fulfilled. and in order to be able to act in this direction, we must speak - of course we must - about agriculture, forestry and european forests, which are not just a collection of trees, but a precious ecosystem which must be maintained and which must be within european competence. in short, the cost of inaction is immense. it's our life. it's our health. if ecosystems collapse, our system collapses as well.
mr. chairman, today, it's going to be hard to find a beach, a forest, a meadow, even a mountain top without a piece of trash. the waste is, unfortunately, found in caves and pits a mile deep and on the bottom of a sea that is increasingly looking like a dump. the worst of all is plastic, which is hard to break down. in the environment, it shrinks to smaller and smaller pieces of microplastics, and then smaller and smaller pieces of nanoplastics, which enter all the pores of life. we're literally drinking and eating plastic and it's contaminating all life on earth. the biggest blow to biodiversity in recent times is certainly the covid crisis waste, and i'm talking about masks first and foremost. we're talking about trillions and trillions, so thousands and thousands of billions of masks that have been used in this crisis. a lot of them will end up in the neighborhood. it's destroying life in the sea, but also on land. scientific research shows that just one mask a day can release several hundred thousand plastic micro-fibers that further contaminate everything around them. these are, unfortunately, the terrible consequences of the wrong policies in the covid crisis based more on the cult of opinion and dogma than on real science and scientific support for research.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the competitiveness of our companies and the protection of consumers depend heavily on the ability of the authorities to react to infringements of intellectual property rights and the marketing of counterfeit goods. moreover, customs fraud drains public funds and, given its transnational nature, requires close cooperation between the administrations of the member states. we therefore support the initiative to allocate financial resources for the purchase and use of new and more advanced customs control equipment. the financial instrument to be made available to member states stems from the increasingly urgent need to significantly strengthen controls on goods as they enter the union's borders in order to ensure their safety. these goods must be safe and comply with the same european union regulations that our companies are required to comply with in order to market their products. the intention to support the achievement of an adequate and uniform level in all the countries of the union is also to be welcomed. this will allow the benefits of the customs union to be realised, providing further support to customs authorities in their joint action to protect the interests of the member states and the single market.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, once again let me warmly thank you for organising this important and timely debate on the instrument for financial support for customs control equipment (cce). i have heard some excellent suggestions and comments that the commission will definitely take on board when implementing the instrument. the agreement that was found on this important instrument is excellent news. the cce will play a key role in ensuring greater uniformity and adequacy, and improve results in the performance of customs control at the external borders. the programme will offer a valuable instrument to support the member states in ensuring that customs authorities act as one in protecting the interests of the union. thus, it will contribute to the overall cohesion between member states. i take once again the opportunity to thank parliament for the constructive approach and for the outcome of the negotiations. the commission looks forward to continuing the fruitful cooperation with the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the eu digital covid certificate union citizens (com ((2021) 0130 c9-0104/2021 2021/0068 ((cod)) and the report by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the eu digital covid certificate third-country nationals (com ((2021) 0140 c9-0100/2021 2021/0071 ((cod)).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner reynders, this june marks 42 years since the first direct democratic elections to the european parliament and in december it will be 12 years since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this means that for forty years this european parliament has had no lack of democratic legitimacy and no shortfall in legislative competence. it is a parliament which has been legislating since the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights on competences which were for a long time the competences of the member states, including nothing less than free movement, which is a fundamental right enshrined in the charter, in article 45, and which is the legal basis of this instrument. and yet this parliament, which has no deficit of democratic legitimacy or legislative competence, does have it to be news. he has a serious problem with getting news, and even more, if you will, with getting good news. but it is the case: this parliament is good news on the occasion of a negotiation completed in record time. the commission is taking the initiative to try to repair one of the biggest problems caused by the covid-19 pandemic: the suspension of schengen and free movement in the european union, thus severely restricting the most cherished fundamental right of european citizenship. take the lead at the end of march. the european parliament votes on its negotiating mandate and the urgency procedure at the end of april. and in record time, at the end of may, we completed a mutually acceptable agreement which allows us today, 8 june, to undertake the final vote and hopefully the final push for entry into force on 1 july, which was what it was all about. a positive message to the european citizens: that this parliament is doing everything it can to relaunch free movement in the schengen area and to do so, in addition, by fulfilling its negotiating mandate, preserving the fundamental rights of europeans, in particular the confidentiality of personal data, complying with the european data protection regulation, and respecting the principle of equality and therefore the prohibition of discrimination, which is also enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in its articles 20 and 21; and to do so with guarantees of legal certainty, therefore, offering clarity and legal certainty where at this moment, or until this moment, there has been obscurity, confusion and legal uncertainty as a result of the accumulation of emergency measures imposed unilaterally by the member states in the severe restriction of fundamental rights, among them the right to free movement and therefore the right to the enjoyment of the schengen area. we have also done so by obtaining in the course of the negotiations a response which the european parliament will hopefully find appropriate, in accordance with the overwhelmingly favourable vote it obtained in the committee responsible, which i have the honour of chairing, on two fundamental issues. the first is to restrict, to save in european law the claimed competence of the member states to impose restrictive measures on free movement despite the certificate we are putting into effect and which should come into force on 1 july. we therefore incorporate this claimed competence of the member states into european law by establishing as a european regulation and therefore as a legislative act directly binding on the member states, directly applicable from the moment it enters into force and directly enforceable by the citizens before the courts, the principles of proportionality and necessity in any additional measures which the member states may be obliged to impose in order to safeguard public health, which they must announce 48 hours in advance, and which they must also announce to the public, 24 hours before the entry into force of these restrictive measures, in a clear, timely and complete manner what the restriction will consist of, which they must also justify, explain the scope and, above all, set the date of entry into force of this additional measure and, if necessary, its duration, so that the commission, acting in a centralised manner, can inform the european parliament and the other institutions, which are delegated by this regulation, of their right to scrutinise and reserve the right to scrutinise the legal acts provided for in the commission regulation. this regulation finally allows the uniform certification, in accordance with the principles of integrity, authenticity and veracity of data, that the carrier first option has been vaccinated with one of the vaccines recognised by the european medicines agency, in the emergency use list of the world health organisation, second option has obtained a negative test, either pcr or antigen, with sufficient guarantee of reliability in the last few days, in the last 72 hours, or third option has overcome the disease and therefore has an immunological recovery certificate. these three options will therefore provide legal certainty and non-discrimination with a guarantee of protection of fundamental rights. i would like to congratulate the fact that this legislative act has been completed under a european presidency such as the portuguese presidency, which has done its job of trying to bring positions closer together. but now the member states have to do their job. they are the ones who have to ensure in a credible, law-abiding way the technological infrastructure and the ability to provide the certificates as soon as possible to european citizens so that we can restore the free movement of people and the fully functional schengen that we have missed so much during the covid-19 pandemic.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i must say that it’s a pleasure for me to be here this morning for this debate about the eu digital covid certificate. on 17 march, the commission proposed a european legislative framework covering vaccination, recovery and test certificates. and now, only two and a half months later – a record time – the parliament will be voting on the agreement found with the council. this is the result of a joint commitment by the three institutions to deliver concrete results for eu citizens. with this regulation, every citizen in the european union will have a legal right to receive an eu digital covid certificate whether he or she is vaccinated, tested or recovered. let me use this opportunity to warmly thank the rapporteur, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) chair, juan lópez aguilar, and all the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators of the libe committee, for their efforts and commitment during the successful trilogue negotiations. these were frank and constructive negotiations with a shared objective among all participants. our contacts have been very close throughout the whole process, and i believe that the compromise reflects key points that were essential for the parliament. in particular, the eu digital covid certificate will make it easier for eu citizens to exercise their fundamental right to free movement. the certificate, which will be free of charge, will be issued by all the member states and will have to be accepted across europe. it will contribute to a gradual lifting of restrictions. the eu digital covid certificate will be easily accessible and available to all europeans. moreover, two important principles have been laid down in the text. first, member states will not be able to impose additional travel restrictions on the holders of a eu digital covid certificate, unless such restrictions are necessary and proportionate to safeguard public health. second, where such additional restrictions are imposed on an exceptional basis, for example, because of variants of concern, member states will have to inform the commission and the public in advance. in addition, with the view of reinforcing a coordinated eu approach, the commission has proposed to adapt the council recommendation on the coordination of free movement restrictions in light of this agreement and taking into account these important principles. this will make life easier for citizens. the eu digital covid certificate will help them to move within the eu, be it for work, family or leisure. another important point in our discussion was the affordability of tests. the regulation underlines the importance of universal and affordable tests for all citizens, in particular persons who cross borders on a daily basis. and to support these efforts, the commission has committed to mobilising an additional amount of eur 100 million for tests that qualify for the issuance of eu digital covid test certificate. our discussions have also started an important debate in many member states about the price of tests, and i’m sure that we will see new evolutions in the next weeks about the affordability of the test in the different member states. finally, i would like to make a point on data protection. with its decentralised and offline verification system, the eu digital covid certificate will ensure a very high level of data protection. from the beginning, it was crucial for the commission that the health data of citizens be properly protected. and i believe that the text, further strengthened upon request from the parliament, fully ensures this. ladies and gentlemen, today’s vote is an important milestone. but, for the commission, the work does not end here. together with the member states, we are working day and night to make the eu digital covid certificate a reality on the ground. while the regulation will start to apply from 1 july, we start the roll out already now. the more eu digital covid certificates we can issue in the coming weeks, the more we can avoid problems. we are working hard to ensure a smooth rollout on 1 july. i’m therefore very happy to report that this technical rollout is progressing well. on 1 june, the commission launched the eu gateway, which will host the public keys necessary to verify the certificates, and several member states have already started issuing eu digital covid certificates. more than a million citizens have already received such certificates, and many more will follow in the next weeks and months. looking beyond the eu, the commission is also in contact with third countries to assess the interoperability of their systems with the eu digital covid certificate framework in full compliance with eu data protection rules. in our contacts, we are also promoting the eu certificate as an open and secure international standard. to sum up, with the certificate, citizens will have a practical tool that they can use to travel safely this summer, a tool that they know will be accepted wherever in europe they decide to go. so, i can only encourage you to vote in favour of the agreement found with the council. citizens are counting on us to deliver and with the eu digital covid certificate we show that we are doing so. je voudrais confirmer, monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, que, depuis plus de deux mois maintenant, nous avons travaillé sur les trois pistes. d’abord, le certificat. je tiens encore à remercier les négociateurs du parlement pour la manière avec laquelle nous avons pu aboutir, dans le trilogue, à un accord avec le conseil, et je salue le travail de la présidence portugaise dans le cadre de cette négociation. après votre décision, ce certificat sera effectivement en vigueur au 1er juillet prochain. ensuite, dans le même temps, nous avons travaillé sur les outils techniques – comme je l’ai rappelé –, qui sont déjà en train d’être utilisés aujourd’hui par les états membres. la plateforme européenne est d’application depuis le début de ce mois et, tous les jours, des certificats sont déjà émis dans les états membres. et puis nous continuons à travailler avec la présidence portugaise sur la recommandation pour tenter de coordonner au mieux l’ensemble des règles applicables dans l’usage du certificat. le certificat est un outil, il faut aussi déterminer quel usage on peut faire de ces certificats. et je suis convaincu que, en tout cas pour le 1er juillet au plus tard, mais déjà dans les jours qui viennent, nous aurons un accord sur les différents éléments pour que l’ensemble des citoyens puisse effectivement voyager pour quelque raison que ce soit, de manière beaucoup plus simple, à travers toute l’europe et, je l’espère, progressivement au-delà. je voulais à nouveau vous remercier pour ce travail qui démontre que, quand la volonté politique est là, les trois institutions peuvent trouver des solutions au bénéfice des citoyens.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in recent weeks i have received emails from fully-vaccinated dutch citizens who were held up at the german border because germany does not accept vaccination certificates in dutch. and it’s not about germany or the netherlands, but it was a sneak preview to what could have happened this summer all over the european union – 27 different national systems with different rules, different language requirements, different technology, and only one thing in common: chaos. and this is why the eu needed to show its added value and it did by adopting in record pace a simple, safe and accessible solution to all europeans in the form of a certificate. it will help citizens to prove that they have been vaccinated, that they have recovered, or that they have received a negative test result, but it will also help to facilitate the lifting of restrictions on free movement that we have seen all over europe in the past 14 months. now after several rounds of intense negotiations, the legislation is here now and it was welcomed strongly by europeans everywhere, so it’s now important to continue to build on this positive momentum. and it’s excellent news that already nine member states are using the certificate, but let’s not forget about the other 18. we have to make sure that all member states are ready by 1 july, and we call on the commission to keep the pressure on while also continuing to lend a helping hand where necessary. all citizens in the european union rightfully expect to be able to use this system by the start of summer and member states must deliver, and when we speak about delivering, it is not only about the technical implementation of the certificate, it is about much more than that. european citizens want an end to the patchwork of 27 different rules on testing, self-isolation and quarantining. they want to finally have some coordination and predictability at our internal borders, and they want their fundamental european rights to free movement reinstated. they are looking to the european leaders to make this happen, and we also call on them. let’s not disappoint our citizens this summer. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we have rapidly created the legal framework for european digital certificates. this does not impose any (unintelligible words) restrictions on people with certificates, if the situation allows. an important first step towards the general lifting of restrictions. this is good news for many people in europe. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. the member states are now in charge. you asked for the certificates. it is up to you to use and display them now. this is not a major problem for member states where vaccination data also with data protection already exists digitally. but this is not the case everywhere, and unfortunately my own member state has been through a transitional period of six weeks. now it's time to catch up. the commission will also be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations. the commission has put forward a draft which takes up many of parliament's ideas, such as uniform rules on entry conditions from crisis regions. the council could send a good signal by adopting it quickly: the patchwork was yesterday, the future is shared. the conditions are there. the member states are on the move.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, colleagues, commissioner, absent council, i am very pleased that today we will adopt the digital covid certificate because europeans desperately want to regain their freedom, and i think it’s worthwhile remembering that it isn’t the virus that has taken away their right to free movement in europe. it’s actually the patchwork of national rules that makes it impossible for them to move around. parliament was exceptionally united in its two priorities: first, eliminating the patchwork, and, secondly, making the certificate accessible to all, in particular by making testing free. the certificate will eliminate some obstacles, but to what degree it will reopen europe will all depend on the member states and on their willingness to harmonise their approach and to adopt a common european approach because today they don’t even use the same covid map. let’s not forget that. they’re not even applying the same colour code. they’re just flatly refusing, arguing that it’s a matter of subsidiarity and covid measures are a national competence. well, i am absolutely sure that citizens who are confronted with sudden quarantine obligations, unexpected additional testing requirements and last—minute travel cancellations will just be very happy to know that at least it is in line with subsidiarity because the patchwork is still here, the spaghetti of rules and regulations. national governments, it is in your hands to make sure that people can travel freely. we have done our bit. today we are going to vote on the certificate that is at least going to remove some of the unnecessary obstacles. we have also obtained the additional eur 100 million to ensure that free testing is available for those who need it most. i would like to thank my colleagues for this very united effort, together with the european commission, and i wish everybody a very good summer, and everybody else who has to travel.
as the current president of this plenary session, i would like to say very clearly on behalf of the institution of the european parliament as the house of the citizens of europe that your statements to this house do not correspond to reality, to the facts. we were never close. we have always done our job, and we have been at the forefront of similar institutions in dealing with covid-19 as the world's multinational parliament. we may disagree, but we should never question the role of the european parliament in european democracy or speak untruths about that role.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not the simple idea of bringing back the badly battered freedom of movement - the proud flagship of the european union - in times of corona seems child's play. but far from it! while the european parliament had in mind all the possible interests of citizens - not only those of holidaymakers but also those of commuters - the council was not particularly interested in them. the member states considered the certificate, which can facilitate free movement, to be an infringement of their territorial waters and, as has been the case for a long time, blocked the sea lanes. the member states were of course not prepared to provide free testing to their citizens who were not yet vaccinated or had not recovered. but they are the only guarantee that freedom of movement is equal for all and without discrimination. and so they only reluctantly agreed when the commission relaxed 100 million euros and promised more money to at least make the tests cost-effective. the first interest of the member states seems to be to invest nothing, if possible, but also nothing at all in the unhindered implementation of eu citizens' rights themselves. if we had to decide in 2021 whether to introduce the fundamental right of free movement in the eu, we would have the biggest opponent in the council, and i would be really afraid. the fact that something sensible has come out of the trilogue is entirely due to parliament, with the kind support of the commission.
mr. chairman, for over two centuries, we have been building democracy. we created fundamental freedoms and rights for citizens -- the right to work, the right to freedom of movement, the right to a dignified life, the right to ban human medical research, the right to ban discrimination in health, everything else. we now want the personal information of the citizens. we want to brand people who are healthy. so we want to force healthy people, with these covid passports, to be subjected to medically inadequately tested products. in history, we can recall a large number of medical products that have taken a huge number of lives in the years following their adoption. i'll just name a few. oxycontin, it took tens of thousands of lives. for 12 years, he was promoted by both the industry and the media. dengvaxia, it took countless lives. you can find out for yourself. mortality rate is 0.05%.
mr. president, due to the pandemic lockdown, unprecedented restrictions and severe restrictions on freedom of movement have been holding europeans back for over a year. and those who have spent months locked in their homes, behind screens, and thousands of families in dalmatia, istria and other parts of europe now deserve a normal summer season, a vacation and a life like the one before the pandemic. against the chaos of 27 different rules and quarantines upon returning from a holiday in another country; european certificates, which are not a prerequisite for free movement, but are a prerequisite for the recovery of tourism, a tenth of the european economy. nine countries, like croatia, are ready to implement ahead of schedule. by 1 july, the other member states must be too if we are to have a normal european summer again.
mr president, even though in the last few months we had moments where we doubted if the ratification process of the own resources would happen on time, we can now proudly say to our citizens that the promises have been delivered. here in the parliament, together with the commission and the council and the national parliaments, we all worked together in order to enable the most robust investment budget through the recovery and resilience facility and next generation eu. however, the work has only just started and the reform of the system of own resources is a precondition for the success of the whole concept. we have an even greater responsibility to supervise and scrutinise, and to make sure that money is being spent according to the agreed rules, in order to boost employment, investment, and the digital and green transitions. the enhancement of the own resources system will allow future european financing to be stable and predictable, and it will make us more resilient in the years to come.
in february this year, the european commission adopted a european climate resilience strategy, which rightly notes that climate change has a direct impact on job losses in the fisheries sector. add to this the particularly worrying negative impact that climate change is having on biodiversity and fisheries. i say this as someone who comes from croatia, a maritime country that boasts a centuries-old fishing tradition, and is part of the mediterranean that is particularly vulnerable to climate change today. rising sea temperatures are favouring the emergence of invasive species, and are also having a negative impact on our traditional fisheries by reducing the stock of characteristic species. it directly contributes to the loss of jobs in fisheries and aquaculture. in the adriatic sea 113 invasive species have been recorded, 64 of which have been introduced by human activity. the emergence of 52 species is a consequence of climate change. i would like to mention the emergence of invasive algae of the genus caulerpa whose progressive spread is facilitated by the increase in temperature, which are destroying the biodiversity of the adriatic sea and affecting its economic viability. to protect our fishermen, who are sadly dwindling today, we need to develop a europe that is resilient to climate change. however, the strategy of february lacks concrete proposals on what exactly the european commission plans to do to boost the resilience of fisheries to climate change. in this context, i would like to stress that the european union today has at its disposal an unprecedented regulatory financial instrument that it can use to help the fisheries sector. we must make it clear that this is a sector of strategic importance for the european union, not only in terms of preserving jobs and the economy but also because of the supply of healthy food which is of the utmost importance to us today. we must really help in this regard without delay because the existence of thousands of people depends today on the help of the european union. that is why, here today, on behalf of all the 7,000 croatian fishermen who engage in small-scale coastal fishing, i am asking the european commission to make a concrete commitment to the fight to protect the interests of fishermen and fisheries.
the unprecedented crisis of global proportions since our last session here in strasbourg has dramatically changed europe. now that the pandemic is coming to an end, despite the uncertainties, thanks to vaccination, it is time to draw lessons and prepare europe for the post-pandemic era. yesterday's adoption of the digital covid certificate is a step towards lifting restrictions, freedom of movement and a return to the european way of life. the national recovery plan tables are the foundation for the transformation of the continent in the decade ahead. record investment opportunities are for empowering digital infrastructure, applying artificial intelligence, renovating schools, hospitals and residential buildings, but above all for creating a better environment for smes and those who create added value. our place in the post-pandemic world will depend on our success in adapting to the rapid and unpredictable, and sadly often cruel, era in which we live. now we must put the plans for a new generation of europe into practice.
the european union is a community of independent, equal and sovereign states. in some countries, citizens have chosen the right-wing government or right-wing ideology, in other countries, the left, in third countries, they have chosen the ideology of the center. we here in the rule of law push an ideology. that is absolutely unacceptable. we must limit the rule of law to corruption. corruption prevails in many countries when distributing european funds. however, we must not in any way include ideological views and impose on other countries the views of other countries and other ideologies. we need to go back to corruption and deal with it.
the european institutions and the member states are suffering from a strong, coordinated and continuous cyber attack. yesterday, major media platforms and popular online tools were also experiencing difficulties, causing inconvenience to thousands of users around the world. and it's a reminder once again of how vulnerable we are and how vulnerable our infrastructure is, which can be fatal. modern technology is only useful to us if it's secure and if it's reliable, and that's impossible without significant investment in cybersecurity. today more than ever, the issue of national and european security and sovereignty is also inseparable from the issue of computer security.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate the citizens' initiative end the cage age on collecting 1 400 000 signatures, which has won the right to bring this issue to the house. everyone should care about animal welfare, if not for the animals themselves who are sentient beings, then for the products derived from animals that humans consume. the future of animal husbandry is extensive, and industrial intensive farming is something that is slowly going away. croatia has great conditions and a tradition for extensive animal husbandry. the greatest potential is definitely the 1.6 million acres of grazing land where, say, sheep, goats and cattle can stay all year round. it's more natural and healthier to see animals spend their entire lives out in the open, walking among the bushes and trees, than in a cage. but it's a dream that has a lot of work to do, and the development and settlement of these areas is something that we're still in the early stages of.
dear chair, ladies and gentlemen, after more than a year, europe is finally opening up, restrictions are lifted and national recovery plans are launched. the secondary agenda unfortunately left one of the key political issues of contemporary europe, the migration and asylum system, which showed its weaknesses as early as 2015. the shocking images from spain, as well as many times from greece and other border countries that bear a huge share of the migratory pressures to europe, still show that changes and strengthening of systems are urgently needed. the first positive signals from the council are the hope that we will soon finally approach this issue as it deserves, comprehensively, responsibly and sensibly. we need responsibility, we need solidarity, but above all we need the cooperation of european countries, because a stable and strong europe is only one that has a clear migration and asylum system, and the prerequisite for this is to protect the external borders.
the reporter. dear chairman, dear commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, european public, after almost two years of hard and dedicated work, you have before you a decision that, believe me, will be talked about for years after the vote itself. the resolution on sexual and reproductive health and rights for women is the result of the hard work of my colleagues, colleagues from my country, but also many representatives of the non-profit sector and experts from all over europe and the world. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. thank you very much to all of them. we have produced, i would venture to say, an excellent, modern and balanced text, respecting many compromises but never calling into question the very theme of the resolution: health and the protection of human rights. the praise from almost everyone who's seen the text so far, i'm convinced we've done a good job. the angry, unkind, insulting and disgusting criticisms of others, again give me the right to be satisfied with what i have done. i got hundreds of e-mails and texts and letters, and they even sent me some morbid dolls. in the past days and months, i have even been called hitler by those whose mouths are usually filled with kindness, peace, love and mercy. me, a war veteran and nine-month prisoner of three death camps. my dear ones, you have not impressed me, let alone frightened me. on the contrary. tomorrow, in this house, ladies and gentlemen, we will have the opportunity to publicly demonstrate three very important things: we men, how much we value equality and how much we respect women and their health and human rights; you women, how much you respect yourselves, and all of us together, the europe we want. tomorrow you will make a far-reaching decision for more than 250 million european women. but put that aside for a moment, and if it makes you feel any better, know that you are making an important decision about the level of health protection and basic human rights of your daughter, mother, wife, sister. in this respect, we must not be hypocritical, like our hungarian colleague, who wrote restrictive laws in the afternoon and violently violated them at night. will you take advantage of the many good things this resolution offers to all people in europe, such as: sexual and reproductive health as part of good health; access to safe menstrual products; comprehensive sexual and age-appropriate health education; modern contraceptives as a strategy to achieve gender equality; care for safe and legal abortion based on women's health and rights; access to fertility treatment; care for all pregnant women, mothers and grandmothers; protection of the rights of lgbti people, vulnerable groups, those who have been terrorized for years by backward agendas; provision of sexual and reproductive health and rights services during the covid-19 pandemic and in all other emergency circumstances, and are you willing to do all of this and ignore the exclusive issue of income with an unlikely amount of lies and manipulation? i don't want to waste time and energy explaining to those who don't have the truth and the scientific evidence, but i still have to say a few words about that, too. he's manipulating the facts, so here are just a few answers that are perfectly clear in the text of the resolution. health is a matter for the member states, no one is advocating abortion, and especially no one is advocating it as a method of contraception. the number of abortions is equal in countries where abortion is permitted and where it is forbidden. only in these others they are most often dangerous to the health of the woman. it kills 23,000 women a year worldwide. it is our unwavering position that abortion is an extremely difficult choice for any woman, but in the end, it must always be a choice. no one denies doctors the right to be denied medical care for personal reasons, but the healthcare facility must at the same time provide a doctor who will provide the requested service. and it says it all clearly. only to those who still think that women are second-rate human beings and should remain so, will we ever be able to prove anything. they should still watch where they walk so they don't fall off the edge of the flat earth plate. i dedicate this resolution to my mother and wife, to all the brave women of today and to those who have not yet had the chance to hear what we want to give them as our full and equal citizens of the 21st century, and with special respect to mrs estrela of portugal whose efforts of a decade ago we will not forget. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is a great day for europe and the entire developed world. tomorrow we also decide on the positioning of europe as a community that chooses to live in the 21st or the 17th century. don't let history remember us like these others. i am very proud to put this text to the vote and i firmly believe that it will be voted on, because i believe in europe!
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for the debate. i really welcome parliament’s support, and also the recommendations contained in the resolution. together with our partners, we must continue striving to achieve the goal of three zeros by 2030: zero unmet needs for contraception; zero preventable maternal deaths; and zero gender—based violence and harmful practices. the generation equality forum and its action coalitions, including on fighting gender—based violence, which we are co—leading, will happen next week. it will also provide a unique opportunity to scale up actions at the global level. in terms of following up efforts under gap iii, we will report on the results and impacts of eu funding throughout all key areas of engagement. we will assess the impact of eu action in line with the eu results framework, selected sdgs and other indicators and other reporting commitments. so thank you once again for the opportunity to discuss this issue, which is very close to my heart. the eu will play its full part to support the empowerment of women and girls around the world. (applause)
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this debate which is so important in promoting and defending the values of the union. as i have said, the protection of the rights of women and girls, particularly with regard to sexual and reproductive health and related rights, and respect for the objectives and principles of the nairobi summit remains one of the council's main priorities. and it has been clear in this debate that it is also a priority for the european parliament and the commission. we also agree that this issue has become even more of a priority in the current context of the pandemic in the face of the many challenges posed to the respect of the rights of women and girls, particularly with regard to sexual and reproductive health. it is for this reason, i repeat, that the presidency has been working to achieve council conclusions on a human rights-based post-covid recovery that takes into account the gender dimension, in particular the need to ensure the full enjoyment of human rights by girls and women. we know that 25 years after cairo, there is still a long way to go. we know that almost two years after nairobi, we still have a lot of work to do. but we agree, the three institutions here in this room today. and we know that only together, only by working together, can we achieve these goals and finally find a formula for women to see their rights respected, to see their possibility of living without violence and to achieve true equality. let's work on it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 24 june 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. first of all, the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on some of the goals of the international conference on population and development on the status of women is evident, due to the disorganization of health care. this will have affected women in africa in particular, as access to neonatal care has become more difficult, even though the continent already has the highest maternal mortality rate in the world. improving the status of women involves addressing certain underlying causes, in particular cultural and religious. former president of niger mahamadou issoufou, for example, pointed out the responsibility of a misinterpretation of islam in early marriage, leading to a real population explosion in the country, which has the highest fertility rate in the world, with almost 7 children per woman in 2016. extended schooling for girls would also reduce their vulnerability to hiv, which is one of the major public health challenges in africa and the world. we must therefore address all these elements without taboos or falsehoods.
in writing. the nairobi summit set out new guidelines to achieve the following concrete goals by 2030: eliminate unmet needs in family planning, end preventable maternal death, end violence and other harmful practices against women and girls. we acknowledge the progress made in specific areas, such as the increased availability of contraceptives or the reduction of maternal and newborn mortality. however, efforts and concrete measures are needed to go further than this. we still have a long way to go. in particular, it is necessary to guarantee: the right to sexual and reproductive health, full access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, freedom of choice for women as regards contraceptive methods, more sexuality education, more information campaigns and awareness-raising campaigns for women on their rights in relation to sexual and reproductive health, continuous training of family planning professionals. and of course, we need to strengthen public health services to ensure that these rights are universal. it is time to ensure that these political commitments are made for all women, girls and young people.
in writing. the international conference on population and development (icpd) in cairo committed to achieving the sustainable development goals by 2030 by ending, inter alia, maternal deaths, violence against women and harmful practices against women and girls. unfortunately, the summit was followed by a resolution containing many controversial elements. it frequently uses the term 'sexual and reproductive health and rights', which is not accepted by international consensus and has no legal definition, and is often interpreted as promoting abortion. it should be noted that there is no international right to abortion. and access to abortion, which under no circumstances can be promoted as a method of family planning, as stated in 8.25 of the icpd, is subject to national law. child marriage, female genital mutilation, limited access to education - the focus should be on combating these harmful practices, not promoting the leftist agenda.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by mr mislav kolakušić on the adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality of european union legislation - better regulation report for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 (2020/2262(ini)) (a9-0191/2021).
rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a community of free, sovereign and independent states, created by the will of its citizens to work together, on an equal footing, to improve their states and the living standards of their citizens. these facts should never be forgotten. today, we are often witnessing calls for an unfounded increase in the influence and power of the european institutions, especially those not directly elected by the citizens themselves. there are many areas and areas of competence in which the european commission cannot do better and more effectively than the elected representatives of the national states. any unjustified extension of the union's powers, driven by a desire for more power and influence, is detrimental to democracy and, in the long run, to the very survival of the union. the equality of the member states is its paramount value and the very survival of the european union depends on it. without respect for the right of each country to develop and progress within the european union and without respect for our diversity, our common european project is doomed to fail. the report we are putting before you today, members of the european parliament, deals with two key principles of the functioning of the european union. these are the subsidiarity and proportionality principles, by which we have limited and regulated the limits of the european union's competence and defined when and to what extent the union can and should act and when legislation should be left to the member states. the report also contains a very important appeal to all members of parliament, all member states and the citizens of the european union that the union must change and that the power to propose legislation must be given to citizens and their representatives in the european parliament. that is why, with the support of my colleagues, i have included in this report an amendment calling for a revision of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the introduction of the european parliament's direct right of legislative initiative. the european parliament is the only body of the european union directly elected by its citizens and it represents the authentic will of the citizens of the european union. this report identifies weaknesses in the mechanism for monitoring compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, but also offers solutions. better involvement of national parliaments in the legislative process, providing high-quality and understandable explanations of the needs for new legislative initiatives, providing better access to the preparation of legislative texts and, of course, allowing the european parliament to propose laws on its own. respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, as the foundations of the european union, is a permanent and important obligation of all institutions, because by respecting them, all member states are respected and all citizens of the european union are respected, and they are the founders, the meaning, the purpose of the existence of the european union. the adoption of this report will help to improve the mechanism for monitoring compliance with these principles and to provide citizens with better regulations, which is our fundamental task. thank you to everyone who participated in its creation and i hope we will accept it tomorrow.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear mr timmermans, i am so pleased that we are here today to talk about climate and to decide on this important law. because there was a time when we had, under the guise of, more important topics. it's arguably the most important topic today. the environmental question, of course, has become economic but increasingly moral, what kind of world we're going to live in, what kind of condition we're going to leave this planet in for future generations, whether we're thinking short-term or long-term. that's the theme for today. we are the first generation to feel the effects of climate change on our own skin, but we are also the last generation to have a chance to react. to do that, of course, we need quality projects, clear legislation and money. we have all this, we have all this to do and remember: the future is either green or it's not. for that reason, colleagues, i call on you to support this bill and show that we are brave and responsible.
mr. chairman, today we're talking about a just transition mechanism, but there will be no just transition until the resources and the assets and the power of corporations and the super-rich are limited. citizens must be able to control and co-own energy production. citizens must control and co-own the production of food and seeds and the same is true of water and communications. we have to wrest control from the hands of a handful of corporations and give it back to the citizens, that's democracy. let's decentralize everything we can. the media and social networks should not be the playthings of media moguls, but a service to the citizens. and finally, we restrict assets. we limit our assets, colleagues, and colleagues, and corporations already have these mechanisms, anti-trust laws, anti-cartel laws, but for super-rich individuals, there are no such rules. we limit their assets and impose a limit on their wealth and use that money to introduce a universal basic income program to give back to the rightful owners the assets and money that the unjust system has taken from them.
madam president, the corruption and misuse of european funds for the green transition, for helping citizens, for changing energy consumption, is at issue. there's a lot of corruption. the republic of croatia is one of the most corrupt countries in europe. the croatian government is one of the most corrupt probably governments in the world, more than 20 ministers have left because of suspicion of corruption and misuse of assets. none of them can prove the sources of their own wealth. we have one of the biggest scandals right now where over 300 million euros that were invested in wind farms were sued and settled in a corrupt way. another person in the ministry has been arrested, a number of businessmen have been arrested. the functioning of the european public prosecutor's office is essential to save european money.
dear chair, dear prime minister janša, colleagues, at a time of dramatic change in europe, 30 years since slovenian independence, your presidency has the responsibility to steer the european course towards a common recovery. i am pleased that, as rapporteur of parliament, together with the council, under the slovenian presidency, i have the opportunity to co-create the european budget for 2020. the budget must turn political declarations into concrete measures, measures to further digitisation of europe, with the development and responsible use of artificial intelligence, strengthening the health union, supporting the western balkan countries and building a secure environment including the strengthening of the schengen area. we can only achieve these priorities together, with a focus on the future, working together towards common goals, with the aim of leaving no region, no sector, no generation behind. the presidency programme shows that slovenia understands this. slovenia has the capacity to implement this and so i wish you much success in the next six months in working together on common goals.
madam president, when we talk about the rule of law, colleagues, we don't have that in croatia. what we have is a corrupt government, and it's all happening under the watchful eye of the european union. the croatian judiciary was set up by the croatian democratic community and as it was then set up, it still stands today. and the fruits that this tree of injustice and theft of justice bears can be seen in the international corruption ladder, where croatia is among the worst. a few years ago, the security intelligence agency issued a report stating that there are judges in croatia who are a threat to croatia's national security. and what did prime minister plenkovic do about it? i mean, nothing at all. well, how about against your own? a few months ago, three judges were arrested for corruption. zvonko vekić, darko krušlin and anto kvesić received bribes from a fugitive from the croatian judiciary who eventually exposed them, and that's all we know about corrupt judges. how many of them took bribes and how many others took bribes and how many criminals are still walking around today. the european commission talks a lot, but does little on the rule of law and the fight against corruption, and the parties here in the european parliament that are friends with hdz support that corruption. it's all really makeup and a lie.
the agenda is as follows: joint debate - recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for a second reading on the asylum, migration and integration fund 20212071 (06486/2/2021 c9‐0225/2021 2018/0248 ((cod)) (a9-0224/2021) (rapporteur: tanja fajon) and of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for a second reading on the integrated border security fund: financial instrument for border security and visa policy 20212027 (06487/2/2021 c9-0226/2021 2018/0249 ((cod)) (a9-0220/2021) (rapporteur: tanja fajon).
the rapporteur. thank you, thank you, chairman, commissioner, and the plenary. today is an important day for europe, for a europe with humane but secure borders and for a europe that is putting solidarity and fair burden-sharing back at the heart of its migration and asylum policies. the new funds will give the union the means to meet ambitious objectives without turning a blind eye to key challenges. we are facing the final step in a long and difficult process of negotiation, of compromise for the common good, not just for europe, but for society as a whole and for european citizens. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues, the rapporteurs, for their continued support and the negotiators, the european commission and the presidents, germany and portugal, for the constructive approach and the agreement reached. the european union will spend a total of €16 billion over the next seven years on the key areas of border and migration management, almost three times as much as in the previous period. in order to ensure the free movement within the schengen area, we need to manage migration effectively. in order to ensure an area without internal border controls, we must also manage our borders in an efficient and secure manner, but at the same time in a humane manner, with respect for fundamental human rights. the european union will now have the means to do so. there will be no more hiding and pretending. with the new financial instruments, with the new funds, we are also setting much clearer rules for the use of european money for one of the most sensitive, even the most controversial, but at the same time the most important policies in the european union in recent years. we are talking about a policy on migration that has greatly increased mistrust among european governments and mistrust among our citizens. the key is that we have reached a fragile but balanced compromise in the end. after the last migration crisis in 2015, europe has unfortunately still not found effective solutions and a common response on how to move forward. we are still fighting and working for a common migration and asylum policy. although we have already reached a great deal in this very building, the ball is still in the court of the european governments. and the victims of these disagreements within the european union have been innocent people first, many of whom have lost their lives. the member states in the mediterranean are still largely left to their own devices. unfortunately, the schengen area has also become a refugee, and it is not functioning as effectively as it used to. because today many countries still exercise, and have for many years exercised, unjustified, illegal internal border controls. the new financial instruments we are discussing tonight, the new fund, address these very key issues on the basis of solidarity and fair burden-sharing, particularly among the most vulnerable member states, the union will devote more money to resettling and relocating refugees. more money will be allocated to asylum procedures and to the integration of people into society, whereby local communities, which are crucial for successful integration, will be given a greater role through direct funding. on the other hand, the fund will also support the return of people not eligible for international protection in the union to their countries of origin. the second set of measures concerns our borders. the agreement significantly strengthens europe's capacity to manage its borders more effectively and thereby enhances common security. but borders must remain humane, modern, digitised and fluid, as must the future european visa policy. we must therefore also learn from the coronavirus pandemic, we want a europe without borders again. and despite all our efforts, europe's borders, especially its maritime borders, are still very deadly. we cannot allow people to die at the doorstep of europe. we also need to ensure that human rights are respected at all times, including at the border and in border procedures. we must also ensure that human rights are respected at all times at the border and we must not allow illegal and chain-linked returns to become a covert way of managing borders. in doing so, they not only undermine the common migration policy but also allow smugglers to continue to make a fat living at the expense of human tragedies. thanks to the european parliament, to my colleagues who have been with me on this journey, more money will now be allocated to search and rescue operations at sea, but more money will also be allocated to border protection, modernisation and digitalisation. the message of the european parliament to the member states and our citizens tonight is clear. the union is serious, we are serious about the 16 billion euro reasons that european leaders are finally overcoming the blockage of key reforms. there are no excuses. we now have sufficient resources to implement the common policy effectively.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is an achievement, and i warmly thank the rapporteur, ms tanja fajon, and the shadow rapporteurs for their relentless efforts to conclude the negotiations with the council on the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and on the instrument for financial support for border management and visa. there are, of course, still a lot of people in crisis, but europe is no longer in a migration crisis. our asylum, migration and integration fund reflects this change. we are moving away from a permanent state of emergency funding to focus on more structural support for migration management, still always putting people first. that doesn’t change. the fund helps member states to help people, mainly by funding internal needs, but also acknowledging needs beyond the eu’s external border, subject to appropriate safeguards, and allowing the new neighbourhood, development, and international cooperation instrument to play its role in migration management. this friday, i will host a high—level forum on resettlement. i want europe to become a global leader on resettlement, helping people in need of international protection to safety. the fund provides the financial firepower to achieve this ambition, creating incentives for member states to effectively resettle people and allowing member states to organise projects to support refugees. the fund supports legal pathways to europe, helping talent to thrive and our businesses to prosper. the fund supports integration and inclusion by helping people to build new homes and new lives in europe. we will work closely with other eu funds, such as the european social fund plus (esf+), to maximise synergies and make a real difference for people on the ground. the fund also supports dignified returns of those not eligible for asylum that have to return to their country of origin. in short, this agreement on the amif is another important step towards a more european way of managing migration. as the examples i just mentioned show, it will play a strategic role in the implementation of the new pact on migration and asylum. the effective protection of the eu’s external border is crucial if we are to manage the challenges ahead. the instrument for financial support for border management and visa policy will support strong and smart borders. it will facilitate legitimate border crossings, while preventing irregular migration and cross-border crime. it will support the good functioning of the schengen area without internal border checks, a topic we will discuss more in the next debate, and support a higher internal security level. over the past few years, a number of measures have been introduced to address the immediate challenges and to put in place the important building blocks needed to ensure strong and smart borders. the funds will support the continuation of this work by ensuring that large—scale it systems used for border management are robust and can function seamlessly with one another and with national systems, and by ensuring that the eu’s common visa policy adapts to evolving security concerns, challenges linked to migration and new opportunities offered by technological developments. the fund will contribute to enhance the member states’ capacities in these areas, reinforce cooperation and harmonisation between member states, and create synergies between national authorities and frontex. the fund will be providing for a minimum level of expenditure of 10% in the common visa policy to ensure a harmonised approach with regard to the issuance of visas. this will facilitate travel. it will also build trust by helping to ensure a similar level of protection of the borders. it will address the current differences between the member states due to geographical location and differences in capacities and resources available. the increased budget, amounting to eur 6.3 billion, will allow us to meet unforeseen needs and new priorities in a better way. our eu funds will help us to put our policies into practice, help us to manage migration and restore schengen to free movement. we now have seven years ahead of us to translate into actions the opportunities and support captured in these two funds. the commission will update parliament and the council on the developments, and counts on your continued support throughout the implementation period.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear commissioner, year after year, survey after survey, we know that migration is one of the topics that is most important to our citizens, a topic that europeans expect the european union to take seriously and to address at european level. this new fund for asylum, migration and integration is a very important first step to show that we have received that message. we tripled the size of the budget to almost 10 billion to also really reflect the magnitude of the challenges that we are facing. these challenges are diverse. member states need our assistance to fight illegal migration, to make solidarity a reality, to ensure good reception conditions, to effectively integrate refugees and to make sure that those who cannot stay are also returned to their country of origin. and yes, this is in essence an internal eu fund, but we must not make the mistake of ignoring the external factors of migration. we need to work with countries of origin and transit to fight smuggling networks together, to support reintegration projects and to offer perspectives in the region. i am happy that the majority of this parliament ultimately agreed with the epp to allow this fund to have the flexibility to do so, because if there’s anything we’ve learned in the past seven years, it is that the future is not always predictable, so we need this flexibility also to be able to respond swiftly to the challenges of the future. and all we need is political willingness in the member states not only to spend the money under this fund, which is fairly easy to do, but to finally take political responsibility to break the deadlock in the council and to agree on a common european asylum system.
madam president, let me be clear from the outset. the immigration package without solidarity between member states is not acceptable. we cannot allow a small number of countries to fall back on european values and principles of solidarity, keeping us all hostage and preventing us from moving forward, with the consequence that peripheral countries, like malta, are left to fend for themselves on immigration. this is unacceptable! one of the four pillars of the asylum, immigration and integration fund is solidarity itself and the fund ensures that member states most affected by immigration find the rest of the european union with them, in solidarity and with common policies and systems to face the challenges together. clearly, this is not done - the only thing done is to solve the problem with money, but this does not solve anything. while the intention of financial aid is very good, the solution is not more money, but solidarity in practice.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, this fund should be a key structural tool to support asylum and integration. it should allow funds to be received and managed by town halls and municipalities without any obstacles. it should be a fund that encourages policies of regularization. it should be a lot more than it is. and although it includes positive issues such as support for real solidarity between member states, humanitarian resettlement and the explicit mention of ngos in the implementation of funds, we cannot support with our vote a fund which calls itself asylum and integration, but which includes funding for the outsourcing of borders to third countries and returns. because integration and deportation are contradictory elements and because a policy focused on the externalization of borders and deportation we already know very well where it ends: in the systematic violation of human rights. and they don't have our vote for that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens of the european union, europe is being invaded by several million illegal immigrants. this is the result of the profit-making ambitions of the big industrialists of germany, italy and france, who, driven by their desire for enormously cheap labor, have brought europe to the brink of conflict. millions of illegal immigrants are entering europe. all the countries of the european union are breaking their own rules. illegal border crossings are not punished. all citizens and all countries of europe have strict laws about it. there are prison sentences, large fines. we follow our own rules and we don't have illegal immigration. you who want cheap labor from the middle east and africa, introduce charters. and don't bully countries that don't have enough jobs for their own citizens.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders is based on the principle of subsidiarity. european funds strengthen and direct our common fight against illegal migration, but also against cross-border crime and terrorism. countries on the external border, such as croatia, are thus equipping their police with the most modern technical equipment, increasing security while fully respecting national and european regulations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and return, in particular by ensuring that the union's asylum system is as transparent as possible, and that the union's asylum system is as transparent as possible. i congratulate the rapporteur on this success but the next step must be a comprehensive agreement on a european policy on migration and asylum.
the migration crisis and then the pandemic have shown the vulnerability of schengen. freedom of movement without internal borders is a symbol of european integration that all european citizens should enjoy. with a modernised police force, croatia is now fulfilling its duty to all european citizens by protecting the longest external land border, responsibly and lawfully and, more recently, with independent border control supervision, the single precedent mechanism provided for in the immigration act. the commission therefore unequivocally confirms that croatia is ready for schengen and the parliament sends a strong message that all europeans should enjoy equal freedom of movement. accession to schengen will bring croatian citizens the equality they deserve, facilitate economic and tourism development and ensure greater security, and this is in the interest not only of croatia but of the entire european union.
dear chair, ladies and gentlemen, although the pandemic is not yet over, europe is slowly opening up and entering a new period, entering a new era. vaccination is progressing, though not always at the rate we would like. the economy is opening up and after months of closure, thanks to covid digital certificates, europe's citizens are once again traveling more easily. this is also a prerequisite for a successful tourist season on which more than 23 million europeans depend for their livelihoods, a sector that accounts for over a tenth of the total european economy and suffered a decline of over 70% during the pandemic. at the same time, europe has a responsibility towards less developed countries. vaccine donation and solidarity towards the countries of the western balkans, our neighbours and other regions, is unparalleled globally but can still be stronger because we will only get out of this crisis together. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure the effective implementation of the national recovery plans. we need to focus on the future, on new digital technologies, but also on our core values: freedom and the dignity of every human person. we have a shared responsibility to prepare europe for a new age and to prepare for a post-pandemic world.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank you for your speeches to remind us how we were able to deploy the digital covid certificate and, in a way, to celebrate this deployment. but as you have said, it is clear that work to ensure the proper functioning of the system will continue. and i want to say some words on different questions raised during the debate. first of all, about the phasing-in to implement a certificate. all the member states are connected to the gateway. so that's the first element, a positive one. the commission has received a couple of notifications from member states, which mostly concern small delays, or delays concerning specific types of certificate. seven member states have informed us that the issuing of their certificate is not yet fully ready. slovakia will start issuing test certificates based on rapid antigen tests as of 9 july. finland will start issuing test and recovery certificates as of 14 july. malta will start issuing test and recovery certificates as of also 14 july like in finland. denmark will start issuing eu digital covid certificates to persons without a danish registration number and in a non-digital format from 12 august at the latest. spain will make use of the phasing-in period until eu certificates can be issued throughout its territory. sweden is not issuing test and recovery certificates as of 1 july and will inform us when it will be ready. ireland is not issuing an eu certificate as of 1 july, they will also inform us, but the authorities are working with 19 july as the date where the issuance of the certificate should start. about the possible frauds: we are aware about reports of fraud. we take this issue very seriously. you know that europol has been following the issue of pandemic-related fraud since the beginning and is monitoring the developments closely. it is important to distinguish between the security of the eu certificate itself and the forgery of vaccination certificates that are used to generate secure eu digital certificates. the eu certificate is secure. it contains a qr code with security features that cannot be falsified and pass a verification check. this is why the commission has set up a system that allows the verification of the authenticity of qr codes across the union. it is very important that member states take appropriate measures to ensure that points where certificates are generated are well protected. it is also important that vaccination proof is properly checked before a secure eu digital covid certificate is generated. the falsification of documents is illegal and punishable under our national laws. i will continue to work on it in close collaboration with the member states. as regards the requests concerning families, i would nevertheless like to point out that we have, in the revised recommendation adopted by the council, provided for the exemption of children under 12 from testing, which makes it much easier for families to travel when the parents are vaccinated. testing is only required after the age of 12. of course, we will continue to look with the member states at how to make testing more and more affordable. i have said that the 100 million we have already raised are being distributed to the 24 member states that have applied for the scheme. there are also steps, of course, being taken in the member states to facilitate access to testing. i would like to stress that we will continue to promote vaccination campaigns. several of you mentioned that there were still delays in some vaccination campaigns. there is a major effort to be made in this area. we will of course continue to coordinate with the member states. it is quite logical that there are concerns about the development of certain variants. what we want to do is to try to coordinate the approach also with regard to these variants. the regulation therefore provides that member states wishing to take new restrictive measures must inform the commission and the other member states. and we obviously want to avoid any disproportionate or discriminatory measures and in particular, as i said, we are trying to avoid travel bans, as we had to try to avoid them earlier this year by intervening with a number of member states. i would also like to draw the attention of your parliament, madam president, to the fact that coordination applies to the member states, but also to all the institutions. you know - well, some of you know, especially at libe - we have an important trilogue on friday. i was surprised to receive a request to take a rapid antigen test before joining the european parliament in brussels, even though i have a full vaccination certificate. i think coordination should take place on all floors. i thought that the certificate could be used everywhere, as you requested, including perhaps the premises of the european parliament. so there is still work for everyone, i think, in this area. i also want to say a few words about the third countries, and of course we are open to working with our partners around the world. we have received a number of requests from different countries. this includes, for example, albania, bosnia and herzegovina, israel, japan, south korea, kosovo, montenegro, north macedonia, serbia, taiwan, turkey, jordan, the united arab emirates, mongolia, thailand and kazakhstan. we have more concrete discussions already with andorra, australia, canada, malaysia, moldova, monaco, morocco, new zealand, san marino, singapore, ukraine, the uk, the us and the vatican. of course, about the us, we are continuing our exchange with the us administration. it was possible to discuss already during the visit of president biden. we have continued bilateral contacts with the secretary for homeland security and we will continue to see if it's possible to have a real positive reaction. as the council agreed in its latest revision of the council recommendation on travel to the european union, reciprocity should be taken into account on a case-by-case basis, where member states decide to lift restrictions for travellers in possession of valid proof of a covid-19 certificate. but also we try to see if it's possible to have a positive evolution in a very short bit of time with different partners everywhere again in the world. i would simply like to confirm, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that the certificate is to help us to facilitate in a concrete way the free movement of persons during the pandemic. but i would also like to remind you, as you all know, that we are of course looking forward to the day when we can once again move freely without restrictions. this will be done as soon as the health situation allows. and on a more personal note, i hope that in the summer that is about to begin, the certificate will allow you to travel to europe and, given the work done in recent months, to enjoy a well-deserved holiday.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. on 1 july, the european union digital covid certificate regulation came into force with the aim of helping to restore freedom of movement within the eu, a right severely restricted after the declaration of the pandemic. from that date, member states should be prepared to issue and verify the physical or electronic document certifying that persons have been vaccinated, tested or have recovered from the disease. the regulation provides, however, for a period of six weeks in which member states may prepare to issue the certificates referred to in the regulation. twenty-one of them, as well as norway, iceland and liechtenstein, had already started issuing certificates before 1 july, and five more started doing so as from that date. however, according to the european commission's data of 1 july, six member states are still not prepared for its implementation (hungary, ireland, malta, the netherlands, romania and sweden), which will require redoubling efforts in this respect.
in writing. on 1 july, the european union digital covid certificate regulation came into force with the aim of helping to restore freedom of movement within the eu, a right severely restricted after the declaration of the pandemic. from that date, member states should be prepared to issue and verify the physical or electronic document certifying that persons have been vaccinated, tested or have recovered from the disease. the regulation provides, however, for a period of six weeks in which member states may prepare to issue the certificates referred to in the regulation. twenty-one of them, as well as norway, iceland and liechtenstein, had already started issuing certificates before 1 july, and five more started doing so as from that date. however, according to the european commission's data of 1 july, six member states are still not prepared for its implementation (hungary, ireland, malta, the netherlands, romania and sweden), which will require redoubling efforts in this respect.
in writing. the european union has approached the challenges posed by covid-19 on the basis of solidarity and community coordination. we have created and adopted the eu funds for economic recovery with unprecedented speed, and now, following the acceleration of vaccination campaigns, we need to make the free movement of citizens accessible again. the eu digital covid certificate was created for this purpose and came into force on 1 july, a week after the extraordinary speed of the emergency procedure. under the regulation, the certificate is valid in all eu member states as well as in norway, liechtenstein and iceland and certifies, among other things, the vaccination, the occurrence of the disease or the negative test result of the individual. the certificate should be made available free of charge to all eu citizens. as a hungarian citizen, i have unfortunately found that the digital security certificate issued by the orbán government is not suitable for ensuring free travel, as in many cases an error occurs when reading it. without a properly functioning eu digital covid certificate, it is difficult to enter other european countries and the required testing in many cases imposes extra costs and burdens on hungarian citizens. it is unacceptable that the orbán government is forcing hungarian citizens into a disadvantaged position with its special-way policy again! as european hungarians, we demand the speedy resolution of the technological problems so that all european citizens can regain their right to free movement!
in writing. on 1 july, the european union digital covid certificate regulation came into force with the aim of helping to restore freedom of movement within the eu, a right severely restricted after the declaration of the pandemic. from that date, member states should be prepared to issue and verify the physical or electronic document certifying that persons have been vaccinated, tested or have recovered from the disease. the regulation provides, however, for a period of six weeks in which member states may prepare to issue the certificates referred to in the regulation. twenty-one of them, as well as norway, iceland and liechtenstein, had already started issuing certificates before 1 july, and five more started doing so as from that date. however, according to the european commission's data of 1 july, six member states are still not prepared for its implementation (hungary, ireland, malta, the netherlands, romania and sweden), which will require redoubling efforts in this respect.
in writing. the digital covid certificate is a major european achievement that is now producing results. in a short time we have managed to be consistent with the demands of european citizens and to offer them a pan-european system to facilitate free movement within the union. greece is one of the first countries to successfully implement the certificate since may and now the whole of europe is benefiting from the implementation of this digital tool, giving priority to the safety of cross-border movements. i would like to emphasise once again that the european covid certificate, launched on the initiative of the greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis, was the most appropriate solution for a safe exit from the pandemic ahead of the summer season and is now available free of charge in all eu languages. today we are doubly proud as greeks and as europeans, because we have proved that we can, in difficult circumstances, have the answers our citizens are asking for and apply them for the common good. as vaccinations progress across the eu, we can feel safe and free to organise our summer holidays without restrictions with the new european covid certificate.
the next item is the debate on the report by nicolás gonzález casares, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a reinforced role for the european medicines agency in crisis preparedness and management for medicinal products and medical devices (com(2020)0725 – c9-0365/2020 – 2020/0321(cod)) (a9-0216/2021).
member of the commission. – madam president, we are into the 19th month of the covid-19 pandemic. even when looking at this number, it makes me realise how much has happened in the last 19 months that has changed all our lives. the european medicines agency has been absolutely central to our collective effort to tackle it. to us, from the very early days of this pandemic, it was clear that we needed to look and to see how we could do things differently. the necessity of a stronger mandate for the european medicines agency became apparent very quickly. we needed to permanently monitor the shortages of critical medicines, we need to report on the risk of shortages of medical devices during crisis and to catalyse the development and the faster approval of medicines with fast-track scientific advice and rolling reviews. we need to act rapidly and we need to act together as a union. i want to thank parliament and all your efforts to reach an agreement on the european medicines agency proposal. this is a proposal which is part of a package of three initiatives that aim to build a strong european health union, and together with the proposal to strengthen the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and our cross-border health threats framework, this package is our collective response to learn from the current pandemic and be better prepared for future crises. and as the honourable member just said, we need to be proactive, not only reactive, to public health crises. honourable members, it’s our responsibility that people have access to critical medicines and medical devices during current and future crises. throughout this pandemic, i want to show you and share with you that the european medicines agency really stepped up its work considerably, but based on temporary and on exceptional measures so that we could have the type of commitment and we could meet the many challenges we were faced with. and they have done a wonderful, wonderful job. but we now need to put this arrangement on a permanent footing. we need to stabilise these ad hoc structures we created that will catalyse the development and the faster approval of medicines to treat or prevent disease causing a public health crisis. it’s for these reasons that these negotiations need to move forward and quickly to a conclusion. the progress made so far by parliament and council on the european medicines agency proposal is a welcome step in the right direction and i want to thank you for your engagement and for your very active contribution. i welcome the fact that the amendments tabled by parliament retain the level of ambition of the original proposal and do not mark a significant departure from its policy objective, and i share that level of ambition with you. but there are just two points i want to raise. some of the amendments put forward by parliament should be looked at again. this applies particularly to the delay of the date of application for medical devices by one year and the creation of a european medicine supply database. if we defer the rules and the application of the rules for medical devices, then we are also at the risk of deferring the enhanced level of protection for citizens. and the medicines supply database goes far beyond the scope of the proposal and would result in duplication and substantial additional costs. so instead, we need to maximise synergies with existing national systems so that our efforts are as efficient and effective as possible. honourable members, a stronger european medicines agency is a centrepiece of a strong european health union. we are building its mandate and it must be strengthened as we look at the pandemic as a stronger, wiser, more resilient and better prepared union. we are called to demonstrate that we can move quickly and decisively to tackle the challenges facing us and to strengthen the structures and systems that protect our health. we have already done it together on eu4health and on the digital covid-19 certificates and the council has already made considerable progress and adopted its general approach on 15 june. now, as we start the interinstitutional negotiations under the slovenian presidency, let me assure you that the commission will play its part in reaching a quick and effective agreement, and you can count on my support. together, we can translate these proposals into concrete and long-lasting protection for citizens in times of crisis. we need a strong european health union, a health union which will deliver nothing more and nothing less than what citizens deserve and what citizens expect from us. and this is not about taking away competences. it’s about being better prepared, and it’s about standing up to what we now need to do. and you can count on me being there with the level of ambition that you are pushing forward with as well.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking mr gonzález casares, the rapporteur, for the good cooperation, and commissioner kyriakides for bringing forward this proposal last november. as both shadow rapporteur for the reinforced mandate of the european medicines agency (ema) and parliament’s contact person for the ema, i strongly believe that reinforcing and extending the mandate of the ema should meet our expectations and at the same time streamline the need for the agency to stay competitive worldwide and give patients quick access to medicines in times of public health emergencies. i welcome the reinforced structure for the functioning of the medicines steering group, the medical devices steering group and the emergency task force that shall be convened during public health emergencies. our citizens need more transparency in terms of how the institutions manage a crisis and respond to it. therefore, i emphasise that public information concerning clinical trials and marketing authorisation decisions will play an important role in regaining citizens’ trust and fighting disinformation. with the reinforced mandate, the agency will approve faster vaccines and medicines in times of crisis and health emergencies, and will also provide more transparency for clinical trials. mitigating shortages is a top priority for me, for the parliament and for the epp, my political group. indeed, the proposal of an eu medicines supply database would be a very useful additional measure to help address eu shortages. but the proposal in this report goes beyond the intended scope of this crisis—oriented legal proposal. thus, addressing shortages needs to be further considered beyond this current legislation as part of revising the basic pharma legislation implementing the eu’s pharmaceutical strategy, supported by an impact assessment and with the involvement of all actors concerned. a common central repository based on standardised data would serve as the first step towards monitoring shortages.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, it has been more than a year now since the european medicines agency has been operating on the edge of the treaty in responding to the covid-19 pandemic. a year of ad hoc solutions, and for one clear reason: to save lives. because, of course, all that matters is saving lives. this also explains why we, the negotiators from the political groups, wanted to get this legislative proposal on the ground as quickly as possible. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr nicolás gonzález casares, for this excellent cooperation between us. the agency will now provide scientific advice at the earliest stages of drug development, to work with manufacturers and thus accelerate the availability of treatments and vaccines. it will coordinate clinical trials across the union to build on the data available. it will continuously monitor the state of stocks of medicines and will therefore be able to identify those shortages much more quickly, which we are in fact defining with recommendations to remedy. the working method is also important - transparency, again. partnering doctors, patients, manufacturers: here again, it is the sacred union that must prevail to accelerate our response to health crises, including, of course, with hera, our future health emergency preparedness and response authority. this strengthened medicines agency will be one of the pillars of the global pandemic response. with this clear hope that the world will be ready in less than 100 days for the next crisis. this is the commitment of the last g7 meeting in carbis bay.
before continuing this debate i would like to make an announcement. i would like to inform the house that the vote on changes to the composition of the special committees and the committee of inquiry will be held tomorrow. the deadlines are as follows. proposal for a decision: today, wednesday, 7 july at 17.30. amendments: today at 19.30. requests for separate and split votes: today at 21.30.
we now continue with the debate on the report by nicolás gonzález casares (a9-0216/2021).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am very glad about the work that we have done and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all my colleagues that worked to reinforce the role of the european medicines agency (ema). many citizens probably did not even know about the existence of the ema before the outbreak of the pandemic, but i think that today many of us have realised that its role is crucial to make sure that the treatments we take, such as medicines and vaccines, work well and are safe. as of today, the ema will be stronger and will be able to help countries in a more efficient and faster way. first of all, it will put a much stronger focus on prevention and on the monitoring of shortages. the pandemic showed us indeed the importance of securing the supply of medicines and medical devices, because their shortages can have a dramatic impact on the treatments and therefore also on patients’ health. companies will now have to submit plans where they explain how they would react in case they face problems during the supply chain and they will get penalties in case they omit information that can be useful to the authorities. this will increase transparency in the process and will allow timely interventions to mitigate possible shortages. we also worked to create a webpage that will be publically available, so that patients, healthcare professionals, but also every citizen, will be able to get information about the shortages in real time. another new element will be the creation of a list of essential products that authorities will consider as critical during a health crisis: this will be important to monitor their demand and the supply and take actions to ensure their availability. however, i do not think it is a good idea that companies have their say on which products should be considered as essential as it is clear that as manufacturers they would have an interest in promoting a product over another one. so i would invite my colleagues to think a little bit more about this and exclude companies from this process. apart from this, i think overall we did a very good job because we are reinforcing an important agency that in future will help us to act immediately and act together to fight viruses and diseases that, as we saw, will not stop at the borders.
for the group the left. madam president, madam commissioner, a year ago we adopted a resolution here on the european union's strategy for public health after the pandemic, in which we all called for a stronger role for the ema. i think we've managed to agree on a fairly balanced text in the committee, despite all the controversy, which will strengthen the agency. i would therefore ask you not to vote against the compromise reached in the envi committee. unfortunately, in the context of the current events surrounding the building of a health union, i see one huge problem. and that's the lack of funding to further develop and strengthen the ema and ecdc health agencies. it was clear from the commission's original proposal that more money would have to be sent to them, because the current resources would simply not be enough. what a shock it was to learn that the ema and ecdc were cutting back in their planned budget for next year. yes, some might argue that they get some extra money from the eu health programme. it can strengthen the funding of these agencies, but at its core it is only project and time-limited funding. plus, the program has far more important priorities that we've overlooked for decades. so far, it looks like the agencies' regular budget has been cut by exactly what they were supposed to get. so we just moved money from the right pocket to the left and wait for something to change. what do we want? i thought we should learn from the current pandemic and strengthen the structures that we have. however, so far, it seems we're more interested in maintaining the status quo. colleagues, i sincerely hope that we can resolve the issue of new funding by the autumn, because if not, we can just blow the whole famous medical union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the epp will support the report. it's ensuring that we can better combat drug shortages, that we're better prepared for future pandemics and similar challenges. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cristian-silviu buşoi as the epp shadow rapporteur, and all the others, including the commission, who have contributed to this result. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the staff of the european medicines agency. the european medicines agency has been massively unfairly criticized in this pandemic. people worked day and night and on weekends, and they didn't deserve the shit that was poured on them. it was good that the ema had accelerated its processes, and i personally encouraged them to do so again, for example, in the approval of the vaccine for adolescents, but this was an indecent sham, and it was good that we in europe had a careful and yet swift procedure. my predecessor said the vaccination rate is slow. what nonsense! most european countries, like belgium or italy, have already overtaken the united states, and next week, i predict, the european union will overtake the united states. the basic decisions we took were correct: conditional authorization and the responsibility of manufacturers, joint european action. it was the right thing to do, and we shouldn't let that get in the way.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the pandemic is far from over. we have a lot of work to do to vaccinate the world, but we also have to start our work on pandemics, on future health risks. neither the eu nor the member states were prepared for the crisis we are now experiencing. it is certainly no understatement to say so. today we are taking an important step towards a health union, towards stronger emergency preparedness, and it is really about time. the creation of the european medicines agency is an important part of that work. we have a very strong agreement on the table. it includes the fact that we are strengthening the prevention work, so that we can be one step ahead when the next pandemic comes. we're increasing transparency so we can better monitor the fda's actions. we are also opening up the possibility of including veterinary medicinal products in the future, because of course sick animals should also be able to receive the right medicines. we're also tackling what was one of the biggest problems at the beginning of the pandemic, which was the shortage of medicines and medical products like protective equipment. it was heartbreaking when they were stopped on the way to their important use. for our value chains to be as interconnected as they are today, we need to ensure that a shortage in one place does not cost a life in another. with a common drug database, we can ensure that we never again end up where we were last spring, where people died because we didn't have the right medicines or the right equipment in place. avoiding empty pharmaceutical stocks will be another key task of the newly re-equipped agency. i would like to conclude by thanking our s&d rapporteur, mr nicolás gonzález casares, for a very good agreement and wish you good luck in the negotiations with the member states.
madam president, commissioner, we hope that the new role of the ema will serve, in an effective and practical way, to improve coordination and facilitate communication throughout the sector, at critical times such as the one we are living through; to increase the scientific basis for decision-making; to speed up clinical trials and registrations of medicines; to generate effective instruments to deal with shortages. but this debate does not end here; it continues with the challenge of designing a pharmaceutical strategy that provides the legal support that incentivizes opportunities in the health field. we must respond effectively to the expectations of the citizens, but we must be mindful that better coordination is in no way a pretext for interfering with the powers of the member states, nor should it create the obstacle of excessive bureaucracy and complexity in management and decision-making.
madam chair, something has been fundamentally rotten in european science and it has been rotten ever since, based on a fake study in the lancet, hydroxychloroquine was dismissed as one of the possible cures for covid. croatia, on the other hand, has the same five experts in the public eye and all of them are connected to the ruling hdz or are members of the same. because of the amount of untruths, nonsense, misinformation they put out, no one in croatia believes them anymore. any dissenting opinion from scientists that is not part of the official narrative is censored and they are branded as conspiracy theorists. careers are being destroyed for people who are far more qualified than members of the political establishment. the latest example is professor krešimir pavelić, a man of enviable career, who fell victim to unprecedented hacks by the authorities and the media for daring to express a different scientific opinion. it's not a science. not only did the vaccine fail the standard testing, but in the countries with the highest vaccination rates, people are getting sick again. any other medical treatments such as hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin are overridden. it's not science, it's politics. people are being forced to get vaccinated with incomplete information, not caring about the consequences. the people of europe are no one's guinea pig. the people of europe have their rights, their human rights, their fundamental rights, they have the right to be informed and not manipulated.
dear chair, dear colleagues, dear citizens of the european union, the ema has endangered the lives of millions of citizens of the european union by approving pharmaceutical products as vaccines against covid-19 disease without any independent studies; therefore, the claims of the vaccine manufacturers are accepted completely uncritically. further, these same claims suggest that the vaccine recipients have a 95% to 98% chance of not getting sick, yet they keep saying that the placebo recipients have only half a percentage point less chance of getting sick. so those who received the placebo also didn't get sick from 94.5 percent to 97.5 percent, which means that these vaccines are only 0.5 percent effective. that's why they couldn't risk the lives and health of the citizens.
the covid-19 pandemic has shown the importance of collaborative research and innovation to find rapid solutions to the biggest challenges, such as vaccines, but also the importance of research science for the sustainable resilience of economies and societies. the multiannual financial framework, the next generation eu instrument, with the necessary stronger linkage of the public research and innovation system with the private sector and the economy, can lay the foundations for a modern and sustainable europe and reduce the backlog for other parts of the world, such as the us. as a representative from croatia and former assistant minister for science, i stress the need to support the less successful member states and address the causes of their lower participation by implementing the enhancing participation and strengthening the european research area package. i am confident that, in synergy with investment in infrastructure and human potential, cohesion policy can achieve this objective, while maintaining excellence as the main criterion and guiding principle. excellence on the one hand and the expansion of the participation of less developed member states on the other are not contradictory. it is the only way for all parts of the european union to participate equally in the growth and development we hope for.
author. – madam president, this is not the first time today that we are discussing hong kong in this house. it is important that we do it because we stand with hong kong’s fight for their freedoms and for democracy. this is not an internal affair. upholding human rights is our common global responsibility. systematically in hong kong the freedoms that were once guaranteed for 50 years to come are being dismantled. i’m very grateful that we have such a good consensus between the five big democratic groups in this house to stand against that. today, we can – we must – say that free media are a thing of the past with the closure of apple daily. but this is just one additional step. the legislative council (legco​) has seen the democrats evicted. the new electoral law is perverse. universities, educators and public servants have been told that they now owe loyalty to the chinese communist party (ccp). on the basis of spurious excuses, the traditional 4 june vigils have been denied, as have other demonstrations. businesses like hsbc have been forced, or lured, into doing the regime’s bidding in the unjust persecution of democratic activists, and the judiciary has been put on notice that, in the future, they are expected not to apply the law, but to apply beijing’s will. the european parliament speaks up. it does so today, and it will do so in the future. but we will need some more voices from member states’ capitals to join the chorus. human rights stand at the centre of european foreign policy, not just for the european parliament. that’s why we also call on political leaders to refrain from accepting invitations to the 2022 winter olympic games in beijing unless the situation changes fundamentally.
author. – madam president, i align with my colleagues, and actually i would like to praise the european parliament and leading groups in finding this unity in defence of the people in hong kong protesting against the imposition of laws that try to curb the hard-won and long-standing liberties they were able to enjoy for quite a long time. we stand by the people of hong kong. it is our particular responsibility. i’m really happy that the european parliament is able to adopt the comprehensive resolution, acknowledging many facts that are needed by the public opinion of the whole of europe in order to create proper policies, foreign policies. i also join my colleagues in appealing to the eu and eu member states’ diplomacies to decline invitations to participate in the events of 2022 olympic games in beijing.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam speaker, the arrest of apple daily founder jimmy lai and the shutdown of the newspaper is another blow, and my colleague bütikofer has listed all the difficulties faced today by pro-democracy activists in hong kong. the arbitrary arrests of journalists and peaceful protesters in recent years are clearly unacceptable, as is the new law today at the electoral level in hong kong. it should be noted that freedom of expression and information is a fundamental right enshrined in hong kong's domestic and international law. all attempts to muzzle pro-democracy activists under the national security act must be condemned. calls on the council to impose swift targeted sanctions under the new eu comprehensive human rights sanctions regime on those who have obstructed this freedom in hong kong; we should also not forget that it is important to continue to raise the issues of serious human rights violations committed by china. because hong kong, of course, is an example here of counter-democratic values imposed by china; but on the chinese side, we have already had the opportunity to talk about the uighurs, xinjiang, tibet and all the other human rights violations on the chinese side that we absolutely must pursue.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, let us be very clear: china has killed democracy in hong kong. and xi jinping has made it very clear that taiwan is the next station. with our resolution, we give a very clear message: a china that tramples on human rights cannot be a close partner to the eu; a china that is exporting its authoritarian model is a threat to our way of life. it is our duty, colleagues, to defend the rule of law, human rights, and a world order based on values. let us work closer together with democracies such as india, japan, canada, australia and the us. let us stand with hong kong. let us stand up for human rights and let us stand up for freedom.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a year ago, almost to the day, the national security law entered into force. our concerns and those of the people of hong kong proved to be right. this law is a pretext for restricting human rights, silencing dissenting voices and dismantling democracy and freedom in hong kong. the case of the forced closure of apple daily is the latest regrettable example. the once vibrant democratic civil society in hong kong that should have been protected under its basic law, as well as its high degree of autonomy, are, as a matter of fact, being destroyed at full speed. it has to be remembered, over and over again, that all this is happening in breach of international commitments undertaken by china by which hong kong’s existing system and way of life had to remain unchanged for 50 years. it is commendable that, despite the crackdown, hong kongers still demonstrate support for human rights and democracy, as happened a couple of weeks ago when, despite the police ban, hundreds commemorated the anniversary of the tiananmen massacre outside victoria park. we need to cooperate with like—minded countries to halt the erosion of hong kong’s freedoms, and we reiterate that, as long as human rights violations continue in hong kong, xinjiang, tibet, inner mongolia and elsewhere in china, and targeted sanctions against individuals – meps amongst them – and entities of the eu are in place, no further steps on the eu—china investment agreement should be taken. the council should take good note of that.
mr. chairman, we've been talking all morning about human rights in bangladesh, iran or hong kong. you're right to be. however, europe complains that its opinion is not respected, which is already the case after a number of resolutions. it would be more respectful of that opinion if we first did the digging in our own backyard. you don't need to look for totalitarian ideas in bangladesh, we have them unfortunately here in europe. the croatian government is threatening workers and employers. the covid crisis support will, unfortunately, be contingent upon the vaccination. first they devastated the economy with failed measures, and now hdz headquarters would implement discrimination and segregation in croatia, and the government threatens the existence of its own citizens. despite all international documents such as the nuremberg code, the council of europe resolution 2361 of 2021 which states that no one may exert political, social or other pressure and that no discrimination may be made between vaccinated and unvaccinated. do the international documents mean anything to you? what will europe do about it? what will the council of europe do about it? just as we call for a solution to the problem that stifles the freedom of rights and thought of those who are not on the side of the authorities in bangladesh or iran, so we need to start in europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, covid—19 has highlighted serious shortcomings at both eu and national level. with the new european health union package we should be better prepared in the future, but only if the council agrees on stepping up efforts. i believe parliament has done a great job. let me highlight the most important improvements to the commission proposal. firstly, future decision—making has to be more inclusive and involve public health experts, healthcare professionals and consumer organisations. decision—making needs to be fully transparent and with conditions on rules of conflict of interest, particularly for members of the health security committee. we need much better accountability than what we have seen around the procurement of covid—19 vaccines. secondly, on transparency, we cannot continue with ‘business as usual’. the procurement of vaccines remains a scandal. we still don’t know how more than eur 2.7 billion from the eu emergency support instrument has been spent, and still contracts with industry remain redacted. as we move on from a state of emergency, we need much more transparency and better accountability in the future. the european parliament should be regularly informed about ongoing negotiations, and up—to—date information about jointly procured products should be provided to consumers, including details of liability and legal protection. thirdly, i am confident that our improvements on the high level of data privacy and security will be carried in the coming negotiations. lastly, we need to improve the eu’s global approach to the pandemic and step up cooperation with the who as well as secure access to medical counter—measures for low— and middle—income countries as part of joint procurement. to this end, compulsory and voluntary technology transfer pools and licensing agreements need to be considered seriously as tools to address the global supply of medical counter—measures.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the two texts presented today are part of the larger health package that the covid crisis has accelerated and, above all, pushed to extremes. because, in order to find solutions to an unprecedented crisis that no one in europe saw coming and, above all, whose management was chaotic, the european union is proposing regulations with potentially worrying effects. in addition to strengthening the role of the ema in managing drug shortages, on which member states have great difficulty in agreeing, we are proposed to strengthen the infectious diseases surveillance agency. however, it was the same one that delayed 22 days before speaking out about the new pandemic, denying its risks until mid-march 2020. a copy-and-paste model of the who, which has failed and whose dire consequences are well known. and now it is being asked to coordinate the response systems of each member state without increasing either the human or the financial resources. similarly, we are being offered a new regulation on serious crossborder threats to health, which is nothing more or less than the dogmatic repetition of elements already dealt with in other texts on stock management, computer databases, trade transparency and, above all, the confirmation of the denial of the protective role of borders. the latter text is, in our opinion, particularly dangerous in that it lays the foundations for the future era agency, modelled on the american barda, to combat the risks of bacteriological warfare. but in the end, it is the weakening of article 168 of the feu treaty, on public health, that is likely to occur, thus seizing all national prerogatives in health matters and without, on the contrary, bringing any added value. this is yet another exploitation of the crisis for the benefit of the europeans. that is why we find these two texts unacceptable.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the covid—19 pandemic has unveiled new and unexpected threats to public health, but also highlighted and exacerbated existing weaknesses in the healthcare system of many member states as well as beyond eu borders. it has demonstrated how a public health problem can affect the proper functioning of all european sectors and has shown that efforts to combat health emergencies require better coordination at eu level. looking at this from an internal market perspective, the regulation on serious cross—border threats to health issues raises three important issues: supply chains, procurement and data sharing. mainly, the pandemic has exposed the limited diversity of suppliers and over—reliance on a few particular supply chains. such vulnerabilities need to be addressed by encouraging broader participation of small and medium—sized enterprises in joint procurement procedures. the eu should pay particular attention to providing technical assistance and reducing administrative burdens, to boost smes’ engagements in the process. last but not least, the new regulation should ensure that data sets are equally accessible and usable across the eu for better coordination. i do hope that the proposed solution will contribute to the improvement of operational coordination in the eu. in this regard, i support the creation of the health emergency response and preparedness authority.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the absence of references to public health services in these reports is striking. public services that were key in the covid-19 response are weighed down by the systemic public disinvestment policies imposed by neoliberal policies and economic and political constraints of the european union on member states. it is not surprising, given the objectives surrounding the so-called european health union, that the european health market does not aim at the capacity building and the necessary strengthening of public health services, but rather seeks to open up the field to projects of liberalization, privatization and concentration of this sector. at the same time, it insists on a public procurement model that seeks to condition the ability of states to diversify the procurement of medicines, the option that blocked the faster progress of vaccination and that tied states to the interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies, preventing the acquisition of vaccines recognized by the world health organization. the response to emerging health situations cannot be a pretext for the transfer of competences from states to the supranational sphere. what is needed is the strengthening of public health services and their universal and free character, and the empowerment of states in public research, in the production of medicines and other medical products, eliminating dependencies on the outside world. the strengthening of cooperation in the field of health must be promoted on the basis of respect for the sovereignty of states and their autonomy, by valuing their national authorities and taking as a reference the public interests and that of the populations.
mr president, the pandemic has undoubtedly been a huge human tragedy, with social and economic consequences that we all know. however, the union has learned valuable lessons for the future. among them, the need to make progress in building a common european health policy, in the specific areas where this greater integration will enable us to do more and better. this regulation on crossborder threats is of course one of the pillars of this new european health union and we are pleased with the quantity and quality of the contributions we have been able to make. these include the definition of real health needs in all policies, the extension of epidemiological surveillance of communicable diseases to their consequences on noncommunicable diseases, in particular mental health, the inclusion of regions, especially cross-border regions, in prevention and transparency plans, and the publication of the list of members of the eu health security committee to avoid conflicts of interest with the pharmaceutical industry. in conclusion, more europe in the field of health so that the member states and regions of the union can guarantee more and better the right to health of their citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. hopefully, we are now moving toward brighter times with less intense intensive care and relaxed restrictions. however, it is now that we must learn the lessons of the pandemic. because around the corner, there's not only a risk of a fourth wave or new mutations of the virus, but it's also about our way of life, in imbalance with nature, which increases the risk of future pandemics. international cooperation, including within the eu, is now required if we are to avoid ever having to relive what we have been through in the last 18 months. at the beginning of the summer, we voted in the european parliament for a strengthened pharmaceutical authority. this will help avoid the shortage of protective equipment and medicines that existed at the beginning of the pandemic. today, however, we are taking the next step towards a european health union. in particular, we are strengthening preventive work with an eu-wide early warning system, regardless of where the next contagious disease may occur. the cover-up of the pandemic that prevailed in the beginning, by china, and which slowed down important measures at an early stage, must never happen here in the eu. in addition to prevention, we now have new tools to monitor and predict the evolution of future viruses in real time. we also support a new global framework for cooperation against pandemics, within the framework of the world health organisation. whether antibiotic resistance, vaccine resistance or unhealthy animal husbandry is behind the next pandemic, the eu must always be armed and ready. this will now become more possible as we take a stand for cooperation on crossborder health threats and a well-equipped european disease control authority. we have enough crises to deal with. let pandemics be a thing of the past.
mr. chairman, i fully support the report of ms. kopczynska in its original form. health cooperation is of paramount importance, and i have a serious appeal to make. today in the european union, depending on the country, we have 30 to 50% of people who don't want to get vaccinated against covid. it's simply a fact and we have to face it no matter what anyone thought about it. we have people who have been vaccinated twice and got the coronavirus, and we have people who shouldn't be vaccinated against the coronavirus. but there is something that all of them have in common, regardless of the differences of opinion on vaccination. we all want and need to help treat all the people who get the crown. that's why i'm appealing to the european commission to invest heavily in drug development. we simply have to involve all the european health institutions like this european centre and we can make great scientific progress in this area as well. there are already treatments in the world that have helped many people to recover more easily. just as you invested in the development of vaccines, now you invest in the development of drugs. now we have huge problems in economies, we have divisions among people and limitations on basic human freedoms. so invest in medicine and help people get back to normal life.
mr president, europe is more divided today than it has been in the last 30 years. today, europeans are divided into those who trust politicians in power and who have ingested pharmaceutical products against covid-19, believing that they are less of a danger to them than the disease itself, even though it was almost impossible to find a person under 70 who died from covid-19. on the other hand, there are citizens who rightly believe that vaccines are incomparably more dangerous than covid-19 itself, especially those under the age of 50. one million and two hundred thousand side effects, fourteen thousand deaths were reported in the european union, the united kingdom and the united states alone.
the commission has also received a number of requests for information from the member states. in such circumstances, as many as 66% of our citizens think that the european union should have more powers in the field of health. yet, even within its existing powers, the european union can and must do more to tackle health threats that transcend national borders. it is with the regulation on serious cross-border threats to health that we are creating a european health union and protecting our citizens from current and future health threats. it is now clear that the world health organization was late in declaring a pandemic. the adoption of this regulation gives us the instrument to declare a public health emergency independently of the world health organisation. as rapporteur for the european people's party in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i proposed a mechanism for prior authorisation by the european commission to introduce export restrictions on medical countermeasures. i am proud that this proposal was adopted as part of this report. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of the measures referred to in article 4 of regulation (eu) no 514/2014. the introduction of this mechanism makes it impossible for the functioning of our health systems to be compromised at the critical moment of a health emergency. the pandemic has shown us that health threats like infectious diseases know no borders. building on the lessons learned, we are now building a safe and healthy resilient european union for the benefit of all its citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, we are entering the peak of the budgetary procedure for the next annual budget of the eu. there is still a lot of uncertainties in front of us, so we will have to remain level-headed and adaptable, but the parliament will firmly insist on our priorities. expectations of citizens, reflected also here in the parliament, are understandably high. the next budget has to be a recovery budget, tailored to support all regions, all sectors and all generations. with this in mind, cuts proposed by the council are, in our opinion, wrong and unacceptable. they include a number of cuts in programmes with excellent absorption capacities. some of them were already mentioned by the commissioner, such as horizon europe, investeu or the life programme. this clearly goes against the political declarations, not only of this house but also of the council. the cuts are therefore impossible to justify, and they are hardly in line also with the priorities of the council presidency. it is especially crucial to use additional appropriations in certain key areas: support the driving force of the european recovery and economy, small and medium enterprises. secondly, reinforce future-oriented programmes in research, innovation and education, with a special focus on youth. thirdly, to strengthen the european health union and fourthly, to boost our efforts towards a digital, green and secure europe. with these aims, we propose to fully reuse the decommitments in the field of research as there is an unexpected amount of decommitments in 2020, which was not part of the mff agreement. this amount must not be lost, and the parliament really sees no good reason to waste this opportunity, which is clearly provided by the financial regulation. finally, the events in afghanistan will obviously largely shape our discussions on the budget, similarly as the discussions with the facility for refugees, and we will need to reinforce humanitarian aid, and this should not be done at the expense of other, especially external, priorities. it is evident that there is the need for additional financing following the recent events, and this is something that will be high on the parliament’s priorities. commissioner, minister delegate, in the recent eurobarometer survey our citizens welcomed europe’s recovery path in responding to the economic effects of the pandemic. let us now meet the expectations and continue to build a strong and resilient europe.
madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, as the world's second largest economy, china is now a global player that is impossible to avoid. china is a huge trading partner, and chinese companies are investing in numerous projects across europe. but it's also clear that china is not part of our cultural civilization. and not only that, but it is also clear that we have radically different conceptions of the way society is structured and that is why in our relations we must insist on respect for international obligations, on respect for human rights and on rules that apply to all. european companies must have access to the market and compete on a level playing field. this will be crucial in defining our future relationship. but more than that, our relationship, our important, and not always simple, relationship, will also determine the imperative of principled cooperation on key global issues, which certainly includes tackling climate change.
madam president, madam president von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to your speech very carefully and i shall try to draw on the points you have raised in your speech. first of all the most pressing issues: the response to covid and the economic crisis. i still see too much complacency in the commission's words, in the words you used: i would avoid calling the situation we are in today a success. of course, there has been a change of course, you came to this parliament in january and acknowledged the union's mistakes and shortcomings, but it is still not enough. and today we still have to thank the states which have set up a vaccination machine, which is certainly not the result of the european commission's coordination. the correctness of the shot cannot be defined as a success, but rather something to reflect on in the future. on the economic crisis, even today, you have rightly given the go-ahead to what the next generation eu was but let's analyze what it is: the first money came a year and a half after the crisis, it's not enough. we've lost time and we're still a long way from getting back to the pre-pandemic level of jobs. a new theme, a theme for today, is that of defence: i understand you've launched a project that will be discussed. i say that the western force already exists, it is called nato, because european defence and military cooperation cannot be independent of the united kingdom and cooperation with the united states. there was just one problem, which is as always a money problem: we have too often taken advantage of the umbrella of the american ally and the states have not done their duty in investing in defence, and you, as a former defence minister of an important country, know this very well. on the green side, on the environment, another point on which this commission has worked a lot, again, enough ideological approaches. it is an important issue, but it must be approached pragmatically: the transition that the union and the commission have built today is an ecological transition for the rich, it is not a correct ecological transition, it is not an ecological transition that must weigh on the less well-off citizens and it is inconceivable that vice-president timmermans, number two of a commission that you yourself in 2019 called policy, says that this is not the responsibility of the commission but it is the politicians who must decide how to redistribute the costs of this transition. i would like to conclude by saying that we are discussing the future and the question of integration, and we will continue to discuss it. today we are all more or less aware that the union needs to be reformed, with different ideas. i'll allow myself to make a suggestion: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we must convince the citizens of this project, because a political project cannot be carried out by forcing the will of the citizens. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the state of the union today can be summed up in one sentence: 'it would be comical if it were not tragic'. the european union faces several crises - migration, economic and health. instead of solving them, the union is engaged in an economic lobbying called the "green deal", and so every time, every day, in every single report there is some call that is directed against the traditional family and to promote something new and something different. in that regard, mr. timmermans, this mask is very revealing, well done, congratulations. it shows that you care about the really important issues, and while the european union is doing these things, our competitors are growing and advancing. while here we call for deindustrialization, in china the factories are working and selling to us and taking our jobs, that's what's happening, gentlemen. it happens because when there are weak people, they create difficult times, and the policy you are pursuing, madam president, is weak and it is visible to everyone inside and outside. you can't choose what the rule of law is, you can't pretend you don't see human rights violations. this union will come back and become a geopolitical factor, and it will be strong, only when it comes back to its foundations, its christian beginning, the protection of national identity, zero migration and the protection of national self-determination.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in the last 80 years, since nazism, never have so many fundamental human rights been trampled on: the right to freedom of movement, the right to work, the right to health care, the right to ban medical experiments being carried out on 500 million people in the european union. it is the right of every citizen to decide about his health and his life and his freedom of movement. we have trampled several centuries of science and medicine. we're putting in measures now and we're keeping them in place all the time. covid certificates where the vaccinated can move freely even though they're transmitting the infection as well as the unvaccinated is insane. you need to stop this division of citizens right now because who knows what the future holds.
the complexity of technological, climate and demographic change requires a decisive european response, as demonstrated in the unprecedented health and economic crisis. the results are visible today, with children and young people returning to schools and colleges, cultural and sporting events taking place and member states beginning to receive record funding for adaptation and modernisation. europeans are therefore clearly in favour of the recovery plan and this trust must not be taken lightly. we have a duty to prepare europe for the new digital era, because that is the goal of national recovery plans and ultimately our place in the post-pandemic world. we need to become more resilient and more prepared for the emergencies that we've witnessed this summer, from natural disasters to humanitarian crises, but also to hybrid attacks on our borders. at the same time, we need to reduce disparities within europe and support societies that are ready for the next european steps. my country is a good example of this. as the youngest member state, croatia is ready to join schengen and we are also close to adopting the euro as an official currency. these are national but also european successes and this is a direction that must be unequivocally supported.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, taxes are used to make progress in society and reduce social inequalities. what we're discussing today, i'm afraid, as so many times in the past, will fall on the back of a small man, a citizen in search of bread, who has gone to work for a few months in another country to be a waiter or a waitress. they're going to be hunted down, they're going to be shut down, and on the other hand, giants like facebook and amazon are consistently successfully avoiding paying the taxes that they should be paying, it's just incredible. facebook always gets out, mr. zuckerberg was in this house, we asked him to comply with eu regulations. what happened? what happened? he said he was withdrawing from the european union market. let's hit where we need to hit, not the little citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, igor tuleya, ewa wrzosek, beata morawiec: these are just three of the many people who have been targeted by the polish government over the past years. they were targeted because they were trying to defend rule of law, democracy, media freedom and fundamental rights. they were targeted because they were trying to defend eu values, eu law and everything that the eu stands for. they very clearly show that the rule of law, the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary are not abstract concepts. behind these concepts there are stories of people. they have names, they have faces and their life realities are at stake here as well. these people were in the forefront of the struggle for the rule of law. they stood up to defend eu values in poland and, when they became targets, they waited for a determined response from the european union. they waited and they waited some more. they were dragged in front of unlawful courts. they were the targets of smear campaigns, of hate and of threats. after waiting and waiting and waiting, finally – finally – the commission seems to have changed its mind and is ready for more decisive action right now. from now on, the stories of the people who stood up for eu values, their names and their struggles, should be at the centre of the eu’s response because this is not an abstract battle of lawyers. the struggle for rule of law matters in every single citizen’s life, and the people who defended our rights and our freedoms deserve not only our solidarity, they deserve our praise and our protection.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. once again, the debate is about poland never ending story. the same allegations of alleged violation of the rule of law keep coming up. as you may know, the legal procedure under article 7 of the treaty alone did not even establish a risk of a breach of the rule of law. this resolution is unfair and unfair to poland. you talk so much about the rule of law and democracy, and yet you've excluded our advisor from working on the resolution. but if you want to discuss it, go ahead. the media in poland is free and there is no problem with freedom of speech. the calls to suspend funds from the kpo, making their disbursement conditional on the prime minister withdrawing the request to the constitutional court, are outrageous. this is political pressure. i cannot express my condemnation of the attempts to encroach on the competences of the member states in the areas of justice, health policy, family protection and education. the reforms we are introducing are based on similar solutions as in other member states. unfortunately, the european parliament, which talks so much about fighting disinformation, is itself creating this disinformation - even through this debate - because there are no lgbt-free zones in poland. and since ms. jourova was in poland, she should tell us today in which city, on which street there are zones that lgbt people are not allowed to enter. you know that's a lie. stop telling poles how to live, how to vote, who to vote for. it was the poles who, in free democratic elections, elected the parliamentary majority that formed the government. it's about time you finally respected that. stop illegally insulting poland and poles.
mr. chairman, mr. members of the house, mr. members of the house, mr. members of the house, it is clear to any independent observer that the summons to poland and hungary is not for the rule of law but for ideological reasons. poland and hungary have traditional and conservative values that are not shared by most of the rest of the european union. i cannot escape the impression that it is called for purely for ideology and that the ultimate goal of this is to change the government from conservative and traditional in both poland and hungary and that it wants to give huge support, through quasi-independent media that is easy to covertly finance, as happened in croatia, and covertly finance various, as independent associations, and thus promote completely different ideological values. let's be honest and leave poland and hungary alone.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the world's largest importer and exporter of food. yet, it is frightening that as many as 33 million people in the european union cannot afford a quality meal every other day. this is particularly worrying when we know that as much as 20% of the food produced is wasted. on the other hand, there is the growing problem of obesity. more than half of the adult population is overweight, and in this context it is estimated that in 2017, more than 950 000 people died in the eu as a result of an unhealthy diet, mainly due to cardiovascular disease and cancer. in addition, the covid-19 pandemic has demonstrated the fragility of the supply chain in the face of health threats. the key is therefore to ensure a transition to a sustainable food system, and this will only be possible with a fair implementation of the farm-to-table strategy. as rapporteur for the european people's party's farm-to-table strategy in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i want this strategy to ensure that citizens have access to healthy, varied and affordable food. it must not, however, lead to a reduction in production and food shortages, nor should the cost of its implementation be borne by consumers, which unfortunately is a real danger today. it also means protecting our farmers from unfair competition from third countries with products of inferior quality, and seeing farmers as partners to be helped, not as enemies, as some political groups in this parliament unfortunately do. finally, only a fully informed consumer can make the right decision when buying food products. so i was very much in favour of putting the nutrition labels on the front of the pack, rather than the small print that was often used on the back, which unfortunately, at the time, consumers very often could not read. finally, i am pleased that we have the opportunity today to speak about the european union's contribution to the transformation of global food systems. however, our contribution to this transformation begins with the european union itself moving towards a sustainable food system.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first, i really enjoyed this debate because it was a debate on a key question. a key question of our time. a key question which goes to the heart, finally, of the future of our planet, of the future of mankind. so thank you very much for this debate. thank you very much for the numerous very interesting contributions, ideas, proposals. we all know that in 2015, the international community agreed on two major ideas or fights – on the one hand, the paris agreement for climate change, on the other hand, the addis ababa action agenda (aaaa), on financing development to achieve economic, social and environmental priorities. and we all know that both are very much linked, because if we do not succeed to really change our policies in relation to climate, we will be facing in the future much bigger issues in relation to food security and hunger. therefore, i think europe, the european union, has to be ambitious, because it’s also about our own future, about our own security, because talking about food security, this is talking about security in more general terms. therefore, europe, the european union, has to play a fundamental role in making sdgs real everywhere. we have now decided that the sdgs are part of our economic and social policy. we have to make the same thing in our relationships with the world and in our relationship with the developing world above all. now we are hopefully getting out of a pandemic and we have all said that we want to change, ‘to build back better’, to take this expression. and we all know that to achieve the goals, especially also on sdgs, change is absolutely necessary, we cannot come back. we have really to make bold changes in many areas and a lot have been mentioned and certainly will be discussed in the future. a lot of areas which are the key of european policies – economic, social, agriculture, but also trade policy, obviously – and we have to make sure also that we are coherent. we cannot, on the one hand, talk about climate change and on the other hand, forget about all the issues which finally are very much linked to producing more co2 emissions. therefore, i say it very clearly, for me agriculture is a centre element not only in europe, but also in the world and it is very clear that when we discuss about hunger in the world, it’s not about thinking that europe can feed the whole world. we have to think about hundreds of millions of farmers in the world to whom we have to give the tools to be able to feed their families, to feed their villages and to contribute to feed their nations. this is what is at stake. this is where the job in many developing countries is. this is where poverty can be really reduced. this is where hunger finally can be reduced and eradicated. so, there might be important summits – what is at stake is that europe playing its role now because the challenge, again, is a challenge for the whole world, is a challenge for the planet.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – on 23 september 2021, un secretary—general antónio guterres will convene a food systems summit as part of the decade of action to achieve the sustainable development goals (sdgs) by 2030 . the summit will awaken the world to the fact that we must all work together to transform the way the world produces, consumes and thinks about food, interconnecting all 17 sdgs, focusing on those relating to eradicating poverty and hungry, mainstreaming the gender dimension and innovation, in a climate—neutral world . the covid—19 pandemic is a wake—up call for change . the crisis has underlined the fact that getting food ‘from farm to fork’, as the eu has launched the strategy, cannot be taken for granted and has demonstrated the interconnectedness of actors and activities in eco—agriculture and throughout the sustainable food system . it has also made us acutely aware of the vulnerabilities of certain groups and sectors and of the inequalities affecting the food supply chain . the post—covid recovery represents an opportunity to ‘build back better’ . more sustainable, fairer and inclusive food systems should contribute to a well—being economy that works for people and the planet, leaving no one behind .
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the reversal of the negative social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, dennis radtke, manuel pizarro, atidzhe alieva-veli, elena lizzi, katrin langensiepen, elżbieta rafalska and leila chaibi, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs [2021/2734 ((rsp)) ] (o-000044/2021 - b9-0032/21).
member of the commission. – mr president, indeed, the pandemic has had a dramatic impact on our economies and societies. it has exposed and deepened existing inequalities, some of them inherited from the previous financial crisis. but this time, faced with this unprecedented crisis, the eu has reacted swiftly and boldly. swift and coordinated action by the eu and the member states helped protect lives and incomes. and this time – and this makes the real difference – europe has shown solidarity. while the eu and national action has significantly cushioned the social impact of the pandemic, vulnerable groups have indeed been hit disproportionately, highlighting the need to have adequate and well-performing social protection systems. as we want to rebuild in a more sustainable and resilient way we need to ensure that the recovery is fair and inclusive. the european pillar of social rights is our guiding compass in this endeavour. i remember the new headline targets for 2030 on employment, adult learning and poverty reduction, and i try to mention a certain number of measures which show that we had in mind precisely more vulnerable groups, and among the vulnerable groups are women, because the majority of the frontline workers were women. in spite of that, and this has been recalled this morning by the president, they are underpaid, badly paid, their work is not recognised as it should be, and therefore we have made a proposal on pay transparency, because applauding the frontline workers, applauding the women who every day try to secure our health system, is not enough. the second one is the young – especially the young – and this was also mentioned this morning by the president, with a new initiative especially addressing the difficult situation of the less-favoured young – those who might not be at university, not in apprenticeships, who might be unemployed, very often the so-called neets – to give them new opportunities, and therefore we have launched a strengthened, a better youth guarantee, which addresses particularly their problems and helps to bring them back into the labour market and bring them back also for being skilled. a european child guarantee. this now has to be implemented. this is crucial because we know that children have suffered a lot, especially disadvantaged or children from disadvantaged backgrounds, from this pandemic, and therefore it’s very important now to implement the child guarantee swiftly also with the european funds which have been included in the esf+. we have proposed a dynamic active labour market policy, which we call ease, effective active support to employment, precisely to bring people back into a job in a job market, a labour market, which is changing, and now we discover there is unemployment, on the one hand, and there are a lot of shortages on the labour market in some countries, so we have really to help people and especially also young people, vulnerable workers, to find a job, and here active labour market policies through reskilling, job-to-job transition and hiring incentives are extremely important. next. occupational safety and health strategy to protect workers because we all know that one of the places with the highest risk is the working place, and the directive on adequate minimum wages is also a way to value work and help those who cannot make a decent living out of their work and their wage. we will continue on that. we will work on the minimum income recommendation. we will also try to have an initiative on distributional impact assessment of the rrf, but also in the context of the fit for 55. question number 2, the data. yes, i agree, we need the right data, we need better data, we need more precise data, to have an evidence-based policy, and this means that we have to work on and improve also the collection of data with eurostat and the member states, and the regional dimension in that context is also very important. on the rrf. i think this is a major achievement and this has been very much underlined this morning by the president, and here also it is clear that member states have understood that the rrf is an extremely important tool to improve social conditions because the consequence of the pandemic has been economic, it has been financial, but it has also been mainly social, and therefore a lot of funding, about 30% of the funds of the rrf, are allocated to social objectives, these being education, health, bringing people back into jobs. all this is extremely important. so i think we will monitor this, obviously, we will see what will be the impact of using the rrf money. the money is certainly in the esf+, precisely focused also on vulnerable groups, but also in investeu. we have eur 2.8 billion for investeu. we have to promote social investment. this goes along with reforms, this goes along with structural reforms, and therefore we need better instruments precisely to foster and to promote this social investment. sure has been mentioned. yes, sure is a big success. we have helped a lot of people to keep their jobs. we talk about 30 million. but what for me is very important is that through the sure instrument we did not just innovate – because it’s the first time social bonds of some kind were created – but we helped all the countries, all the member states, to introduce a short-time work scheme, which they did. every member state introduced a short-time work scheme, so there was not this kind of inequality – some doing it, some not being able for financial reasons to do it – and this kept europe together and improved the situation of our labour market europe-wide. certainly, we will continue evaluating sure, 94% of the money has been allocated. now we look at how it has been used and certainly in september we will come back with a new report on the impact and also the way how sure has been implemented. skills are key. we are in a changing world and this has been accelerated by the pandemic. we have seen digitalisation everywhere, so skills shortages are very much on the digital side and therefore this commission has pushed very much on skills, on the skills side, with the european skills agenda, with a pact for skills. now we will make a proposal on individual learning accounts, and what is also important is the porto objective – 60% of all workers should be part every year of a lifelong learning scheme, and especially i insist on those with the lowest level of skills because their jobs are the most threatened. finally, further work with member states since the very onset of the coronavirus virus outbreak. the commission has coordinated a common european crisis response. we have to come back to the semester. we have to really follow up on what has been decided. we have to analyse the shortcomings in the member states as a consequence of the coronavirus crisis, because we all know that even if this pandemic will end, hopefully soon, we will have the scars of this pandemic. so we have to continue working on these scars through very effective measures.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, aristotle said that man is a social being. so let's get into the people, get into us people a little bit. let's not talk about what europe has done for people, but let's talk about what those people have experienced. this debate is also about a certain approach and a change in our thinking. she's got something to show us. it's not just about us being here talking about how good the european union is. some things just didn't work out, and we need to learn from them. how can there be a society if we can't meet? what was it like when we couldn't exchange our opinions with each other and were separated in social isolation? what was it like for families, families with children, mothers who had to do their jobs, or even fathers, to do their jobs, which they did at 100 percent and above? and we also have to remember that the pandemic has hit the most vulnerable, the elderly. it's very important to remember the stories of generosity from all the countries of the european union. in the czech republic, people were sewing robes, young people were shopping for old people, there were lots of digitization projects. when i was helping out at the hospital, i used cell phones to connect the elderly with their children. and i can tell you that these stories are very moving and they still chill me to this day. people who hadn't seen their relatives for months could finally meet them. and i would say that we should learn from the negative. the whole pandemic has been managed in a way, and it's up to us to learn from it for the future.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, madam, thank you for your report. ladies and gentlemen, whenever we are faced with a crisis, we are also reminded of this uncomfortable truth: the impact of the crisis is extremely uneven. this is also the case with this pandemic we are going through, where the lockdown measures have led to economic recession, mass unemployment, deteriorating working conditions, increased inequality and social exclusion. the statistics are depressing: according to the international labour organization, in the fourth quarter of 2020, the number of working hours worldwide decreased by 4.6%. this represents 130 million full-time jobs and these losses were almost four times as large as during the 2008 financial crisis. to make matters worse, the health and public services of many member states are still affected by austerity measures. these member states are therefore not in a position to provide adequate health services to the population or to protect health and care workers. we should not be concerned only with profits, stability and growth. it is clear that the union will only be able to overcome the crisis and prepare for future crises if we build socially, economically and environmentally more resilient economies. just look around the streets. there are still at least 700 000 people in the union who sleep on the streets or in shelters for the homeless. with the green group we are calling on the commission to take evidence-based action by developing indicators on homelessness and a framework to monitor progress and report back to parliament. we need to do more, and we need to do it now.
mr. chairman, when the covid pass was voted on, what was the european commission's explanation? it's just a means to an end, not a condition. and what has that auxiliary turned into? it's become a tool of blackmail and coercion. it has become what all of us who voted against the passport and warned it would become, a means of segregation, so that in slovenia now you cannot go to a hospital or a shopping mall without a passport. in italy, it is now said that one cannot get a job in both the public and private sectors without this passport. and i'd rather not talk about france. what else is a means of segregation? it's a mask. it's useless and harmful to healthy people. in croatia, in krapinské toplice, primary school student nikola gaćina, who does not want to wear a mask because it interferes with his normal functioning at school, cannot, therefore, listen to the lesson. the headmaster, a hard-liner from the ruling party, does not allow him to enter the school building at all, and he has hired security guards. the child's right to education is being defended. his constitutional rights are being violated. this is all about blackmail and coercion, and only civil resistance can stop this, because the more you give in to the blackmailer, the worse he gets.
member of the commission. – mr president, i will take this oral question on behalf of commissioner kyriakides. we are still in the midst of the pandemic and covid-19 cases remain high across the european union. however, on 31 august, we reached a crucial point in our strategy. we fully vaccinated 70% of the adult population and that number is increasing every day. the eu vaccine strategy, which is an excellent example of eu collaboration, provided a foundation for this progress. i want to thank this parliament for its contributions to that effort over the past year, and i’m delighted to have this opportunity to update you on where we stand. to date, we have signed 10 contracts, seven advance purchase agreements and three purchase agreements with vaccine manufacturers. our negotiations are advanced with one additional company. we continue to work intensively with, and for, member states to ensure a diverse common eu portfolio of vaccines against covid-19 and therapeutics developed using different technologies. the commission fully recognised the importance of transparency in this process. due to the highly competitive nature of this global market, the commission cannot unilaterally disclose all the information contained in the contracts. the law protects the commercial interests of the companies. non-disclosure clauses are a standard feature of purchase agreements. they protect the legitimate interests of the companies, which have made large investment in research and production capacity. there are also rules that protect the tendering process. disclosing sensitive business information would weaken the position of the eu in ongoing negotiations, thus undermining the beneficial effects of fair competition and the effectiveness of the single procurement process which has allowed reaching the best conditions for member states and citizens. but that being said, we have carefully listened to your calls for more transparency and worked with the companies to increase the information that is accessible. until now, we have published nine redacted purchase agreements for covid-19 vaccines. i want to take this opportunity to highlight some crucial points. safety is a fundamental requirement for any vaccine to be deployed in the eu. the safety of citizens is our top priority, and this is non-negotiable. the european medicines agency (ema) has published on its website all trial data of covid-19-related vaccines and therapeutics that are part of marketing authorisation. the agreements with vaccine developers do not change or derogate from the eu legislation and rules on liability. we are acting in full compliance with all applicable rules regarding financial management. the eu vaccine strategy is still being implemented, with new contracts being negotiated and signed. however, further down the line, when we will have a broader perspective, we will conduct an in-depth review and conclude on lessons learned from the strategy. honourable members, i want to conclude with a crucial point. i’m a firm believer of transparency. transparency creates trust, and trust is key when it comes to vaccines. during this process, the commission has listened to you, parliament, and had regular exchanges to keep parliament fully informed. you have set up, within this house, a contact group where multiple commissioners have discussed with members on a weekly basis all aspects of the vaccine strategy and roll-out. this is of course on top of the numerous exchange in the plenary chamber and competent committees where vaccination against covid-19 has been debated. let me reassure you that we will continue this open dialogue, and in addition, i will send a personal message from stella kyriakides to all of you. thank you for your engagement and all your support.
on behalf of the ppe club. dear chair, commissioners, colleagues, due to the extraordinary circumstances caused by the pandemic of unprecedented scale, extraordinary efforts have been made to develop and study a vaccine against covid-19 to be approved and made available to all our citizens as soon as possible. by investing hundreds of millions of euros in research projects and more flexible procedures, the european union coordinated and funded a joint effort to ensure that a vaccine could be found and deployed quickly, and eventually succeeded. initial procurement problems, in particular with some pharmaceutical companies, have shown that transparency is necessary as a precondition for fostering and maintaining public confidence in vaccines, combating disinformation, but also strengthening the legitimacy of the decision on the joint medical procurement of vaccines at union level. the public deserves to have as much information as possible about vaccine procurement contracts funded by public money, within the legal limits of course. in this context, i particularly welcome the fact that the commission introduced the principle of reciprocity and proportionality at the beginning of the year in the framework of the mechanism for transparency of vaccine export authorisations, thereby significantly improving the transparency of exports and protecting the interest of all member states of the european union as well as its citizens. and that's exactly the way we need to go forward. in any case, we should commend all that the commission has done so far in terms of transparency and the data it has revealed so far, but of course we should do everything to make this transparency even greater when concluding future contracts. the commission has also provided information on the progress made in the implementation of the union's vaccines strategy, including the progress made in the implementation of the union's vaccines strategy. by pooling smaller vaccine procurements, smaller and less economically developed member states have been given equal access to the vaccine, and the european union has sent a message that there are no first- and second-class citizens in europe, which i think is the most important thing here. finally, despite some problems and objections, the european union has passed the test, ensuring equal access to vaccines for all its citizens. a strong message of security and togetherness and trust was sent.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, more than 18 months after the start of the pandemic, we are facing new strains of the virus, and in all member states we have a new wave of infections, new restrictions in parallel with the vaccination campaign. beyond the economic and health measures that can be taken to effectively combat the virus, what can save us, both nationally and as a global power, is trust. the confidence of european citizens that the commission, the european parliament and all the institutions are working in the interest of the citizen, with all the data correctly evaluated and translated into our work. the belief that the measures we're taking are right, that the vaccines are safe, and that we'll soon be back to normal. as we can see, this trust has been lacking since the beginning of the health crisis and is still lacking, but to a greater or lesser extent in all member states. why would you do that? because there was a lack of transparency. you cannot ask the national states to implement and communicate measures for which you, the european union, do not give a full and correct explanation. with regard to the development, procurement and distribution of vaccines, transparency is the main condition for fostering and maintaining public confidence. as a member of the committee on petitions, i have seen the absolutely natural desire of european citizens to know all the information about vaccines. i have also repeatedly asked the commission to make public the full versions of the contracts with vaccine manufacturers and i am asking it again today. we're now moving rapidly towards a third dose of vaccine, at least for the vulnerable. for this third dose, will we witness again secret negotiations and contracts? or, in the light of past experience, does the commission consider responding to my and my colleagues' requests in the european parliament, answering the questions of journalists, civil society and european citizens and guaranteeing full transparency of these purchases? i don't want to be misunderstood. the joint procurement is certainly a successful example of the union's contribution in an emergency situation. it is clear that we are stronger together, but we cannot ignore our responsibility to the european citizens we represent. we cannot spend their money in a non-transparent way, we cannot tell them that their questions don't deserve answers, especially in this crisis situation when we are not only asking for their cooperation, but imposing exceptional measures on them. the desire of europeans for a health union is clear and i hope that we will move quickly towards greater coordination in this area. how will it function without strict accountability and transparency? one more point, beyond the possibility of parliamentary scrutiny in this case: from the perspective of my legal profession, i draw attention to the fact that the lack of information on prices and liability in the contracts that we all consulted - of course, still partly classified - sets a dangerous precedent for future joint medical procurement, including the purchase of the third dose, again. does the commission take into account the warnings of experts that covid-19 is evolving into a seasonal virus for which periodic immunisations would be needed? what are the commission's plans in this case? will new joint purchases be marked by this lack of transparency ? as a member of the committee on budgets, i would like to remind the commission of parliament's role in budgetary control. there can be no exceptions in the way money is spent on only certain subjects; and here again we are talking about the trust of europeans in the union, now and in the future common challenge, a trust that we greatly need, no matter what political party we represent at national level or what european parliamentary group we belong to. it is about trust in the common european construction, in european values constantly under attack both from within and, above all, from outside the union. i therefore expect the commission to put forward a concrete deadline for the full publication of the vaccination contracts.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of the union have the right to full transparency on all aspects of the european union's vaccine strategy. this should be taken for granted for a public institution, especially when we're talking about the bloodiest health crisis in the last hundred years: making all details of decisions taken on behalf of citizens available in a transparent manner should be a well-established practice. but the european commission is not, and will not be: the commission continues to be very opaque in its conduct, undermining not only the legitimacy of its action but also the respect of the fundamental rights of citizens to access information, as defined in european law and reaffirmed in the established case law of the court of justice. the commission has spent billions of euros of public money, i.e. money from european citizens, to support the research, development, production and purchase of covid-19 vaccines, thereby reducing the financial risks for the pharmaceutical companies involved. nevertheless, it continues to deny full transparency on all details of the preliminary purchase agreements and vaccine purchase contracts with the multinational pharmaceutical companies. the european commission even goes so far as to state this explicitly on its institutional website: the commission's priority is not to ensure full transparency of the decision-making processes underlying the crucial choices it has made. the commission is not concerned that the lack of transparency affects the legitimacy of its work in the field of public health protection; what continues to prevail over vaccines is the protection of the possibility of maximum profit for the pharmaceutical multinationals, both in the current context and in the future, by legitimizing the economic exploitation of the drive, to the detriment of transparency. this is a subject which should have been excluded from economic logic from the outset, and which should have been characterized as a 'global public good'. moreover, the european commission has peacefully, through its conduct, prevented this parliament, the co-legislator and representative of the european citizens, from exercising any power of control over the process of purchasing and distributing vaccines, thus undermining its ability to verify the correct application of the union budget. i therefore strongly support this oral question and the resolution we will be voting on in october, in which this parliament asks, must ask the european commission explicitly, echoing the many requests that have come from citizens, through petitions, to publish in full and without further delay all contracts signed with multinational pharmaceutical companies on vaccines and to provide as a precondition for future agreements the public disclosure of all related details. it is a duty to all citizens.
mr president, problems with transparency and effectiveness, plus the fact that we have zero long—term safety data on the vaccines, are undermining the vaccination campaign. and quite rightly so! there are alternative solutions, and citizens and meps need to hear about them as well. a few days ago, a summit was held in the italian parliament, in the italian senate. what we saw in rome was about 30 physicians and medical scientists from europe and all around the world giving their testimonies on successful covid treatments, especially early covid treatments and covid prevention. the solutions they presented are successful, simple and inexpensive. some of the doctors have treated several thousands of patients, with only a few hospitalisations and zero deaths. citizens of europe and the world have the right to choose their own therapy, and no medical information should be denied from them. we must ensure that all therapies and protocols are available to everyone. there must be options in every pharmacy and every hospital. i hope that in the near future, these doctors will be giving their testimonies in front of this parliament as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to start by saying that i am sure that the european commission has done all this work in good faith, and i want to particularly praise two excellent ideas, namely solidarity and a common european approach to vaccines. but what we need to know now is the fact that this is a very, very sensitive process where communication has to be clear, it has to be honest and above all it has to be transparent. otherwise, there's a cacophony, and then there's a whole range of conspiracy theories, and then there's a distrust of our citizens. and here, of course, we're talking about public resources and we're talking about health. so maximum transparency, of course, respecting all laws is above all. and here we have to emphasize one thing, and that is that not only in the development, not only in the distribution of the trial and the results of the vaccine, but in that whole chain of information, it has to be clear, accurate and fast. speed, speed is the key word, and the one who needs to dominate that space is the profession. unfortunately, we often see that in the past, this was not the case. i'm not going to go into the contracts, the quantities, the distribution, but what i want to stress is that we're in a very delicate moment. we see that the vaccination is slowing down and what's the most common word is the word maybe. there may be a third dose. maybe we'll get vaccinated once a year, maybe, maybe, maybe. so i ask the commission to make everything extremely transparent, to make information available right now, to stop misinformation from growing, and to make the goal that we all need to have is growth and trust in the system, in science, in vaccination. so, to simplify the whole story, the key word is the trust and safety of our citizens. and everyone who gets vaccinated has shown faith in the system and has shown faith in the institutions. and so europe has to be honest, open, and what i'm interested in, so, is whether the european commission has any ideas towards innovative channels of communication because, clearly, vaccination is repeatedly slowing down and how to reach those who are not or do not want to be vaccinated for various reasons. many people today would rather trust an influencer than a top scientist, let alone a politician. so, yes, transparency, yes, security, but also communication, and it's a different communication than it used to be. and so i'm asking you to make more of an effort because we're living in 2021, and there are a few people who don't have smartphones anymore and a few people who don't have social media anymore, especially young people, and i think there's a huge amount of room for improvement. and let's not forget, any lie repeated a hundred times becomes the truth. so i ask you to consider whether everything that could have been done in the last year has been done in terms of communication, because, of course, that's how we save lives. i think there's still a lot of room to improve to build up the public's confidence in the whole system and in vaccination. to go to the end, i'll say that joint procurement is a great idea, and i think we should think about jointly procuring vital medicines so that we can create a more just, a more equal society throughout europe, but also always keep in mind what the famous nobel laureate marie curie said. she said nothing in life should be feared, but it should be understood. so to understand, we need information, and to have the right information, there has to be transparency. so we can have a transparent way of getting information, and then we don't have fear, then we have trust, and then we have secure and satisfied citizens.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, artificial intelligence is an admirable tool and a tremendous potential for our peoples and our nations. but as usual, the european union is spoiling it in the worst possible way, by turning it into an instrument of ideological struggle. so in police and judicial matters, where computer technology can make decisive progress for the safety of our fellow citizens, especially our children, you limit its use. you claim that artificial intelligence would reproduce and even amplify discrimination, which would force it to forbid certain conclusions and to be as blind as you in the fight against crime. you refuse to have a smart lie detection system at the eu borders, when 80% of the so-called isolated minors are actually adults and 70% of asylum applications are rejected because they are unfounded. you claim that the american case of george floyd, which does not concern us, is evidence of alleged racism by the police forces, and demand national plans to fight the policeman rather than the thugs. we expected this report to talk about artificial intelligence, criminal efficiency, the safety of our fellow citizens and we have only laxity for offenders and ideological lessons for law enforcement and honest citizens. since europe does not want to control its borders and fight crime seriously, then the member states will have to take their fate in hand and decide by election or referendum on vital issues of security and sovereignty: this is exactly what marine le pen will propose in france in march 2022.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not i want to make it very clear that our group does not accept biometric facial recognition in public spaces. facial recognition should, in principle, be used only in strictly regulated cases and to a limited extent. the protection of fundamental rights is the measure of any state governed by the rule of law. we don't want biometric facial matching to creep into the standard police procedure. the technical feasibility of making police work easier does not justify the automatic use of such a fundamentally invasive technology. and that is why we shall vote against the amendments tabled by the epp group. we have a strong report on the table that clearly identifies the potential for discrimination by ai, because algorithms can promote social and racial thought patterns. the amendments tabled by the epp group are in opposition to this. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament and the council are informed of the results of the evaluation of the application of the directive. there's also plenty of evidence of wrongdoing that puts innocent people in trouble. biometric facial recognition, once accepted as the standard, is mass surveillance and a serious invasion of privacy. and that is precisely why any form of unnecessary surveillance must be banned.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, we have seen in recent years how some good ideas and some not so good ideas turned into a complete disaster. the idea of personal data protection has led us to the point where today almost every citizen of the european union has to give to every bank, to every company he meets almost all of his data that he never had to give before. covid passports, which were introduced to make it easier to travel, today for those who are perfectly healthy, but don't have it, prevent them from using health services, from buying at gas stations. soon, they won't be able to buy food. now this idea of biometric tracking of citizens, although initially only in criminal proceedings, i'm convinced it will refer to tracking of every citizen at all times, and that's unacceptable.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. however, if not appropriately regulated, ai can compromise the privacy of individuals and lead to various forms of discrimination. not surprisingly, 88 percent of the public feel that the internet should be handled with care. the fight against sophisticated, well-funded and equipped terrorist and criminal groups in the 21st century cannot be imagined without the use of artificial intelligence. on the other hand, the example of artificial intelligence is particularly sensitive in the field of criminal law because it involves the possibility of geometric recognition and algorithmic decision-making. to protect citizens from its misuse, but also to become a world leader in smart technologies, the european union needs a new, comprehensive approach to artificial intelligence. such an approach should prohibit the concept of social valuation, which can be used to collect a wide range of data on citizens and their behaviour by means of algorithms. on the other hand, the use of biometric identification, i.e. facial recognition systems in public places for law enforcement purposes in accordance with the principle of proportionality, should be limited to situations such as the search for a missing child, the prevention of a specific and imminent terrorist threat and the detection, location, identification or investigation of the perpetrator of a serious criminal offence or a suspected perpetrator of such an offence. we need to strike a balance between using artificial intelligence to catch criminals on the one hand and protecting human rights on the other, but without spreading the hysteria and paranoia that we're sadly witnessing here today.
mr president, unfortunately, belarus is not the only place with endangered democracy. listening to this debate today, many people in europe will ask themselves: where are my freedoms? what about repression against us in europe? what about repression against the people who just want to be free from the mandatory nature of digital covid certificates – a useless document for prevention? protests – we speak of protests in belarus one year ago, but we cannot see the protests in our own capitals today. we speak of dictatorship, but where is democracy in our own countries? is a bleeding person hit by the police in minsk more important to us than a bleeding person in berlin or paris protests? we are blackmailing our citizens. policies have been installed that have stolen their normal life. you cannot keep your job without the dcc; you cannot enter a public building without the dcc. there is even an idea rolling that the staff will not be permitted into this very building in the european parliament without a dcc. if this continues, we can throw to the trash decades of work on declarations, resolutions and conventions that speak of rights and freedoms.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to refugees in turkey, it is good to talk less about politics and more about humanitarian issues. turkey hosts some 4 million syrians and another 700,000 of other nationalities, including afghans. this makes turkey the largest refugee-hosting country in the world. since 2015, about 500,000 syrian babies have been born there, and 1.5 million syrian school-age children live in turkey. whether they stay or return to their home countries, meeting their educational needs is key to the stability of the region and its future. of the €6 billion under the refugee facility in turkey, approximately €1.5 billion has been allocated by the turkish state to projects in the education sector. if turkey cannot protect them, they will sooner or later try to cross into the european union. so there is a mutual interest in improving the living conditions of refugees. this is obviously not just a turkish problem, but an international problem. if we cannot provide them with a secure future, tomorrow they could pose a serious threat to the security of the societies that host them. i therefore welcome the commission's recent proposal to mobilise an additional eur 3 billion to be used to continue the projects. we cannot and should not leave this huge burden on turkey alone.
madam president, first of all, i would like to say that i am in a rather uncomfortable situation, because it was mr várhelyi who started the debate, but it will end with commissioner urpilainen, when i had things to say to mr várhelyi. but i'll send them to mr. varhelyi and you can give him the message. what is a problem is not the trust funds, which are an element of flexibility, but the policy orientation that has been given to the trust funds since 2014. the trust fund for africa has mobilised 5 billion, normally to address the global issues that are the root causes of migration, but priority has been given to border control and the readmission of refugees. only 1.5% was devoted to regular migration routes. one and a half percent! if i take the facility for refugees in turkey, of course we should help refugees in turkey, but not in the shame market, saying that turkey should close the borders in relation to arrival in europe. same goes for the libyan border guards. we cannot finance border guards who turn back these people who today, in the best case, are turned back, in the worst case, die in the mediterranean. the madad fund: of course we have to help lebanon and others with the people who have fled there, but then, are we funding the barbed wire fences to ensure that these people do not take the balkan route? so, mr várhelyi, i ask you a question: the effectiveness of a migration policy is not measured by the number of people turned away, but by the quality of our protection of them with legislation.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for a very fruitful discussion today. as you know, the trust funds were only granted a final one-year extension and are, therefore, going to expire at the end of this year. we have achieved a lot thanks to the trust funds and the facility. we will build on these achievements but also – in view of your criticism today – on the lessons learned and on the report’s recommendations to decide on and implement our future action under the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) – global europe. the involvement of the european parliament in the design and implementation of the new programming phase will continue to be paramount. next monday, we will organise the next geopolitical dialogue with the committee on development (deve) and the committee on foreign affairs (afet), where we can also continue our discussion.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. thank you for all the votes. and i've been writing down the words that have been used most often in this debate, apart from, of course, erdogan, turkey and the libyan coast guard. the three most common are human rights, transparency and democratic scrutiny. i am glad that these are the strong points and conclusions of our report and i believe that the commission will take this into account when shaping the model of relations with the european parliament in the future.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, wednesday, october 6, 2021.
in accordance with rule 241 (4), it is announced that no vote has been requested on the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, the committee on budgetary control and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which were announced yesterday at the opening of the partsession. the adjustments are therefore deemed to be accepted.
the next item is the report by mr urmas paet, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the state of the eu's cyber defence capability (2020/2256 (ini)) (a9-0234/2021).
rapporteur. – madam president, yesterday facebook and its products like whatsapp and instagram went down. this was supposedly just a technical problem and not a cyberattack. but all over the world, communications were hampered. the usual information flow stopped. but we might have bigger scares, see bigger damage and even human losses if a state or non-state actor decides to attack our critical infrastructure, like hospitals, energy or transport, or to meddle in elections. the recent pegasus spyware scandal has shown the vulnerability of journalists, human rights activists, elected representatives and other citizens that were massively spied on. more connectivity means more vulnerabilities. in recent years, the eu has seen a continuous growth in cyber operations conducted by state and non-state actors against the eu and its member states, revealing vulnerabilities in networks essential to european security. these days, every conflict has a cyber-element to it. it is important for the eu and its member states to strengthen cyber-resilience and develop common cybersecurity and defence capabilities, in order to respond to such security challenges. president von der leyen said in her state of the union address that, given that resources were scarce, we had to bundle our forces. we should not just settle for addressing the cyberthreat, but should also strive to become a leader in cybersecurity. if the eu wants to be seen at the forefront of digital ambitions, it must increase its technological sovereignty and innovation, and be ready to raise the level of its cybersecurity. a common cyber-defence policy and increased cooperation at eu level to develop common and improved cyber-defence capabilities are essential elements in building a stronger european defence union. the borderless nature of cyberspace – as well as the substantial number and increasing complexity of cyberattacks – requires a coordinated union-level response, including common member state support capabilities and member state support for measures in the eu cyber-diplomacy toolbox, as well as intensified eu—nato cooperation, based on information-sharing between cyber-crisis response teams, the exchange of best practices, enhanced training, research and exercises. the european external action service and the commission, in cooperation with the member states, need to develop a comprehensive set of measures and a coherent policy on cybersecurity, in order to enhance resilience and coordination on cyber-defence. it is essential for the member states to significantly increase classified information-sharing capacities in order to facilitate information-sharing where needed and useful, and to develop a rapid and secure european network to detect, assess and counter cyberattacks. the eu has taken many measures to raise the level of its cybersecurity and cyber-defence capabilities. it has adopted and applied a legal framework for targeted restrictive measures against cyberattacks, and eu-nato cooperation has increased in the cyber-defence field too. but even more coordinated union level action is needed. the review of the cyber defence policy framework should strive to enhance coordination between eu actors and also between and with member states. pesco offers excellent ways to speed up cybersecurity initiatives and should be used to that end. the strategic compass should be used to deepen the strategic culture in the cyber domain and help to overcome the current fragmentation and complexity of the overall cyber architecture within the eu and remove any duplication of capabilities and mandates. fragmentation carries serious issues with resources that need to be addressed. the establishment of a joint cyber unit is needed to increase cooperation and information—sharing between eu institutions and enable the full use of existing structures, resources and capabilities. increased funding is needed for the cert-eu and the eu intelligence and situation centre, and to support member states in establishing and strengthening security operation centres in order to build a network of these centres across the eu. it is also important to improve citizens’ skills and raise public awareness on cyberattacks and how individuals can defend themselves against these attacks. more operational assistance is needed between member states. trust also needs to be built, as this is still one of the big obstacles. common exercises and scenario-based policy discussions on crisis management are important in this regard. we are witnessing increasingly aggressive behaviour from russia, china and north korea in cyberspace, and it is clear that in order to be successful in overcoming threats to euro-atlantic security interests, increased coordination with nato is needed. for this, coordinated exercises and joint training are indispensable. we need to look for possible complementarities with nato to avoid duplication and acknowledge that respective responsibilities and coordinated exercises and joint trainings are indispensable. functioning deterrence can be achieved when the adversaries have a better awareness of the possible countermeasures. increased cooperation with nato allies, like-minded countries, united nations and the osce is also needed. member states and the eu should also be at the forefront of discussions under the united nations to help promote responsible state behaviour in cyberspace. finally, i would like to thank all my colleagues and staff that have helped to draft this report. i wish you all a good debate and hope that you can support this report.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me thank rapporteur paet for bringing cyber defence issues to our attention. as highlighted in the report, in recent years we have seen continuous growth in cyberattacks against the eu and its member states, which is affecting european security. the best way to face these threats is to join forces and mobilise resources, as rightly indicated in the report. to protect cyberspace we need to modernise our capabilities, advance research, training and exercises and increase efforts to prevent, deter and respond to cyberattacks. the eu cyber diplomacy toolbox has already proved its value in allowing member states to take measures, including sanctions, to address cyber activities affecting them and threatening their security. our 2020 joint eu cybersecurity strategy for the digital decade allows us to increase our resilience, reinforce our capacities to prevent, deter and respond to cyberattacks and advance a global, open and secure cyberspace. building on this strategy, we are reviewing the 2018 eu cyber defence policy framework, setting the political ambition for the eu’s cyber defence policy, making full use of available instruments, such as the permanent structures cooperation and the european defence fund. cyber defence will also be a key aspect of the strategy compass currently under development. as is stressed in the report, our key challenge is to develop and use capabilities in a collaborative approach. today, within the european defence agency we have a structured framework to support member states in collaborative capability development and research activities. this allows for enhanced interoperability and pooling of scarce national resources. the european security and defence college organises cyber training courses for military and civilian personnel from the eu institutions, the common security and defence policy (csdp) missions and operations and member states to strengthen their coordination. we also conduct exercises with ‘cyber’ included, notably the eu integrated resolve or the annual cyber diplomacy toolbox exercise. these exercises will help us to strengthen our common understanding of the procedures for mutual assistance and solidarity, as pointed out in the report. last month, the european union military committee approved the european union military vision and strategy on cyberspace as a domain of operations, which sets the framework to use cyberspace as a domain of operations in support of eu csdp military operations and missions. further responding to the need for more cooperation among national entities in charge of cyber defence, we have taken our first steps towards the establishment of a military computer emergency response teams network. as recommended in your report, the external action service also works together with the commission on the establishment of the joint cyber unit, bringing together all cyber communities, including cyber defence and diplomacy, to better coordinate eu action to prevent, deter and respond to cyberattacks. finally, the report also calls to strengthen our coordination and cooperation with nato in the framework of the joint declarations, which we do through our staff—level dialogues and by conducting cyber scenario—based discussions and exercises. in conclusion, we have made considerable progress in the past few years on cyber defence. at the same time, the ongoing work on the strategic compass and the review of our framework for cyber defence policy will allow us to further strengthen member states’ capabilities and cooperation in this domain in view of a true eu cyber defence policy. i thank you very much for the report and i look forward to this discussion.
for the renew group. madam president, i have just returned from athens from a visit to the european cybersecurity agency. and if i didn't know it before, i know it now: we are in the middle of a cyber war, and that's why cyber security, of course, also needs to be at the top of the agenda, and that's why it's welcome that we're discussing it today. ursula von der leyen herself said so in her state of the union address. this is an important step to strengthen european cooperation on cybersecurity, but more needs to be done. sharing knowledge and working more closely together cannot do it alone. new tools are needed to tackle cyber threats. the eu needs to be able to adopt common sanctions. one of my colleagues said earlier: we need sanctions, individual member states, but we need joint action, joint sanctions. when member states are repeatedly exposed to cyberattacks by specific hacker groups, even from hostile states, we need to be able to respond as a whole. i really hope that this debate will lead to a new recognition of this fact: that there is a need for joint action in cyberspace too.
respected chairman, respected colleagues, respected citizens, when we talk about cyber or internet security we should have something that we have to ban. today, all social networks, all e-mail services, all internet sales, all applications for citizen communication, on which data of almost all citizens of the european union are stored, on which their bank accounts, their bank cards are stored, are owned by companies from the united states. what can we defend when we don't have that data at all? do china, russia, india use these services? of course you didn't. they have their own e-mail services, their own online stores, their own apps. we can't seriously talk about internet security and cybersecurity without having all these networks and applications developed in the european union.
the commission's communication on the fight against cybercrime, which was adopted by the council on 14 december, sets out the main challenges facing the union in the field of cybercrime, including the need to address the challenges of cybercrime and to ensure that the union is able to respond to cybercrime effectively. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's cybersecurity policy and to monitor the implementation of the union's cybersecurity policy. the union's response to the crisis in the sahel needs to be coordinated, including joint support capacities of member states, and enhanced cooperation based on the exchange of information on best practices and exercises. it is of strategic importance to increase investment in cyber defence capabilities to enhance the resilience of the eu and member states' strategic capacities, in particular through the digital europe and horizon europe programmes. it is particularly important to emphasise that cyber defence has both a military and a civilian dimension and requires stronger cooperation at european level in both aspects. this is a problem that member states, even the largest, cannot solve alone and requires joint european action. this is just one of the themes that shows that the european union simply needs to be profiled as a relevant geopolitical player, which unfortunately, and i think we're all aware of that, is not the case at the moment. there is no other way to protect the european way of life as we know it today.
the tourism sector plays a very important role in the economy and society of the european union. in 2019, it generated 10% of total gdp and 27 million jobs in as many as three million businesses. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the pandemic on the tourism sector in the union, in particular by assessing the impact of the pandemic on the tourism sector in the union. in some member states, such as croatia, where i come from, the contribution of tourism and related industries is as high as 20% of gdp. so they're much more economically affected by this pandemic than others. i believe that the union and its member states, such as croatia, acted in the right way in the crisis. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary was limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the infrastructure. many jobs were saved and serious long-term consequences for the economy were averted. also, i welcome the introduction of covid certification this summer. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration, in particular by ensuring that the union's asylum policy is fully implemented. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the common fisheries policy, as set out in the annex to commission decision c (2013) 4494 of 12 december 2013 on the application of the landing obligation in the context of the management of the common fisheries policy (oj l 347, 20.12.2013, p. finally, i would point out that this crisis has shown the importance of tourism for the european way of life, but also its obvious vulnerability. we need to work on long-term solutions, including financial resources, to make the tourism sector as resilient as possible to future crises that are inevitable.
dear chairman, commissioner breton, dear colleagues, i come from the most touristic region of the 2021 mediterranean tourism championship, from istria in croatia. however, although this year has been, i would say better than expected, although this season has been really good, it has of course not solved serious problems in this sector. namely, one excellent season, we all know, cannot compensate for the accumulated financial losses of the previous period, and the other huge problem that is occurring in croatia, but also in the whole of europe, is the lack of quality workforce in this sector. that is why i am asking the commission to tackle the financial and human resources problems in this sector, but i am also appealing to all member states, to all governments, to work on this in the short and long term because although we are a tourist country, year after year fewer and fewer young people are entering these universities and going into these professions. it's not their problem. this is our problem, and we need to work on it together.
the fundamental question that is asked about social media is this: are social media the playground of corporations, individuals, owners, billionaires, or are they a public good? as social networks have evolved over the last 15 years and spread to every corner of the world where there is an internet, they felt at one point that they were powerful enough to not just monitor processes, as media, but to engage in processes and create them themselves. and then it stopped being just business, and business and social media, or social platforms, became involved in the political process. they've gone into politics, so to speak. it's all politics now, or geopolitics, because their influence is capillary and global. these corporations are richer than individual states, and the individuals behind them are richer than a billion people combined - and there is no end in sight. a cartel was created, an undemocratic big tech cartel. to make matters worse, the covid crisis has strengthened that oligarchy. the states must say: enough! social networks need to be brought into order and their power and influence limited. corporations must not eat away at freedom and democracy, censorship must be severely punished, they must not become the ministry of truth from orwell's books. different political views must be respected, to answer the question from the beginning: they must be a service to the citizens.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, restricting freedom of speech is a criminal offence, both in the republic of croatia and in the other countries of the european union. the right to determine the truth in modern and democratic states is exclusively vested in the courts. today, the truth-finding process on social media is left in the hands of shady organizations. by filing a criminal complaint against faktograf, gong and facebook and the persons responsible for the criminal act of restricting freedom of speech and public appearance under article 127 of the criminal code of the republic of croatia, i am fulfilling my civic duty. i promise that all those who have carried out censorship will be criminally prosecuted. i kept every promise i made, and i'm gonna keep this promise, even if it takes 20 years or more.
dear chairman, commissioner, colleagues, in parallel with the outbreak of the pandemic, the world has been hit by an infodemia, a flood of false information placed in order to create panic among citizens. unfortunately, we are witnessing a systematic campaign against vaccination on a daily basis, carried out on social media, through the dissemination of false information, which directly affects the number of vaccinated and those who are sick. knowing that vaccination is the best public health weapon against covid-19, we need to create protocols that will allow us to filter out the inaccurate and remove illegal content from social networks. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the rules on the protection of personal data in the context of the application of the rules on the protection of personal data. it is a profound problem, which involves criminal law, media law, relations with third countries, but also the education sector, which must shape a new generation that will be able to distinguish between accurate information and misinformation, something that would be welcome to some of our colleagues here. and of course, we have to prevent censorship and the use of social media to promote one ideological option.
mr president, commissioner simson, ladies and gentlemen, europe is at a turning point - an energy turning point - because it can't go on like this. i say europe, not the member states, because it is clear that energy and the wildness of energy prices is a european issue, not just a member state issue. that is why we need european measures to prevent citizens from becoming energy poor and not having to turn on the heating, or to prevent the economy from becoming uncompetitive in the large global market due to the wildly rising energy prices. and don't expect the economy and citizens to go out of their way to invest in alternative energy or to save electricity. they won't because they don't have the resources. that is why they need european help, why they need help from the member states in their national recovery plans and why we need to adopt an action plan urgently. commissioner, please do it now so that clean, green and cheap energy is not just a dead letter on paper but a very concrete action.
the commission's communication on the implementation of the national action plan for the fight against poverty and social exclusion (nap) is a key contribution to the implementation of the national action plan for the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it is particularly important, however, that this mechanism should pay unprecedented attention to rural areas, islands, outermost regions and regions facing serious and persistent demographic problems, in pursuit of what i myself have advocated through my work in this parliament. in this way, we are enabling convergence, that is, reducing the development gap between the different parts of the eu, which is of strategic importance to us. investment needs to be channelled into the sectors that have been hit hardest by this crisis, such as the health and transport sectors, the tourism sector that we discussed yesterday as well as the service industries and into small and medium-sized enterprises to help them recover their jobs. in addition, it is crucial to channel as much resources as possible into science and innovation. our aim is not to enable the creation of low-paid, low-productivity jobs which unfortunately dominate in some member states, but to create a technologically advanced, high-wage economy that can compete on the global market. to achieve all this, the mechanism's resources must be used for real reforms, not for filling budget gaps. it is now crucial that the adoption of implementation and plans is strictly monitored, but that this monitoring is really aimed at genuine monitoring of respect for the law and the rule of law, and not at ideological and political calculations at european and national level. it is crucial that we do all this to achieve our goal of economic recovery and a better life for all european citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me just begin by saying that, in a more general way, i think we should be proud, as european institutions, of the fact that we are now fully underway with this plan, this recovery initiative. we have approved 23 out of 27 plans, and this is happening – paradoxically, from my point of view – at the right moment. of course, the decision process was not a short one. the first commission proposal came in may 2020, and then we had discussions with the council and co—legislation with the parliament. but the good thing is that pre-financing began to flow in july and august, exactly at the moment when the recovery was – at least if we look at growth rates – underway. this means that we know that these funds will not be used mainly for emergency purposes. for these purposes, the national reactions were already there, also thanks to the decisions taken by the ecb and the european institutions in 2020. these funds will be used to give an added value to encourage reforms and investments and to strengthen our transitions – the green transition, the digital transition – and the resilience of our societies. this is only to say that this package is very important and, i think, overall it is well perceived by citizens and, for sure, well perceived by financial markets. the fact that we have these common initiatives contributed to stability in financial markets – of course, with the ecb intervention – and extraordinary programmes. so a certain pride, i think, is fully justified, because it was not obvious that this unprecedented instrument would have been fully in practice now, and it is. we also have very positive experiences with another part of this recovery strategy. that was the sure mechanism, with 19 member states using these loans and supporting more than 30 million european workers with short—time work schemes or similar. so i think this is something that had a positive impact in our economies, of course together with the national reactions, and it is not by chance that we had, at least in the second quarter, a very strong rebound, even stronger than happened in the second quarter in china and in the us, and we also still have a good perspective for the third quarter, despite difficulties that are emerging, as you know, in supply chains and in energy prices. but overall, this recovery is underway and, when we talk about the recovery and resilience facility, i think we should consider this. of course, we are not yet out of the woods, for several reasons, and the attention of the parliament for the further implementation of the plan and for the national plans that are still missing from the point of view of the commission assessment is fully justified, and this attention will continue in the next months in the implementation phase. we will begin to receive the first requests for disbursement based not on the pre-financing but on the performance milestones and targets reached, and this will also be very challenging for the commission and in our dialogue. our dialogue is structured in a rather formal way, which we discussed a lot when we introduced the new regulation and legislation. we are trying to do our best to use this structural dialogue in the best way possible, with our regular exchanges with commissioners and with the regular exchanges with the european parliament working group. a week ago, we had the 14th meeting of this european parliament working group with the commission services that are working on the assessment of the remaining plans. so i think that the parliament is informed according to the methodology that we agreed for this kind of structural dialogue about the plans. let me add only a couple of remarks. first, all plans are essential. we consider that 27 plans are important for the full deployment of the facility – including, of course, the two that we have not yet received, from bulgaria and the netherlands ,for reasons linked to the internal situation of these two countries. but i can assure you that we are in contact with the authorities of these two countries to understand and make possible the swift presentation of these plans when the political decision is taken. by the way, we can’t substitute the commission in this political decision; that has to be taken by national governments, stable or caretaking or whatever. but not by the commission. as you know, regarding the plans that were submitted and are pending, the assessment is underway. you know that the contacts are continuous. there is no way that there is a blackout in contacts with the authorities of these three countries, and in particular with the polish and hungarian authorities. we are continuing our dialogue with these authorities, and of course we consider the rule of law dimension to be very important. again, here the rule of law dimension is pertinent and connected to our regulation for the rrf, because we also have our work streams as european institutions – the parliament, the commission – to deal with rule-of-law issues in all 27 member states, but we have very precise and concrete commitments in the rrf regulation connected to the rule of law. in particular, the anchor of the rrf regulation relates to the country—specific recommendations, as you know, including for measures on the rule of law. so, while respecting the principle that the plans represent a reform agenda of the country – the principle of ownership that i recalled in my introductory remarks – we have insisted on reforms to address rule-of-law, country-specific recommendations. these country—specific recommendations connected to the rule of law are, in particular, those that have a bearing on the protection of the financial interests of the union. these are not all the issues we have which are connected to the rule of law. we have – i repeat – several other parallel work streams to discuss this with all member states. but for those that are connected to country—specific recommendations and so to the protection of the financial interests of the union, the commitments on these issues are essential to reach our agreement on the rrf. i hope that this distinction is clear and doesn’t give room for any idea of the commission using double standards, because we are assessing what is in the country—specific recommendations and we are doing this for all member states, but without double standards and also without significant exceptions. of course we have flexibility, but we can’t accept the idea that there are some country-specific recommendations that cannot be observed in the regulation and in our assessment. this is the state of play. i think that we are continuing to cooperate and to dialogue to reach an agreement, but to reach an agreement, we have to respect this regulation.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism is enabling the issuance of ngeu debt with a reasonably well functioning scheme evaluation and monitoring procedure. this parliament introduced democratic conditionality into the mrr regulation, and it is this conditionality that is making it possible to put pressure on the governments of poland and hungary to respect the rule of law. hungary and poland presented their plans in may. they've asked for extensions, which have expired. at least part of these delays are related to respect for the rule of law. we are talking about the fight against corruption, the need for changes in the public procurement system, transparency in information on final recipients, non-discrimination in access to funds and even something that seems incredible: the acceptance of the primacy of european law. given the background and the unwillingness of these governments to play by the rules, it is difficult to think of approving the plans. we ask the commission to keep up the pressure. this instrument will not only help us to finance recovery, but also to uphold the principles of the rule of law in the union.
in writing. mr president, the rule of law is one of the eu's core principles, which is intrinsically linked to all eu action. all the member states have also committed themselves to this principle when they joined. nextgeneu is no exception to this. the recovery plans for hungary and poland have been flawed and their adoption has already had to be postponed. in this context, the eu has a legitimate interest in ensuring that its funds are not misused. it is good that the commission has been so attentive to the plans of the countries. the threat is that if the plans are approved, the money will end up somewhere else entirely. for now, it is clear that countries that flout the rule of law should not be rewarded with eu citizens' money, especially when it is not certain that they will end up in the corruption of those in power instead of recovering from the corona pandemic. the commission must not yield to pressure from these countries but must stand firmly behind the rule of law. eu funding should not be granted to countries that violate the eu's common core values.
the next item is the report by mrs danuta maria hübner on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the annual report on the banking union 2020 (2020/2122 ((ini)) (a9-0256/2021).
rapporteur. – madam president, the banking union annual report 2020 assesses the situation in the european banking sector and effectiveness of the regulatory measures already in place. it calls for action on missing elements of the system but also considers how unfinished architecture undermines the functionality of the already-existing european banking union framework. the focus of regulators, supervisors, central banks, but also legislators, has been on ensuring, on the one hand, the resilience of the banking sector, and on the other, its contribution to the recovery and growth of the real economy. overall, most european banks have been weathering the crisis well. the two pillars of the banking union, the single supervisory and the resolution mechanism, as well as the robust regulatory framework put in place following the global financial crisis, have made the banking sector better prepared and more resilient to shocks. the temporary regulatory and supervisory relief granted to banks and the capital conservation practices that were applied increased the banks’ capacity to withstand the shock and continue financing the economy. indeed, one can say that this time around, banks could have been considered as being part of the solution and not a part of the problem. however, in spite of economic policy response with a concerted implementation of fiscal, monetary and prudential measures on an unprecedented scale, economic uncertainty is not gone. european supervisors diligently keep monitoring the situation, especially as public support, including for credit institutions, will be gradually subsiding. within the single market, as recovery from the impact of covid proceeds, enhanced integration and consolidation in the banking sector becomes all the more important. unfortunately, cross-border activity and banks’ appetite to consolidate have remained low. actually, since the creation of the banking union, the degree of cross-border exposures of banks has not increased. a centralisation of tools and funding at eu level would reduce fragmentation and increase the credibility of the overall banking union, thereby further enhancing financial stability. banking union should provide a fully-fledged framework, with the rules facilitating the free movement of liquidity and capital across the union, making cross-border activity easier for all banks by bringing down the regulatory obstacles that still impede the emergence of a true single market for financial services in the union. the lack of a harmonised bank insolvency framework poses challenges to the banking union, leading in particular to the inconsistent application of the resolution regime in different member states. completing banking union is fundamental for the long-term sustainability of the system. in absence of a common deposit insurance scheme, capital and liquidity remain largely fragmented in individual member states, as banks are reluctant to move liquidity. a proper risk assessment and capital allocation within the union and within european cross-border banking groups needs the foundation of a common deposit insurance scheme. common standards and solid safeguards for large-scale depositors, as well as ensuring the resolvability of cross-border groups, would provide confidence in the markets. this is particularly needed in the post-pandemic context, where different speeds of recovery are observed across the union. the european commission has been reviewing the bank crisis management and deposit insurance framework. the review has been focused on addressing deficiencies in the current framework, in particular related to filling the gap between the resolution framework at european level and national solvency procedures. this is an important concern in relation to small and medium-sized banks, which play an important role in financing the european economy. a complete banking union, as well as increased cross-border activity and consolidation, would allow european banks to grow inside the single market and benefit from economies of scale, reducing their costs and thus improving their competitiveness on a global level. the eurogroup’s current efforts to agree on a step-by-step and time-bound work plan on the issues that need to be resolved in order to complete the banking union are still inconclusive. my understanding is that completing the banking union remains a priority for the european commission, as it is for this house – as the report makes clear. unlocking the potential for fully-integrated banking union would allow us to better respond to needs and expectations of the citizens and emerge stronger globally. i also trust that a complete banking union would provide an important boost to the capital markets union. the european parliament remains committed to enhance its efforts and act together with the council and with the european commission in reaching an agreement on the remaining issues in the european banking sector, an important contributor to economic and social development. and i’d like to use this opportunity to thank all the colleagues with whom we worked together on this report for their commitment, but also for their ambition.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, firstly, my appreciation for the work of our rapporteur, madam hübner, and for her speech on this report on banking union. this is parliament’s sixth report on completing the banking union and it shows the commitment of this parliament to the banking union, and we in the commission appreciate that support and commitment. but the fact that we are discussing this sixth report calling for more progress also shows how difficult it has been to achieve this shared objective and the need for all of us – commission, council, member states, parliament – to do much more. of course, the banking union arose out of the global financial crisis and the eurozone debt crisis. we needed to strengthen the euro and the economic and monetary union. the crisis meant that we found the political will to make difficult decisions and undertake ambitious solutions. but completing banking union is becoming harder as time passes and memories of the banking crisis fade. the sense of urgency to complete the banking union has withered away, and we have experienced political stalemate over the last two years. and we have failed to make the case to people less familiar with the sometimes overly technical discussions on banking union. i think we need to return to fundamentals and talk and explain to citizens why the banking union matters, and that might help us move forward and unlock the blockages. i believe that this parliament has a key role to play here in bringing the discussion to citizens and businesses. a banking union means a larger market, and that creates more opportunities for economies of scale, as the rapporteur pointed to. for europeans, it would mean they can trust that their deposits are equally treated if their banks fail, no matter where they are in the european union. and it means that we, as policy-makers, are living up to our promises to do all we can to prevent another banking crisis, with the impact that would have on people’s lives and livelihoods – not to mention on taxpayer money. so your report rightly renews the call for increased efforts to achieve our goals, and i call on you to help us communicate with citizens about the importance of completing this work and therefore put pressure on all of us to do much more. when it comes to how we manage failing banks, i know parliament’s support for improving the existing framework. we should prioritise transferring the viable parts of a failing bank to another bank and facilitate the exit from the market of non-viable banks. we can protect financial stability better if we ensure that consumers do not experience significant changes to the services they use. where the financial buffers of a failing bank are insufficient, using taxpayers’ money may sometimes appear as the easiest option – but the banking union is based on using other measures as a first option. we should rely more on the industry’s own safety nets, such as resolution funds and deposit guarantee funds. banks need enough liquidity in resolution, and the banking union needs to provide such a mechanism. moving to the european deposit insurance scheme: if we want every euro deposited to have the same value, we need to grant it the same level of protection through a common deposit insurance scheme. right now, deposit protection is only national. common safety nets could deliver more resilience more efficiently and make national schemes less vulnerable to large local shocks. moreover, it would encourage deeper market integration, which will let european banks grow, becoming more resilient and able to compete internationally. the completion of banking union would underpin a resilient banking sector, a sector that is undergoing transformation due to digitalisation and increased competition from fintechs. banking union would increase citizens’ trust in the system. we need a strong and resilient economic and monetary union, and we need to boost our efforts to complete banking union, and we need to explain why finishing our work is so important. i look forward to hearing your contributions in this important debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, firstly, i would like to thank the rapporteur, my colleague danuta hübner, for our excellent cooperation in drafting this report. the banking union has been one of our key achievements since the financial crisis in 2008. the aim, though, of this annual report is to assess the state of play and functioning of its three pillars: the single supervisory mechanism, the single resolution mechanism and the third one, the european deposit insurance scheme (edis), regrettably not yet implemented. as a result of these positive reforms, we have a better capitalised, less leveraged banking sector. regarding the current crisis, we praise the immediate response and the temporary relief measures to contain economic damage, and we call for a gradual shift from pandemic relief to recovery support tools. as the s&d group, we ask for a well—regulated banking sector that can provide financing to the real economy during the post—covid recovery, secure financial stability, and guarantee high levels of protection for retail depositors. unfortunately, though, the lack of political will regarding the establishment of the indispensable third pillar is a real deficiency of the banking union, but also a moral mistrust to the fair functioning of the eu as a whole. in this report, we stress the importance of depositors across the banking union enjoying the same level of protection regardless of their bank location. and we call on the commission to take further steps to relaunch the negotiations on the edis through a roadmap-based work plan. at the same time, we call on the council to a firm commitment towards an agreement, despite the disappointment of the june council meeting. lastly, this report underlines the importance of protecting consumer rights against abusive contract terms and practices employed by banks, and cautions the commission to scrutinise consumer contracts to ensure the effective implementation by all member states of the unfair contract terms directive, using all means available.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this annual report is overall balanced when it talks about sustainable finance and taxonomy, banking crisis monitoring, gender balance and implementation of the anti-money laundering directive, as well as the effects on large-scale sales of non-performing loans. however, we think it is weak or unambitious on safeguards for savers and we have serious concerns about both the rules and the capital requirements when they should not reflect risk. one final point on the subject of access to credit: in the geographical areas with the greatest backwardness, which are considered a priority in the recovery and resilience mechanism, the banking sector is virtually absent, making it virtually impossible to finance the real economy. extraordinary measures are therefore needed to finance the recovery and to encourage lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in the geographical areas considered to be at the greatest risk.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. in the eu, the cost of bank bailouts in the wake of the great financial crisis was something like 1.7 trillion euros, and at that time it was sworn to secrecy that taxpayers would never again be asked to bail out the monstrous gambling and mega-banks. that was the birth of the banking union, and since then much water has flowed down the rivers of europe. but not much has happened, because a decade later, we still have megabanks that are too big and too complex to fail. the core problem of banks being too big to fail was not addressed. on the contrary, the convergence of banking regulation across the eu is actually facilitating the concentration and interconnection of the banking sector. however, what we need to stabilize the banking sector and put it at the service of society is a strict separation of investment banking and investment banking. the continuing lax equity ratios are completely inadequate. the eu's resolution fund is more of a symbolic measure than an effective means of effectively responding to a systemic banking crisis. i welcome the initiative to better regulate the shadow banking sector. i also support the call to speed up the fight against money laundering. however, i cannot support the report as a whole, because it unfortunately ignores the massive shortcomings in the architecture of the banking union, so that in the end the taxpayers have to pay the price.
dear chairwoman, in the last year, we have seen unprecedented debt growth in europe, with the ratio of government debt to gdp rising from 77.5 at the end of 2019 to 97 at the end of 2020, while in the eurozone it rose from 83.9 to an incredible 98 percent. for both of these areas, this is the largest annual increase in debt recorded, but also the largest since records began. the public debt of the member states, on the other hand, exceeded eur 12 trillion, compared with eur 5 trillion in 2000. in this latest crisis, the eu issued a common bond for the first time to save the european political project and the drowning of many countries in debt. when interest rates start rising again, which is inevitable, the first ones to be in big trouble will be the most indebted countries, of which the worst position is the great italian economy, which will not be able to service even its old debts, let alone its shares in the new common bonds. ten years ago, the euro crisis showed that countries outside the eurozone were far more successful, and we can expect the same now.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate danuta hübner, costas mavrides and the other alternative rapporteurs for negotiating a much-needed report on banking union. it is as necessary as it is essential after the blockages we have seen in recent months in the council, in the eurogroup, which have been unable even to put a road map, a road, a guide for the coming years in black and white. and so the fact that parliament has a position - perhaps not quite as bold as some of us would like on certain points, but a clear position of defence, of insisting on the need to push forward banking union - i think is a very important symptom of the responsibility of this house and also of the support that this house is giving to the european commission to move forward with banking union. but while this is true, it is also true that we cannot blame the difficulties solely on the eurogroup or the council, because - as has already been said here - we have been paralysed for years in the negotiation of european deposit insurance and it is a paralysis for which we are responsible, undoubtedly some more than others. but i would also like to take this opportunity to demand, to ask, to call on those who are making it difficult for this negotiation to open the door. because we're in a complicated situation. it is true that we have got through this crisis without banking crises, thanks also to the capital requirements, to the basle regulation, which we need to strengthen in the coming months, but it is true that the institutional framework of our banking sector remains unstable. and we expect the commission to present a new crisis management framework in the coming months. there's things to do there. the report, i think, points very clearly to what we have to deal with and we hope that the commission will do so. but it is also important to recognize that for the commission to go on, this parliament has to support it, and this report on the banking union supports it, but we need to deal with deposit insurance now.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the banking union is the constant sea serpent of european politics. today, you claim to be monitoring the hyper-concentration of a risk, when it is already out of control. the segregation of markets, the separation of risks and the diversity of pricing and control models are conditions for security. interdependence and concentration increase systemic risk, especially when they link heterogeneous markets, as european national markets still do. but the principle is based on a system that, once the taxpayer is laundered, obliges savers, depositors and companies to pay the bill to save the banks' speculative activities. we already know that these same banks are exposed to multiple bubbles that may burst tomorrow, due to the pandemic and the fact that banks have not wanted to learn the necessary lessons from previous bankruptcies. it is enough to see the demands for deregulation demanded by the banking lobby at the height of the covid-19 period, where we still find very risky securitization activities, the same ones that led to the bankruptcy of lehman brothers and the global explosion of 2008. we'll take the same ones and start again. the sum of weaknesses has never been a strength. the key is not risk pooling, but risk redistribution and decentralisation. this is the role of the nation state we wish to call our own. you have built a banking union by leaving the protection of savers to the last of your concerns. we believe that it is by taking strong regulatory measures at national level that we will be able to protect savers and depositors, who are our main concern.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the text thus supports the bank's self-assessment of climate change risks. since when has climate change been part of the monetary mandate of a central bank, let alone the banking sector? we fear that reckless allocation of green money will lead to green bubbles. we're blowing enough bubbles already, like the housing market. but the most striking concern is that no mention is made of inflationary risks and the delay in necessary reforms in some member states. instead, a common european deposit guarantee scheme (edis) is still high on the agenda. we are against this. each member state is responsible for its own deposit guarantee scheme. the netherlands has rescued its own banks and is not obliged to assume the risks of banks in other member states. in short, there are too many problems for us to support this annual report.
the report welcomes the entry of the republic of croatia into the euro area. the main industry of the republic of croatia has become the sending of money of croatian workers and emigrants from abroad. this is what has brought the once highly developed industrial nation of eastern europe to its knees. the introduction of the euro and the surrender of monetary sovereignty without holding a referendum and determining the will of the citizens can only be compared to pavelić's surrender of sovereignty over dalmatia to the italians. due to the fact that about 3.2 million croatian expats today live and work abroad, while in croatia there are currently only 3.8 million inhabitants. almost all of croatia lives outside of croatia. we can also give up the croatian language because it will be more practical.
dear chairman, vice chairman, commissioners, colleagues and colleagues. in the context of the report on the banking union, i would like to draw attention to the problem of permitted and tacit overruns that european citizens face. the commission notes that the bank of croatia has not provided any information on the amount of the overdraft facility. moreover, more than 95% of all overruns are silent ones, which are on average 30% more expensive than the permitted ones. unfortunately, consumers are not aware of these facts and therefore need to be better informed about the financial products they use. hnb's analysis therefore showed that the silent partnership financial instrument, which should be the exception, has become the rule. at the same time, consumers are exposed to the risk that credit institutions may claim the amount of the silent partnership overrun without being obliged to provide them with a revolving credit facility. in this sense, consumers are exposed to arbitrariness. it is therefore necessary to review european legislation to oblige banks to offer consumers the possibility of a repayment in instalments when they request the recovery of overdrafts. anything less would represent a disproportionate burden on citizens. in addition, stronger cooperation within the european system of central banks is needed to address this problem. so let me make a strong case from this platform once again for tackling the problem of overcapacity, which is vital for many european citizens, and call for this issue to be high on our priority list.
the covid-19 pandemic has reminded us that we need to better harness the potential and cooperation of border regions to enable growth and sustainable development and overcome the challenges these regions face. and this is especially important in the context of my country of origin, croatia, which is virtually an entire border region because of its shape. the proposal for this regulation attempted to do so, but was blocked in the council. at present, there are no adequate european legal provisions to remove legal and administrative obstacles along the borders, but only a few regional mechanisms such as the benelux union and the nordic council. i support the adoption of the regulation as the mechanism establishes a clear legal instrument for all internal borders of the member states, which allows for the removal of bottlenecks across the eu. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). i particularly welcome the fact that the mechanism offers border regions the opportunity to take the initiative themselves and to initiate dialogue and action on issues such as the construction of cross-border health infrastructure, something i am personally involved in here in parliament, the application of the legal framework for the provision of services and the operation of emergency services. we need to make it as easy as possible for citizens living and working in border regions to move and live together across borders. the crossborder healthcare opportunities, as well as the many interreg projects mentioned by mr arimont, are a positive example of successful crossborder cooperation and promote the harmonious economic, social and territorial development of the union as a whole. i therefore hereby call on the member states in the council which are blocking this mechanism to lift those blocks as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioners, colleagues, we still remember well the migration crisis of 2015, when millions of people arrived in the european union seeking international protection here. the fact is that the eu at that time did not have a sufficiently developed asylum system to respond successfully to the challenges faced by the member states. in the context of changing geopolitical circumstances in the world and with the prospect of increased pressure of migrants at the external borders of the union, it is essential to provide a common european response based on humanity and solidarity, but also responsibility. this means respecting european law and preventing illegal migration. europe will not solve all the world's problems by tolerating massive, illegal immigration on its soil. that should be clear to everyone. it is necessary to create a framework for cooperation with third countries in order to reduce the pressure at source, in particular in the mediterranean and south-east europe regions which are most exposed. this topic is extremely important to me as i come from croatia, the member state that protects the longest external border of the european union. in doing so, it underlines that croatia does so in full compliance with european and international law. in order to avoid any doubt in this regard, an independent mechanism for monitoring the conduct of police officers has been established. unfortunately, there has been a long history of ideologically motivated disinformation on this subject by some mps, and we heard that today. i hereby declare that no matter how many times you repeat a lie, it will not become the truth. the commission is also proposing to set up a european asylum support office to help the refugees in the eu to find a place in the eu.
madam president, we throw away nearly 100 million tons of food a year, while millions of people cannot afford a decent meal. we produce tons of food in intensive farms, while local farmers struggle to sell their produce. we're constantly pushing the limits of the environment, while wondering why we're having more and more fires or droughts. i think it's time to step out of this hypocrisy and accept that this farm-to-consumer strategy is not a fad, but an economic, climate and health necessity. we need to eat healthier, not more. we need to return agriculture to its natural environment, to environmentally friendly farms, while also taking advantage of technology. we need to support more real farmers and small local producers. we need to base future legislative proposals, commissioner, on serious impact studies and adapt future targets to the huge differences in the consumption of pesticides or antibiotics between member states.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, achieving the environmental sustainability of the food system is vital for the future of our societies, but it is also vital to do so without taking the economic sustainability of our primary sector for granted, it is also vital to do so by achieving these environmental objectives without provoking a social revolution among european farmers and livestock farmers. i therefore urge the european commission, like many other honourable members, to base its quantification of objectives on impact studies. for starters, one could listen to and read the report which the commission itself has kept hidden in a drawer for six months, and which in fact confirms that the farm-to-table strategy will do enormous damage to the economic sustainability of the european primary sector. in that connection, i would like to ask the commissioner a question: the future legislative proposals that the farm to table strategy may bring about in the coming months and years, will the commission bring them forward on a political basis only or will it bring them forward on the basis of impact studies and scientific data, and also by listening to european farmers and livestock farmers?
madam president, i would like to welcome the overall farm to fork strategy. while the targets are very challenging, i believe that, by and large, it can be achieved through modern science, smart and precision farming and the use of natural solutions, such as clover as a fertiliser. however, i am also concerned that the combined effect of the target within the strategy could lead to unintended consequences. i believe there is a need for a robust impact assessment, and i am very disappointed that previous impact assessments have not been taken on board. i am also concerned at the failure of the commission to publish the joint research centre (jrc) study. i believe this undermines confidence in the strategy. finally, the strategy must be invested in through the common agricultural policy (cap) and other funding as well to ensure the objectives are successful and, most of all, to ensure that the viability of family farming across europe is not undermined.
i come from croatia, a country where the agricultural paradox is on the scene. in the last eight years since croatia joined the european union, some 33 billion kuna or 4.4 billion euros in aid or subsidies have been paid to farmers, and production is lower than it was eight years ago. what does that mean, "i'm not"? so that means that the total production of agricultural products is not tracking subsidies and that something needs to change urgently, that we are not doing it right, that we are doing it wrong and wrong. that's why i see the 'field to table' strategy as a tool, i see it as a help, i see it as an opportunity for farmers and consumers, because in parallel with a healthy, organic agriculture, we need to develop a change in the behaviour of our consumers. not just the sixth motive for choosing an agricultural product on the shelf, the place of production, or health, but the first motive for buying that same product. so we all need to keep working on this together.
on behalf of the s&d club, i am very pleased to have the opportunity today to discuss our report on the situation of artists and cultural recovery in the european union. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament and the council with the information it needs to make the necessary decisions. the pandemic has caused a complete stagnation in the cultural and creative sector and, consequently, a worsening of the already precarious status and problematic working conditions of artists and cultural and creative workers. with this in mind, we have created a roadmap for the future and a list of concrete measures to revitalise the sector. let us remember that we are not just talking about the cultural and creative sector here, but we are talking about more than eight million people across europe who make, build, develop and carry this sector. and we can no longer allow a situation where these people are working and creating honestly and receiving either a miserable or no pay for their work and yet they do not have an adequate level of social security. in this respect, we expect and ask the commission to adopt without delay a common framework for working conditions and minimum standards for all eu countries in terms of contracts, social security, sickness and unemployment insurance, pension schemes, direct and indirect taxation. we regret, and above all we are disappointed, that the request which this house has sent to the member states to allocate two per cent of the budget for the recovery of culture has unfortunately not been respected in most countries. so we're looking for an appropriate response. we want to see from the european commission without delay data on the amounts and purpose of the recovery and resilience plan. i have stressed and i will not tire of repeating: without the recovery of culture there is no recovery of society, and to achieve this we need people who will be adequately paid and socially insured for their work, but also the means to achieve this. it is high time that the commission and the member states made this possible!
mr president, i can say quite frankly that the judgment of the polish court is extremely serious. without the primacy of european law, which is the result of the judgments of 1963 and 1964, there is no protection of the fundamental rights of europeans, no common legal understanding and therefore no european union. it's as simple as that and as serious as that. your government, mr prime minister, has entered a process of dissociating values and challenging the rule of law. and you have come here this morning to challenge the european union on the essentials, in this european parliament. but i say to you as chairman of the committee on regional development: the european union is not a window through which you can go to collect the structural funds. the union is a common law area which we are determined to defend and we are doing so for the polish people too.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached a critical juncture today between two ideas. there is the idea of brussels, of the united states of europe, and the idea of individual member states, of national sovereignty, and believe me, no one is going to back down. never has there been greater strife and discord in this house than there is today. unfortunately, there are more and more common policies, more and more common positions being adopted. on the other hand, brussels is increasingly interfering in matters which are the exclusive competence of the member states. there are too many irreconcilable differences that have built up over the years. the real problems, the real problems, started ten years ago, with the euro crisis, when a common monetary policy was introduced that took some member states out of the crisis and pushed others deeper into it. we remember the announcement of the introduction of a common foreign policy by the president of the commission, who is uncompromising, because of too many different points of view. let us also remember the question of kosovo. and while some member states already see kosovo in this organization, some don't even recognize it as existing. there are too many issues on which the membership is divided, and if a tipping point is reached, it will be the end of this organization.
mr. chairman, colleagues, citizens, poland has always been in the hearts of croatian citizens and we have always shared the same sense of law and justice. the fact is that those who today govern the european union want to impose their ideologies on all sovereign states and to this illegitimate end they use the institutions of the european union as a weapon. the sole purpose of this kafkaesque process is to overthrow the legally elected sovereign and install a puppet government. do not forget that the polish people have fought and won against all oppression, and against nazism, and against communism, and certainly will not bow their heads even now against these new forms of subjugation. the european union must become an equal community of sovereign states or its future is more than questionable. stop lecturing the proud polish people without any specific reason.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear vice— president, commissioner, colleagues, after several weeks of really intense talks, finally this week parliament will have the opportunity to vote on our official position on the european budget for 2022. the compromise i propose today adopted at the committee level is a comprehensive package which outlines shared priorities between political groups, but also between specialised committees here in the parliament and provides a european budget based on the actual needs of specific policy areas. i strongly believe that with this package we would manage to meet the expectations of the european citizens, which are understandably very high. already in the guidelines, the parliament defined clear political priorities for the budget to support the recovery, boost investments and lay the foundations for a more resilient union, something that we have been communicating throughout the whole budgetary process. having this in mind, we were disappointed by the council’s proposed cuts, notably in successful union programmes such as horizon, digital europe and life, at a time when we are making political declarations about the digital and green transitions. it would be a mistake also, and a great missed opportunity from the point of view of the parliament if we didn’t fully use the decommitments under article 15(3) of the financial regulation. furthermore, the budgetary process has been, obviously, impacted by several global developments which need to be taken into account. this certainly includes the crisis in afghanistan, as well as the european ambition in making vaccination against covid—19 accessible globally through the covax programme. the key element of our position is undoubtedly the restoration of the arbitrary cuts and the reinforcement of lines that have an added value for europeans, that have excellent implementation rates and also that have the operational capacity to absorb the additional appropriations. it is especially important to use additional appropriations in certain key areas, such as the following ones. first, supporting the driving force of the european recovery and economy: small and medium enterprises. secondly, reinforce future—oriented programmes in research, innovation and education with a special focus on youth and children. thirdly, to strengthen the european health union. and fourthly, to boost our efforts towards a digital, green and secure europe. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to also use this opportunity to really thank my colleagues, shadow meps from all political groups, as well as representatives of all specialised committees that participated in achieving this position. despite our differences, despite our different backgrounds and perspectives, we all understand that europe has to be more resilient and that recovery has to be tailored to support all sectors, all regions and all generations in europe. this is now the moment when we turn our political talk, our political declarations into tangible support to recovery, and this is the moment when we turn our commitment to preparing europe for a post—pandemic global environment and digital era, and also really reinforce it by concrete funding.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to say to minister drmaž and commissioner hahn that, after carefully listening to their interventions, i am left with a positive hope and also an impression that we can find common ground in the end on the number of issues since we really share the goals. however, there are obviously still elements on which we will have to work and on which parliament and the council are significantly apart. i see that we all agree on the fact that the needs are increasing, that they are much higher, that this moment was anticipated, and that, for some period of time, we really have had multiple crises going on. many of them were mentioned: covax, the afghan situation, having to deal with the syrian refugees and having to find common solutions. but we definitely need to adjust and it would be really irresponsible for us to try to ignore, and not to see, all these new and old emerging challenges that, in the end, we all agree are there. in this context, the parliament will also propose to fully reuse the decommitments in the field of research, as the unexpectedly high amount of decommitments in the last year was not part of the mff agreement. from our point of view, this is the amount that must not be lost, and we really do not see any good reason why we would waste this opportunity. to sum up, you heard specific emphasis by different political groups and by different specialised committees, but you also heard our one unified voice that europe really has to invest strongly in the recovery and resilience. we can work together within this house to agree on our stance, and to focus on the future, on recovery and on investments. with this strong position, i firmly believe that the parliament is now ready for conciliation and we are ready for that kind of discussion.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, we all agree that the right to a clean environment is a prerequisite for a healthy life of citizens. but what we all disagree on, and what we all have maybe slightly different views on, is how to do it. many citizens feel that the energy production and consumption story that we have and promote within the european union today is not very well-founded. we have a situation today where a man, a citizen of the european union, who uses a conventional 60 w light bulb is considered an enemy of humanity, and another person who drives an electric car that consumes 100 kw of the same electricity is considered a hero, so that even the poorest must help him in his right to buy that vehicle and donate 10,000 euros to him. that's hypocritical, and i don't know what else to say.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, it is only by investing in research and development that european industry will remain successful and competitive and that we will be able to respond to the great global challenges. i consider this approach to allocating eur 20 billion of horizon funding to joint projects between business, industry, research and science to tackle these very big challenges in the fields of transport, health, energy, the circular economy and digital technologies to be quite successful. such partnerships have proved to be a very good way of pooling know-how and eliminating duplication, and of course they improve access to cutting-edge research projects, especially for smaller players. i am particularly pleased that the negotiations have now succeeded in introducing reforms that can reduce administration and bureaucracy and that aim to increase the participation of women in science and also promote the participation of smes, especially since small enterprises have a lot of potential for innovation. these partnerships will enable them to participate in these good projects.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new 'horizon europe' programme is one of the european union's most ambitious projects, combining high objectives, innovative approaches and a wide field of cooperation and partnership. partnership is a core principle of the programme and the new proposal for nine institutionalised partnerships further develops this principle and becomes a tool for achieving a wide range of opportunities in the european union's research environment. partnerships bring together public and private actors to tackle some of the most pressing challenges facing a united europe. they allow the european commission and the member states to work with industry and smes on the green and digital transition. the proposal also contains the very important element of policy synergies and building a toolbox for complementarity and greater efficiency of the european union budget and maximising the impact of investments in key areas. it is essential that all member states are involved in the partnership and that the full coverage and participation and development of innovative research is achieved.
madam president, ‘what is not defined cannot be measured. what is not measured cannot be improved.’ this quote by a renowned mathematician should be kept in mind by everyone who wants to work on the european twin transition. if we want to improve our wind turbines or energy efficiency, we need precise measurements of their performance. if we want europe to be ahead of the curve in green and digital policies in 10 years’ time, we must measure and improve our r&d and knowledge industry today. this is why the partnership on metrology is an enabling step to do exactly that: to improve europe’s competitiveness and capacity to innovate. we want to ensure that qualified specialists in universities, research centres and the private sector are all involved. i’m very glad that the epp group has managed to steer the negotiations towards such a successful end. that is why i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work.
i am sure, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that the creation of joint ventures under horizon europe will play an absolutely crucial role in strengthening the european union's research and innovation capacity. these public-private partnerships are strategically important for achieving innovation targets by 2030, such as the development of artificial intelligence or e-health. we know that horizon is the largest and most funded programme in this programme period and i believe it is also a crucial programme for european leadership in the development of new technologies in line with our industrial strategy. my dear fellow, europe has unfortunately failed to create technological giants. too few young companies grow into big, successful r&amp;d companies, unfortunately. but that's why close collaboration between the public and private sectors must and will enable companies to be sustainable and competitive in the global marketplace in the post-covid era.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the most important issue that the forthcoming european council will have to deal with is undoubtedly the high electricity prices in europe, which are on the verge of having a detrimental effect on the european economy. the numbers are shocking. in some member states, electricity prices are three times higher than they were a year ago. our duty now is to protect the industry and especially the consumers before the winter season. and here are some short-term actions that can be taken. first, aid, national, for energy poor families. secondly, aid to smes which are in a particularly difficult situation. and third, think longer term about how to deal with the crisis. but at the same time, we shouldn't blame the green deal, nor do we need individual decision-making. what we need is a european approach to deal with the immediate impact of the current crisis by implementing common measures and by introducing reform of the european union's energy market, including a collective agreement on gas supply prices in a concrete future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you want to debate the council meeting on 21 and 22 october, you cannot help but shed light on the burning issues that are now dominating europe. the first is the debt situation, which is becoming increasingly precarious - with 12 trillion in debt - and the second is the individual states, which are increasingly losing their grip, such as greece, with a debt ratio of 200% of gdp. and the criteria that would actually be necessary to bring in stability - the 3 percent new debt, 60 percent total debt - are forgotten. and what happens? that the attempt is being made to achieve debt unification by means of new funds, and that the ultimate consequence of debt unification is that net contributors such as my country of origin, austria, are being asked to contribute even more, and that this approach should be rejected because stability must be ensured in the countries themselves. the second important point is migration. we have a 40 percent increase in asylum applications compared to august last year. i welcome the fact that 12 countries in the european union have called for help in this area, and that the community should use its resources to secure the borders. it would be a good idea to protect europe's borders in a joint action and to finally implement the other thing, pushbacks, and not to oppose them. since 2014, there has been a european union regulation that allows for such referrals. if you continue to do nothing, if you continue to watch and the problem gets worse and worse, then you are leading europe into an ever-greater crisis. i ask you to wake up, to take action, to focus on those things which are important, which are essential for this europe.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rising energy prices, the very high energy prices, are high on the political agenda. the uncomfortable truth is that in the short term, we're gonna be up against the wall. we're on the russian gas pipeline and all we can hope for right now is a mild winter. it doesn't get much more cynical than that. i think it is worth asking why this self-proclaimed geopolitical commission did not see this crisis coming. the toolbox of possible measures proposed by the commission last week should temper the bitter pill a little. but these are ad hoc measures which have lost sight of the modal citizen a little too much. today, those who work and invest pay for the laughter of political clumsiness. a structural solution is necessary. the commission expects renewable energy to be of great benefit. but the elephant in the room, nuclear energy, is not mentioned. nuclear energy reduces co2, makes us less dependent on imports and provides greater security of supply. i am therefore pleased that at least ten member states are already calling for nuclear energy to be promoted as a sustainable investment.
madam president, people’s ability to power and warm their homes is a fundamental right – a right threatened by soaring energy prices. in ireland, there have been over 30 price hikes announced by suppliers this year. we have seen decisive action across europe to protect energy-poor households. the irish government must follow suit. the commission has outlined that the best long-term solution is the just energy transition. this transition must put communities and households at the centre of our energy policies. right now, our energy system still panders to corporate polluters. in ireland, our energy security is endangered by the government’s overindulgence of data centres. europe’s energy policy must prioritise people’s right to clean, affordable energy above corporate profits and market ideologies. there is nothing just about a transition that results in rising energy prices and the threat of power outages to families and workers. a true just transition must put people first, not corporations.
the debate today, madam president, is about preparing for the european council meeting, which will begin shortly, so it would be appropriate to discuss the problems of fundamental rights and democracy in the union and our citizens, not just outside the union. i was wondering if mrs. von der leyen might be a fan of the james bond series. there's a very famous title from '89, timothy dalton, that reminded me of the situation we have in europe today. what we, unfortunately, get with the covid passport is a license to infection, a license to spread. we have, unfortunately, more and more examples in practice, and there's more and more scientific evidence that shows that covid passport holders can indeed infect other people. so i can go to meetings, hospitals, people. the covid passport gives you a false sense of security, and that's a completely wrong approach. on the other hand, perfectly healthy people without passports are restricted in their constitutional rights and the conduct of their normal lives. enough of this segregation. so if the covid passport isn't here for health reasons, then why is it here? do not international ratified documents, such as the oviedo convention on biology and medicine, mean anything more about this home? the passport is illogical, unscientific, harmful and must be destroyed.
madam president, i was listening carefully to the council and commission statements on the programme and they have my endorsement, but let me mention three issues that deserve attention. they are from the area of the economy. first, i appreciate the long and competent statement of the commission president on energy, and we know what are the causes. despite of the fact that the current crisis, almost crisis, is caused by mostly external factors, i guess we should pay more attention to the ongoing transformation from a fossil-based fuel energy economy to more clean and sustainable. it’s obvious that natural gas will play a role and we should reflect it, in my opinion, we should better coordinate the capacities and reserves across the eu to be sure that we are more resistant and, if necessary, we should finance an increase of those capacities. second, on electricity. electricity does not respect borders. it respects the rule of physics. that’s why we need more coordination not just at the level of member states, but of the regions to make sure that we have sufficient capacities to provide the supply and also to be ready for the commissioning of resources. second, i hope that the council will clearly mandate the commission to go on with implementation of the far-reaching oecd tax agreement. this is a must and this is in our favour. last, but not least, in glasgow i guess we should not only present our goals, but we should make sure that others will join and others will take their fair share of effort to protect our planet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president charles michel is called upon to preside over a european council meeting which is opening in a very heavy atmosphere, as we had a taste of yesterday during the debate with the embarrassing show of polish prime minister morawiecki here in the chamber. but i would also like to recall the shameful actions of the slovenian prime minister janša in recent days, who, instead of honouring and respecting the institutions he is supposed to represent as president of the union, has attacked his fellow meps - including my political family of the socialists and democrats - and has called some meps 'soros' puppets', forcing president sassoli to intervene and demand respect. i would therefore like to express my full solidarity with my colleagues and kindly ask prime minister janša to spend less time on twitter and to put his presidency to work to respond to real and very urgent issues, such as the energy price emergency, which is eroding the purchasing power of european citizens every day and requires strong action, and the management of the pandemic, which in some countries is seeing dramatically rising numbers. we need a european summit that deals with real issues, not with the propaganda of the right-wing supremacists, and with leaders who are up to the task.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law requires equal treatment of all member states. it is now clear that the european commission does not apply the same criteria to all member states. and while only the sovereign governments of poland and hungary are called upon, the puppet government of the republic of croatia is looked upon with favor. the european court of justice ruled several years ago that croatian notaries public do not have the authority to make decisions on the eviction of croatian citizens and european citizens. croatian courts have not respected this decision for almost a decade. millions of foreclosure decisions were made in enforcement proceedings that cost tens and hundreds of times the principal. this has caused damage to croatian citizens worth more than one billion kuna. what has the european commission done about this? did she call the croatian puppet government? it's not a date.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, i didn't mean to speak about this today, but i feel obliged to start with the answers to the representatives sincic and kolakusic. unfortunately, it is not uncommon for this platform to be used in this way and for us to hear such completely baseless demagogic tirades from this platform. there's just not always room, and not much sense, to respond every time. the members of parliament use their mandate as they wish and i will ultimately defend their right to do so here in the european parliament, because i believe in freedom and because i believe in presidential democracy. at the same time, i think it's crucial to once again underscore and understand that there's a really dramatic difference between these two forms of political work. so, on the one hand, performance and dedicated serious work, exhibitionism and real impact on european documents, the hubris of destructiveness on the other hand and trying to find answers to some really difficult european questions. that is why the incomparable exclusivity and cooperation with those with whom you do not agree on everything, voting against aid to the member states and, on the other hand, ensuring a record package, but perhaps even more than all the impossibility of working together with anyone who is not convinced of some grandeur of your character and actions, on the one hand, and seeking real compromises for the interests of croatian and european citizens.
mr president, the ambitious paris climate accord has committed almost the entire world to reduce the increase of global temperatures in the next decades. with the recent earthquakes, fires and floods, we have experienced how unpredictable our planet can be. these are warning signals that we must change something. we are not the masters of nature. these catastrophes will only increase if we don’t stop global warming. in the recent committee on foreign affairs (afet) mission to greenland, i have personally witnessed the urgency to act now. the eu has taken a leading role with its green deal and the fit for 55 programme, and even the new european power house, through which we try to create a healthier, safer, more aesthetic and sustainable environment for future generations. we should work on energy diversification and independence. i welcome the dedication of the g7 to accelerate their efforts, ensuring that the largest global economies are engaging in a race towards climate neutrality. at the cop26 in glasgow, participants should take stock of the efforts undertaken and renew the consensus needed to preserve the planet.
mr president, commissioner, we welcome the global agreements of the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and this glasgow cop; these goals are linked to the nextgenerationeu funds, with which we aim to transform our mobility, our economy and our consumption habits and make progress in sustainability and resilience, but, with the same energy, we remember that these goals and principles are transformed into facts at the local level. there are strong regional alliances, such as the one chaired by the basque country, which offer commitment, work and leadership from the local level: they need recognition and real participation in the management of these tools. it would therefore be desirable for these summits to be more closely linked to local and regional participation and for the mechanism for local and regional participation laid down in the regulation governing the funds to be respected. is this therefore one of the measures which the commission will be advocating in order to ensure significant progress on cop26? i look forward to your answer, commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today it is the courts that are reminding governments of the commitments they have made to combat the climate crisis. today it is the international energy agency - and therefore not a bunch of environmentalists, radical chic extremists - that tells us that we need to radically change, in a total way, the energy sector and that there is no more room for fossil sources. today this european parliament is calling for yet another stop to fossil fuel subsidies ahead of the cop in glasgow. what about italy? the minister for ecological transition is doing everything to try to slow it down, calling it "a bloodbath", feeding a narrative of terror that scares citizens and businesses. it even extended the deadlines for the pitesai plan, allowing the resumption of drilling permits, in total contradiction to european and international recommendations. no more lies, because the transformation of our society into an ecological key, if led with courage, will bring enormous opportunities and jobs.
mr president, commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, on climate, the question is not to be pessimistic or optimistic, but realistic. are we going to listen to the scientists? are we going to listen to this disturbing truth? the success of this cop26 will not be based on words or promises, but on facts and tools to deliver on our commitments. so, what are we waiting for? what are you waiting for? we're overwhelmed by it. our planet, our people are being swept away by the same tsunami. an unstoppable apocalypse if we do not act now. we are at a tipping point: it is either action or death. and what do we propose? a series of measures dictated by economic interests. on transport - i am the chairman of the committee on transport - nothing is really being proposed. so, are we gonna wake up? cop26 is the last chance to sweep our front door, to make europe the front-runner in the climate battle. it must now put an end to fossil fuels, in particular, and also set an example of carbon neutrality. but i'm telling you, whatever happens in glasgow, there's gonna be a before and an after. history will remember those who show courage and ambition. but history will never forget those who are inaction and resignation.
mr president, the un climate summit in glasgow is just around the corner, and it is disappointing to hear that expectations for progress are low, even in the year when the effects of climate change are so apparent. we’ve seen floods, hurricanes, wildfires and killer heatwaves growing in frequency and intensity with spiralling impacts on economies and societies. the cost of adaptation in the future will far exceed the cost of action now. this is why the green transition is fundamental for our future economic development. the key word here is ‘transition’. this must be managed responsibly, but it cannot be used as a means to reduce ambition to serve short-term interests. too often, this is the case with national governments. the european union was critical in building the coalition needed to conclude the paris agreement in 2015, which i was honoured to attend on behalf of parliament. success in glasgow may again depend on eu leadership. we all took hope from the accomplishment in paris but, tragically, annual global greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise. at this point, we were supposed to come back and increase ambition. instead, we do not see the global political will for a variety of reasons. we’ve discussed at length the deepening energy crisis, and with hostility between the us and china, the two top greenhouse gas emitters, the eu must ensure it takes the lead in glasgow. europe must act, but europe must not act alone. the other big emitters must step up to the plate.
mr. chairman, it is clear that the glasgow conference is one of the last, if not the last, chance, the last chance to prevent a complete climate collapse, a climate catastrophe. i think we're all finally coming to terms with this, and i don't want to keep repeating the same thing over and over again, because as the most famous climate activist would say, "enough of the blah blah blah politics and the empty talk of all these politicians". we're talking big words, but the deeds are missing. i'll just take one example -- traffic. transport is, of course, the biggest climate problem for europe, which emits about 30% of co2, of which 30% to 72% is road transport, and the target was to achieve 10% renewable energy by 2020. right in that traffic. and we didn't get that. and then nothing. let's not do that again. so, no more blah blah blah, but realistic achievable goals and urgent financial assistance for them, especially in countries with lower gdp per capita, like croatia.
on behalf of the s&d club. dear president, commissioner, colleagues, i must tell you frankly that i am disappointed that we have to discuss this issue again in the european parliament today, not because i am tired of repeating things or because i think the subject is not important, but because i honestly, and obviously and naively, believed that the shameful decision on the de facto ban on abortion would change and that we would not explain to poland again what human rights are and what the european union is and is based on. we had a meeting yesterday with polish women activists who told us about their experience and i was shocked because not only are they almost completely denied access to medical care, but those who have bravely taken to the streets and rebelled against this are now exposed to death threats, violence and abuse. i can tell the women of poland that i admire their courage, their perseverance and their strength to fight against the ban on abortion, to speak, to shout and to stand in the streets defending what we have long won, and now they are being taken away. and i have to tell you, we are partly responsible for this in this house, as is the european commission, which is bravely hiding behind the arguments of national competence and constantly evading responsibility and sanctioning poland and the rest of the gang who think it's okay to take european money and in doing so spit all european values out. their winning formula is very primitive, but effective - the overpowering of the polish government and the impotence of the european institutions. so i ask you all and the commission: what are we going to do about this? and remember, if we don't act now and decisively, today it's poland, tomorrow it's another member state.
madam president, preventing illegal migration, one of the most profitable criminal activities, but also a means of insidious pressure on europe, is extremely demanding. and that is why i begin tonight with a great thank you and recognition to all the police officers and policemen who will again this night in different terrains and different weather conditions across the european borders once again go out into the unknown and crack down on organized networks of people smugglers. at the same time, it is absolutely clear: in a well-ordered europe, there is no place for violence against migrants, and any individual violation of human rights, especially those of the most vulnerable, is completely unacceptable. ladies and gentlemen, with a modernised police force and no barbed wire, croatia is effectively fulfilling its legal obligation and duty to protect the national and european borders. responsibly and lawfully, and with independent oversight of border control, a single mechanism that was the first to be introduced in the union. european law establishes an unequivocal obligation for border patrols, prevention and deterrence, and the european court of human rights has confirmed that there is no place for violations of direct returns in the case of emergency and illegal crossings. we urgently need a common european agreement in which the policy of preventing illegal migration has no alternative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have been hearing for more than a decade that the european union wants to expand into the western balkans. and we just listen and, in fact, nothing more than that. unfortunately, we haven't moved much since the beginning. it seems that the european union is in no hurry at all and there are always new priorities, and new, and new, but by god, the countries in the region are not sweating their way through the work. they know what they have to do, they know the reforms, but there's no hurry. so while the european union pretends that enlargement as soon as possible is one of the priorities of the european union, the countries of the region say that their cosmetic changes are fundamental reforms. of course they are not, and the instability, dear colleagues, is growing, and growing, and very, very dangerously growing. i'm afraid it is. so let us finally realise that we need each other and let us put an end to this unfortunate status quo as soon as possible, because there is no strong union without enlargement to the western balkans, but there is no stable, i repeat, stable and prosperous western balkans without its full integration into the european union. dear members, it is time for action, for concrete action and concrete deeds to bring these countries into the european union without a penny in the pocket, without calculations, without delay. let us move, let us talk, let us act, but not to go through another decade in this status quo because this is our current neighbourhood today, our backyard that we are very interested in what it will be because we too depend on this neighbourhood and it must become our common european home tomorrow.
mr president, the process of enlargement to the western balkans is symptomatic of the democratic deficit of the european union. 59% of the french are opposed to these new accessions. the figures for other member states, such as germany and austria, are in line. this massive rejection contrasts with the apparent success of the european institutions. the president of the commission, for example, said at the summit in question today that the balkans were already part of the european union. the democratic aberration is also present in the social and economic spheres. firstly, because with albania, kosovo and bosnia-herzegovina, excluding the republic of serbia, the union would for the first time integrate into its fold the majority muslim states and, above all, those won by radical islam. in fact, the region has become the most dangerous place in europe for jihadists returning from syria or iraq. states such as bosnia and herzegovina and north macedonia have even publicly and voluntarily repatriated some of them. moreover, while the union has lost a major net contributor and one of its economic engines with brexit, these countries are clearly behind in this area. our industries will inevitably suffer from increased competition, at least in terms of wages and social conditions. albania has the lowest monthly minimum wage in europe. the textile sector, which is beginning a timid renaissance in my region of the grand est, will soon be swept away by this massive dumping. the commission has even repudiated its own principles. the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the eu's external borders to include the eu's external borders is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the enlargement process continues today, even as tensions are high in the balkans over the serbs in kosovo, the orthodox church in montenegro and the differences between north macedonians and bulgarians. in short, this foolish project confirms the inevitable decline of the european union. the decline is all the more glaring in view of the insolent dynamism of the united kingdom... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the countries of the so-called western balkans were expecting specific dates and all they got was a pat on the back. we cannot allow the european perspective of the so-called western balkans to become a cheap rhetoric that is only repeated at summits. we have to be specific. on the other hand, we must not bring serbia into the european union just to remove it from russian influence, or bosnia and herzegovina to remove it from turkish influence. of course, the european union cannot afford to have a stronger russian and chinese or turkish influence in its own backyard, but all the countries of the western balkans need to carry out the necessary reforms, and not hope to join the european union through geopolitical blackmail. i am glad that the hill declaration emphasises the settlement of bilateral relations, including relations with the member states of the union, because we know that there are a whole series of open issues that serbia and bosnia and herzegovina are avoiding to resolve with croatia. first of all, i am thinking of the equality of croats as a constituent people and the change of the electoral law in bosnia and herzegovina, as well as the solution of the war legacy and the issue of the rights of the croatian national minority in the republic of serbia. croatia has done its part, and now we expect others to do theirs in a spirit of reciprocity.
before we continue the debate, i must open the first round of voting today. you know that the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the vote will take place at 9.45 a.m. and will end at 11 a.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the statements by the council and the commission (2021/2930 (rsp)).
mr president, i would like to address the people of the countries of the so-called western balkans who will be voting in a referendum on their membership of the european union. i want to tell them to do a good cost-benefit analysis. there is much to be learned from the example of croatia. many, unfortunately, were misled into thinking that europe would solve croatian problems - it won't. only you can handle this. in your countries, unfortunately, the level of corruption is high, but brussels will not do much to solve this problem. they will simply accept the political class as it is and will even, unfortunately, subsidize it. for example, in croatia, the share of public sector subsidies in the recovery plan is as high as 70%. you can also expect that even more of the population will leave your country. you will not, unfortunately, benefit much from the common market. you can expect much more imports than exports. western european corporations will, if they haven't already, take over the most important economic sectors of your countries. competitiveness with the rest of the eu will be difficult to achieve, and production volumes even more difficult. the money from the funds will indeed be received, but a significant part of it again goes to where it came from, to foreign suppliers, above all infrastructure, equipment and services, because, my god, they meet european standards and you do not. you have the right to a fair legal-public hearing, and don't let anyone take that away from you.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that south-east europe is a region of strategic importance not only for the neighbouring member states but also for the european union as a whole. the european union is the western balkans's convincingly leading economic partner and largest foreign investor. but perhaps more importantly, any instability in the region would, clearly, also mean crisis and instability for the entire european union. in the area of security, it is also important to insist, with the countries of south-east europe, that they step up their efforts to combat illegal migration, to strengthen the impermeability of their own borders and to jointly combat illegal crossings across europe. it's an important part of their security and our security, but it's also an important part of where they test their ability and the capacity of the state to approach and meet the standards of the european union. the european commission and europe have ambitions to be a global geopolitical player. we have been discussing for hours here in the european parliament the situation in the south china sea, afghanistan, ethiopia. but i think it's clear to everyone that we can't in any way be truly globally relevant if we lose influence even in our closest neighborhood. it is clear that with such a cold european attitude, other global actors are not standing by and are also very active in the western balkans. so it's really the bare minimum of some kind of geopolitical ambition of the european union to be really present, to prove our real influence, but also real credibility right here in southeastern europe, and only then can we try to show our other global ambitions.
mr vice-president, commissioner, minister logar, ladies and gentlemen, the south east european area is of strategic importance to the european union. history has shown that crises in this area can destabilise the whole of europe. we saw this in 1914 when a chain of events that began in sarajevo caused a global cataclysm that brought about the collapse of the world order that had existed until then. so the fate of this area is of enormous importance to all of us, although many in europe, unfortunately, are not aware of it. i would mention bosnia and herzegovina first. there, croats, a constituent people, overwhelmingly citizens of the european union, are discriminated against because they are prevented from electing their own political representatives. therefore, the most urgent reform of the electoral system is needed, in accordance with the decision of the constitutional court, in order to stop the discrimination of one of the constituent peoples and prevent further destabilisation of the country. europe must certainly contribute to this. furthermore, montenegro has moved far away on the path to the eu, but unfortunately anti-european forces that deny the very existence of the montenegrin nation have a strong influence in the current ruling majority, which is not good at all, and represents a setback compared to the previous situation. the strategic imperative for montenegro simply has to be its european path, and the union has to actively help it in this, not just be a silent observer of what is happening there. serbia, on the other hand, cannot join the european union until it has resolved fundamental issues related to the rule of law, such as minority rights, the prosecution of war crimes and the fate of missing persons from the aggression against croatia. a constructive approach based on facts and a decisive face to face with one's own mistakes and failures are necessary for this country where today the croatian language is denied in school textbooks. its leadership simply has to face the past and then embrace european values sincerely and work towards joining the european union, not play titus and the non-aligned. today we are again in very complex times with a number of powers such as russia, china and turkey increasingly present in this region, which we all in the union need to take very seriously. if europe does not take the lead in south-eastern europe, others will fill the void.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prosecution of bribery is unfortunately a reality in some member states of the european union. they are used by large companies or associations or by public authorities to intimidate journalists, academics or whistleblowers into silence. i think we must fight against this instrumentalisation of justice. that is why i welcomed the idea of the european parliament voting a report to denounce it. unfortunately, the wölken/metsola report before us misses the opportunity to obtain the consensus of all the political groups in parliament. in insisting on the need to include critical thinking in school curricula, he is referring to alleged union values that encompass all fashionable whims, including waking thought, and he is undermining the freedoms of opinion and expression that he was supposed to defend. and by castigating hate speech, without specifying what he means by it, he is opening the way for a new form of political discrimination against nationalist movements. that is why i am opposed to this report. i will always be on the side of public liberties against attempts to condone official propaganda and censorship.
mr. chairman, fellow colleagues, fellow citizens, protecting honest investigative journalists is, of course, a fundamental goal of all of us, ensuring that they do their job honestly and that they inform the public. but in the last year and a half, we've seen unprecedented media marketing of pandemics, where thousands of journalists, thousands of media outlets, have been putting out a bunch of lies and a bunch of fake data to frighten people and citizens, leading to a campaign of fear that has never been seen before. will those people who have caused tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of human lives to be lost or created this unimaginable pandemic of lies and fear, will they also be protected forever? well, that's the wrong way. we need to separate those real investigative journalists from the pandemic marketing people who are responsible for tens and hundreds of thousands of deaths. - thank you. - thank you.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am delighted to join you here today to discuss how we can ensure that all patients have access to affordable, high—quality, safe, sustainable and effective medicines, regardless of where they live in the eu. one year ago, we presented the new pharmaceutical strategy for europe in this house, the strategy that will shape our pharmaceutical policy for the coming decades and aims to ensure that all patients can access the medicines they need, when they need them. this is a fundamental right. it is a crucial part of our collective effort to recover from the pandemic, stronger and more resilient than before. that is why i truly welcome parliament’s report on the pharmaceutical strategy. let me thank the rapporteur, ms montserrat, and the shadow rapporteurs, for this very important work. i am encouraged that you support the objectives of the strategy, but more than that, that you share its ambition. this speaks well for the strategy’s implementation, and in particular the legislative proposals. one of the first deliverables on a flagship initiative is the political agreement on the regulation on health technology assessment (hta), which is expected to be endorsed next month. strengthened eu cooperation on hta will help member states to take more timely and evidence—based decisions on new treatments and improve patients’ access to new innovation. another early deliverable is the health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera), which you have already mentioned and which became operational last month. hera fills a major gap in the eu’s health security framework. it will improve the development, manufacturing, procurement and distribution of key medical countermeasures, including medicines, in the eu. it will push for innovation in areas where we need it most, for example in antibiotics. in addition, the clinical trials regulation becomes applicable in january and will facilitate innovation and more patient—oriented and coordinated development of medicines. political agreement was reached at the end of last month on the strengthened mandate of the european medicines agency to provide for better monitoring and mitigation of shortages, and of critical medicines. to further strengthen the resilience of eu health systems, we have launched a structured dialogue with actors in the pharmaceuticals manufacturing value chain, public authorities, the research community, health professionals and patient organisations to look more strategically at the issue of security of supply. this first phase of the dialogue – the gathering of information – has now been concluded. in the second phase we will reflect on possible policy measures to ensure security of supply of medicines, active pharmaceutical ingredients and raw materials and ultimately reinforce our open strategic autonomy. honourable members, we are still in the early stages of the pharmaceutical strategy, but we are taking concrete steps to deliver real benefits to citizens, and there are more to come. we are working intensively on the evaluation and revision of pharmaceutical legislation. the revision of the legislation on medicines for rare diseases and for children is progressing. both are expected at the end of next year. we are making good progress in implementing the eu strategy on pharmaceuticals in the environment. we have seen that we need stronger supply chains to address dependencies on third countries in terms of raw materials and medicines. before ending i want to stress two important points. firstly, this is about patients. we are putting the patient at the centre of our pharmaceutical policy every step of the way. the overarching goal here is to ensure innovation that addresses unmet medical needs, and this innovation provides affordable medicines that can reach patients across the eu. secondly, this is a complex process, and our success depends on collaboration. we need to work together with all relevant stakeholders, and we are confident that we can. we can reduce shortages of medicines and improve access and affordability; we can support innovation and sustainability in our pharmaceutical sector; and we can deliver concrete, lasting benefits to patients. at the end of the day this translates into healthier citizens, more accessible and more resilient health systems, and stronger and more equal societies. once again, thank you to ms montserrat and all those who contributed to this significant report and i look forward to hearing the discussion.
i would like to thank mrs montserrat and all the rapporteurs from the other groups for the work they have done together over the past few months. i think the final text is really an achievement to be proud of. the pandemic has put health back at the centre and the need for an efficient health and pharmaceutical system that serves the public. with this pharmaceutical strategy, we have restored dignity to patients, and we have called all stakeholders to their responsibilities. on the one hand, there are the public authorities, european and national, who must support research and innovation to enable europe to be independent in the field of health, but on the other hand there are also private actors, who have enormous responsibilities, particularly when they enjoy public financial support and aid. too many countries and too many patients in europe do not have access to treatment, even life-saving treatment, because their markets are not commercially viable. there is still too much discrimination in europe between rich and poor countries. this is no longer acceptable. the time has come to create a true european health union, where all citizens are finally recognised and guaranteed their right to a quality public health system, with minimum standards of health care that are valid throughout europe. we need the utmost transparency and traceability of public funds, with the pricing of medicines not being determined by how important this medicine is to the patients, but being linked to the real costs of research and development. binding marketing clauses are needed in all european countries to ensure that no one is left behind. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's pharmaceutical industry. today is the beginning, not the end, of work on these issues, which are so strategic for the future of our europe.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, i am pleased to see that this report contains some points which are essential for my group. we have finally introduced conditions of transparency, accessibility and affordability for pharmaceutical companies when their products are developed with public funds - funds that come from taxpayers. it is time to put an end to the exorbitant prices charged by pharmaceutical companies, which have also received substantial public subsidies. it is also time to end this system that endangers patients. and i demand that the price of medicines finally reflect the real costs of developing them. at the same time, drug shortages are ravaging some countries in europe and i am pleased to see that the report makes reference to preventing delays in market entry for generics and biosimilars. i am also very concerned about the fact that we finally have stricter obligations in terms of environmental protection and a call for the use of alternatives to animal testing. the medicine is primarily a response to a basic need: health. it should not be in the interests of the pharmaceutical industry alone. so i am still a little disappointed to see references to regulatory flexibility in this report. we need a strong regulatory system to ensure the safety and efficacy of our pharmaceuticals. i am also a little disappointed that this report gives preference to voluntary licensing in the context of a global pandemic, which should allow governments to resort to compulsory licensing in order to meet public health needs. that is why we have tabled an amendment to this paragraph, in order to at least put voluntary licences on an equal footing with compulsory licences. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to take responsibility as representatives of the european citizens and to vote in favour of this amendment.
for the left. madam president, i am not at all pleased with the outcome of this report. first, the text has very little ambition in terms of reforming intellectual property rights both inside and outside the european union. after two years of the pandemic, we are still facing the same challenges that we presented five years ago in the resolution on access to medicines in the european union. i believe that patent protection does not and should not serve as a key incentive for innovation. i also believe that compulsory licenses should be used more often. it must be the standard in a pandemic. for this reason, i have tabled an amendment to this report with other colleagues, which incorporates these aspects into the text. secondly, i don't like the way the report puts public support for drug research. if this whole anabasis of vaccine development and supply has taught us anything, it's that the public sector needs to have more control over the subsidies it pays to the pharmaceutical companies. we cannot allow the farce to be repeated again, where vaccines that we paid for with our own money are owned by someone else and we are not allowed to know their price. overall, the ambition to set new rules for transparency in the pharmaceutical sector in terms of pricing, research expenditure and its quantification, and the publication of clinical trial results is grim. for these reasons, i regret that i cannot support the report at this time. it's not bringing anything new.
the pharmaceutical industry and the european health organization have a duty to protect the health of citizens, they have a duty to bring medicines and vaccines to the market. they have a duty to protect the health of citizens from fake medicines and fake vaccines. now it's all coming apart at the seams. the european health organization has approved drugs, or vaccines, against covid, for which there is absolutely no evidence of any efficacy, of 10 percent efficacy. their efficiency is absolutely zero. in countries that are fully vaccinated, the epidemic and the deaths are increasing. in england, there are ten times more cases of covid-19 among those who have been vaccinated and four times more deaths than among those who have not. now is the time to stop this madness and stop the vaccines that aren't.
as a result of past industrial policy, 40% of medicines in the european union today come from third countries. at the same time, 60 to 80% of the active pharmaceutical ingredients are produced in china and india. in such circumstances, further exacerbated by the pandemic, the european union is exposed to the risk of a shortage of medicines. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament and the council with the information necessary to assess the need for a european pharmaceutical industry. in addition, as a member who has been pushing for the creation of a european health union since the beginning of my mandate, i strongly advocate the extension of joint procurement to include medicines for the treatment of cancer and rare diseases. we will thus strengthen the bargaining position of smaller and less developed member states which do not have the pharmaceutical and industrial capacity of the most developed ones and, of course, achieve price reductions. in this context, the establishment of a european fund for the acquisition of medicines for rare diseases would be of great importance in order to ensure that patients in all member states have equal access to these often very expensive medicines.
the european parliament, by setting up the committee on cancer, has highlighted the importance of this topic for the future of the eu. the union contribution for 2021 amounts to a total of eur 100000000 and is intended to cover the costs of the union contribution for the period from 1 january 2021 to 31 december 2023. these numbers show the enormity of the problem we face. the work of the committee contributes to the creation of a common framework for the treatment of cancer and is an expression of our solidarity, but also of our responsibility for the welfare of citizens throughout the union. in drafting the committee's report, in addition to strengthening prevention, i would highlight as a priority the problem of unequal access to quality cancer treatment. this can be achieved by investing more in european cohesion funds in health infrastructure and workforce, facilitating access to high-quality healthcare in other member states and through joint procurement that will reduce prices and allow all patients in the eu to access the latest medicines on equal terms. we must send a very clear message from here: there can be no first-class and second-class citizens in the european union.
mr president, the croatian public is constantly hearing the story about the huge sums of money from the european funds that have been paid to farmers, and yet there is no serious production or increase in production. in croatia, unfortunately, as much as 70% of eu funds allocated to agriculture and rural development went not to agriculture and rural development but to projects related to the public sector, which does not bring newly created value or jobs that are essential for the existence and survival of the population in rural areas. huge amounts of money were used for non-productive purposes: decorating buildings, squares, offices, or overpaying for software. so we have a case two weeks ago when the former minister of plenkovic's government gabrijela žalac paid for software that cost in real terms not three million kuna, but 13 million kuna. 100% of the funding for this was withdrawn from the competitiveness and cohesion technical support programme. the same was arrested on the basis of a request from the european public prosecutor's office. obviously the main motive for using european funds in croatia is the political survival of the current government, buying the electorate and collecting commissions from contractors that bring huge profits to individuals, as we see. apparently there's a lot of work for the eppo to do.
mr. chairman, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hadn't planned this, but since it's been mentioned, i'd like to address the issue of the pension first. croatian prosecco and italian prosecco are not the same drink. anyone who says that the croatian past is unfair competition to the italian average is either completely ignorant or malicious. we've heard all sorts of nebulous things about this subject, so i'm taking this opportunity to clarify the situation. now, on the main issues, the common agricultural policy is europe's answer to the need to ensure a decent standard of living for 22 million farmers and a stable, diverse and secure food supply for all european citizens. today, other priorities such as the climate resilience of agricultural production, sustainability and rural development are in focus, as is evident, among other things, by the allocation of 25% of direct payments to eco-schemes. of course, that's commendable, but we must not forget the most important thing, which is to ensure the uninterrupted delivery of quality, healthy food at affordable prices. the covid-19 pandemic has further highlighted the importance of self-sufficiency in food production. the reforms we are implementing and those that will be implemented, based on a farm-to-table strategy, must not jeopardise food supplies or lead to significant price increases. as the epp rapporteur for the imco opinion, i can say that there is a real danger of this happening. farmers were and remain the most important link in the food supply chain. we must see them as partners, not as enemies or obstacles to future development. i think this is a good compromise, although it's not ideal, and i hope that such rational politics will prevail in the future instead of ideology, green or any other.
rapporteur. – mr president, after several months of formal and informal talks and then the very intense conciliation period, i’m really delighted that we have the budget act, which is the basis of the financing for all the european programmes and agencies in the next year. over the course of this year we have echoed a number of political commitments to direct the budget towards a real, tangible instrument tailored to support businesses, regions and generations of citizens. the objective was clear: deliver a strong recovery budget in a year when it is the first time that the annual budget is significantly complemented by the recovery investment plan. in this context, i would really like to thank the parliament delegation, including the shadow rapporteurs and the negotiating team, and also the specialised committees, but also the commission and the council presidency. parliament defended its priorities and secured significant increases in key programmes. an increase of eur 100 million for horizon europe will strengthen research and innovation, and support for small and medium enterprises, with a special allocation for tourism, will speed up the recovery. reinforcement in the life programme will help to achieve a sustainable and energy-efficient economy, and additional funds for erasmus+ will provide thousands of new opportunities for young people. increase in eu4health will enable us to better tackle cross-border health threats, and more resources for the asylum and migration fund, but also for a border and visa management instrument, will help us tackle escalating migratory challenges at our external borders. it was impossible for us to ignore other global developments such as the humanitarian crisis and the need to fight the pandemic outside of europe as well. reinforcements in the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) and humanitarian aid will provide necessary funds to tackle these emerging challenges. it has been evident throughout the negotiations that there will be strong pressure on the budget in the coming years because of a number of competing challenges, especially in the external dimension of eu policies. it was impossible to solve this throughout the annual budgetary procedure, as, similarly, it was impossible to commit on the financing costs of the recovery instrument in the coming years. this is something that will obviously have to be discussed next year as well. dear colleagues, the outcome of conciliation is a clear success. there is an increase of almost eur 500 million above the draft budget for recovery, for research, for health and for other parliament priorities. this would really not be possible without your support and valuable input and once again i really want to thank you all for this.
it is high time that the whole of europe became aware of the worrying, dramatic and dangerous institutional crisis and instability in bosnia and herzegovina. state institutions are paralyzed, society is divided, and electoral engineering has allowed all peoples to be illegitimately represented. the main generators of instability are clear and they feed off each other. separatism on one side and unitarianism on the other. radical centrifugal and centripetal approaches are destroying the foundations of dayton, its fragile peace and coexistence. the solution must start from full respect for the equality of constituent peoples. without electoral reform on such a basis, there will be no functioning european bosnia and herzegovina. my fellow citizens, half a million european citizens live in bosnia and herzegovina. we have a political, but we also have a human responsibility to ensure that their rights are no longer being shamelessly violated.
dear vice president, commissioner, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, bosnia and herzegovina is in a political crisis. however, dodik's activities, while problematic, are not the main problem of this country. the real problem is the divine desire for political hegemony under the guise of civil bih, especially over the croats as the smallest constituent nation. this is evident from the disrespect of the constitutional court's decision in the ljubić case, which violates the rule of law, which is one of the fundamental european values, and insists on continuing to vote for the croats. the croats in bosnia and herzegovina are denied a political right that no other people in europe are denied - the right to elect their own political representatives. this is a problem that can only be solved by an urgent change in the electoral law to permanently stop the croat majority. the croats in bosnia, who are a huge percentage of eu citizens, are systematically discriminated against and all they want is political equality. nothing more or less. they are the only one of the three constituent peoples sincerely turned towards the west and advocating the european path of bih. ladies and gentlemen, the question of protecting the croats in bosnia and herzegovina is a question of preserving the fundamental european values that are so often invoked here. let's not let petty interests get in the way of that.
so, my dear vice-president, my dear colleagues, it is not just the developing countries that are to blame for the failure of the cop26 in glasgow to deliver the desired results. namely, were they promised 100 billion euros by 2020 in 2009? - it is. has that promise been kept? it's not a date. and of course we all want a clean environment and we all want a green transition, but please tell me how can one, for example bangladesh, allocate for this the same as one norway or how one croatia can allocate the same as one belgium. and we are all, of course, for the environment. but ecology is not cheap, ecology costs and that's why ecology must go hand in hand with economics. and now, here in glasgow, the developed countries are calling for more funding for developing countries; why should we trust them and why should we prepare such costly projects. that's why i think glasgow should be called, not invited, but obliged. i'm asking you to think about it because it may not be too late to realize it.
madam president, i ask myself, what year is it? are we really talking about a year and a half of temporary relaxation of intellectual property protection rules in relation to covid-19 vaccines and drugs on wto grounds? we're breaking it down from left to right, while thousands of people are dying around the world and we're happily creating new mutations. we simply have to ask the question: what is the point of an international treaty that we cannot, for a year and a half, adequately respond to, even the greatest health crisis in a century? why would you do that? so our pharmaceutical companies don't lose their profits? so that a few rich people can get richer? who decides how this world works? state officials or multinational corporations? so let's answer that question. i'm not sure i'm sure anymore. even a small child today must be clear that without giving the rest of the world the chance to be vaccinated, we simply cannot get out of this crisis. let's do something about it and not just talk about it.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, we are here today to discuss how to vaccinate the whole world. covid vaccines have brought us a side effect that has never been seen before in medicine or sociology. a side effect that has never been seen in any vaccine in history. it's a side effect of panic fear. a significant number of vaccinated people are afraid that the unvaccinated will infect them with the covid-19 disease they have been vaccinated against, and they want to vaccinate the whole world. i have to disappoint them. that's not possible. because to do that, everyone has to be vaccinated at the same second or at least the same minute, because otherwise you'd have fully vaccinated again with the 13th booster dose and completely unvaccinated with the 12th booster dose, and those with the 13th would have a legitimate fear of those with the 12th, who could re-infect the vaccinated.
dear president, dear commissioner, dear minister, colleagues, the covid-19 pandemic is a global challenge. it is a global challenge. we'll leave it behind only when all the countries have conquered it. the european union has been leading the effort to get vaccines to developing countries. we must maintain and strengthen these efforts and we must urge our partners and allies to do the same. vaccines have clearly demonstrated their effectiveness in reducing hospitalizations and deaths. the european union's support for the logistics involved in the vaccination processes, particularly from the african continent, is also crucial and the european union is well placed to provide such support. it already has infrastructure for development aid, in particular in the scientific research partnership on aids, malaria and tuberculosis. this partnership has allowed for the creation of capabilities that could be very useful in this battle against the coronavirus. without ensuring adequate conditions on the ground, the simple delivery of vaccines loses its effectiveness.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the recent coronavirus numbers have made it clear that we can only be truly safe if everyone is safe. and a 4% vaccination rate in africa is not acceptable, so we have to do more here. there is a whole bunch of measures we have to take. i call on the council and the member states to release the promised doses for other countries. we are far from having achieved the scale that has been promised. second, of course, we need more money for covax, so that more can be bought. but above all we must increase production capacity. and that means - and i think that is good, commissioner - that we are also supporting the hub in a number of african countries with team europe, so that production capacity can be created there. but what i cannot understand at all is that the companies which are making a lot of money on the cans are not transferring technology and not supporting production. i've looked at all the contracts. there is no obligation to transfer technology, there is no obligation to set up production facilities in developing countries. that needs to change. those who make a lot of money from medicine must also take responsibility and invest in other countries so that vaccines can be produced there too.
madam president, we are all equal, but citizens of the northern hemisphere are a little more equal than those of the southern hemisphere. indeed, if there was any evidence of discrimination against developing countries, the current covid-19 pandemic would have revealed it. there is a gap, a gulf, in access to vaccines between rich and poor countries. the covax mechanism is still doing too little, but what it is doing, it is doing well, very well indeed, especially under the impetus of the european union. and we know why. in the short term, it has been impossible to meet the expectations of developing countries. the problem is structural, we know that. this is why international action is still limited to the humanitarian dimension. for the time being, this approach must be maintained, while more structural approaches are developed in parallel. this must involve a transfer of technical capacity that could enable the production of vaccines on an industrial scale. this must also be done by transferring knowledge to developing countries. this commitment was made by the rich countries in doha 20 years ago. we have to keep that promise. if this fails, we will be in the same situation as today in the next pandemic, with citizens of our countries already receiving the third dose of the vaccine, while more than 90% of the population in the south is still waiting for the first shot.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious time. as we debate this, several member states have decided to apply repressive, discriminatory and unconstitutional measures against their people in order to accelerate mass vaccination, without any respect for vaccine freedom. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, such as the dutch police force, which was ordered last week to shoot the population with live ammunition. discriminatory measures, such as when states such as the czech republic, germany, austria or slovakia decide to confine their unvaccinated under heavy penalties or even imprisonment. unconstitutional measures, such as when the latvian government forbids parliamentarians from voting or participating in debates if they have not received the vaccine. these unquestionable, totally disproportionate measures, which have no scientific basis, are a disgrace to europe, especially when it is proven that the vaccine does not prevent infection with the virus or its transmission. i take as an example our french prime minister, jean castex, who is double vaccinated, who accuses the unvaccinated of all ills, while he himself does not respect any of the barrier gestures, not even the wearing of the mask, and ends up being contaminated by covid. what a scoundrel! the european union is constantly speaking about the danger of the so-called extreme right and its totalitarian temptation, of a police, fascist and tyrannical regime. but we are here because this is the regime that prevails today in the european union, which claims to be democratic. when the german health minister said, as late as monday, that germans would be vaccinated, cured or dead by the end of winter, i understood that this pandemic had made you completely crazy. i ask this house today to condemn in the strongest possible terms these measures which violate all the principles of democracy, justice and freedom. churchill is credited with saying: "the fascists of tomorrow will call themselves anti-fascists". if you do not react, ladies and gentlemen, to these liberticidal measures, the peoples will have to take their fate into their own hands and break the shackles of this prison europe, as marine le pen, the beloved protector of freedom, will allow them to do tomorrow in france.
madam president, the 66% of the population fully vaccinated in the eu contrasts with 42% globally, or worse, 7% in africa. it was the people who paid for the massive public funds that were mobilized for research, production, early purchase of vaccines. multinational corporations have taken ownership and are raking in profits at the expense of global health, at the expense of public research and production. by preventing the suspension of patents and the possibilities for more rapid progress in the production, distribution and application of vaccines, the eu continues its stubborn defence of the interests of multinationals. contributing to the necessary advancement of vaccination worldwide requires, not a welfare-based approach, but the advocacy of effective development cooperation that includes support for the development of production capacities of the developing countries, free from the logic of multinationals or conditional support strategies. we have said it before and we will not tire of repeating it: vaccines are a public good that should be in the service of humanity!
madam president, when we approach medical products we always look at cost and benefit. i was personally present on 25 february this year in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) in brussels when the ceos of seven big pharmaceutical companies claimed that they have 95% effectiveness, and some even more. nine months later, we can see that this is much less and shorter than in their self-made clinical trials, as highly vaccinated countries have a high number of positive cases, unfortunately. that is benefit, and when it comes to costs, there have been more side effects reported for covid vaccines in one year than for all other vaccines combined in several decades. we have zero data on long-term effects. instead of demanding accountability from those companies for manipulating data regarding their products of questionable quality, the commission and the governments have decided to blame those who haven’t even taken the product for the product failure, attacking them with segregation, fear and guilt campaigns. and now, today, in november 2021, we have come from extremely effective to fourth and fifth doses in some countries. even if you had an elixir of eternal youth, you cannot force it on anyone, let alone experimental products like this.
dear vice president, commissioner, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, i take this opportunity to once again call on all our fellow citizens to place their trust in science and not in those who want to manipulate vulnerable groups of society with false information. those who spread false information, and we heard them here today, unfortunately, are responsible for the deaths of people who refuse to be vaccinated because of their lies. vaccination is the most effective public health measure, and it not only protects us and our loved ones, but it also relieves the burden on the health care system. this allows those in need to receive timely medical care. on the other hand, by not vaccinating, we risk introducing a new strict lockdown that is in no one's interest. let's be clear: the alternative to vaccination and covid certificates is lockdown. that's got to be clear to everyone. the european union is based on solidarity, it does not stop at its borders. we are the world's largest exporter of vaccines, exporting every other vaccine produced in the eu to third countries. by vaccinating the rest of the world, we're reducing the clutch of the virus that could lead to the creation of new, even more infectious strains. it's important to note that it's thanks to intellectual property rights that we've developed a safe and effective vaccine in record time that we're now able to share with the rest of the world. their protection must not be compromised under any circumstances, for without them there can be no medical innovation that we so desperately need. covid-19 is an unpredictable disease that requires a joint coordinated response based on solidarity. the european union has long recognised this, and now it is time for the other world powers to join us in solidarity.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth wave of the pandemic, the impact of climate change and the spiraling energy prices. this is the moment we live in, this is our daily life, unfortunately. and even before that, before this energy price frenzy, about 30 million europeans lived in energy poverty. that is about seven times the population of my home country, croatia. and if all of that wasn't enough, here's inflation. never greater, which of course undermines the competitiveness of our economy and hinders the purchasing power of all our citizens. i therefore welcome the package of measures recently adopted by the commission, but i urge you to make further efforts to propose, together with the member states, more measures, more instruments and more programmes. that you don't stop at what you've done so far and do your best to make sure that both citizens and the economy survive this difficult winter that's coming around the corner.
mr president, commissioner, on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, i would first like to express my regret at the fact that there are no relevant and up-to-date statistics on this problem. it means that the numbers we have do not reflect the reality that is even worse today. and the statistics are now: one in three women has been a victim of physical or sexual violence in her lifetime, one in four young women has been exposed to domestic violence and intimate partner violence. on average, two out of three women never reported violence to the police. the conclusion we can draw from this is that the problem of violence against women with age is not diminishing but, unfortunately, is growing. existing prevention and protection programs are not working. the low percentage of violence reports is a sign of distrust of institutions. and best of all, these numbers show us very clearly that our key document, the istanbul convention, has not lived up to the way we envisioned and that it is time to take bolder steps. it is our responsibility to monitor the implementation of the istanbul convention, and we expect the european commission to issue a new directive to combat violence against women, promised by the end of this year. i want to believe that the commission will not leave women on the sidelines.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mrs sandri pereira, for this report, which is clear, concise and calls for urgent action, but also full of facts and information that should be of great concern to us. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the gender balance in the union, in particular the impact of the measures on the gender equality situation in the union. on the contrary, it is worse. women continue to receive lower wages and pensions, are constantly exposed to violence and harassment, are denied sexual and reproductive rights, and are systematically excluded from decision-making processes. this has all been made worse by a pandemic in which women have been hit multiple times. in order to overcome the negative consequences of the pandemic as effectively as possible, decisive and bolder action is needed in the coming period, both from the commission and from the other european institutions. we expect to address the issue of minimum wages with a strong focus on the gender pay gap, a directive to combat gender-based violence and a clear response and sanctions to all member states that persistently trample on women's rights and undermine the fight for gender equality. these are necessary steps to ensure that the next biennial report contains the less intimidating data i mentioned at the beginning.
mr president, i am very pleased that today we have the opportunity to take a decision which is a good step towards making young people across the european union a real political priority. first of all, let's not let this year be a year of "you are our future", "we believe in you", blah blah blah. young people expect concrete projects, steps and actions that will carry over from this year to the future. these include problems such as unpaid youth work, non-recognition of youth work, non-recognition of qualifications, housing problems. secondly, we must ensure that this year is equally successful for everyone, and this means that representatives of young people from all member states must participate equally in the creation and implementation of the activities of the year of youth. for example, young people from croatia know very well what they need and how and i believe that the same or similar problems are faced by young people from other member states. finally, let us use this european year of youth as a concrete introduction to all the post-pandemic years to come. recovery priorities as well as funding must reflect the fact that we are aware of the impact of the pandemic on young people and that we are prepared to deal with it.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations is based on the principle of subsidiarity. in the context of this partnership, ukraine is our important economic, security and energy partner. the security of the eastern part of the european union directly depends on the security and stability of ukraine and we must therefore actively work to strengthen it. the eu's policy on the protection of the cultural heritage of ukraine is based on the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which provides for the protection of cultural heritage and the protection of cultural property. that aid today, given the size of this country and its needs, is absolutely insufficient. the european union must become more active in helping ukraine economically, socially, militarily and culturally if it is to remain part of the western cultural circle. you, commissioner, have announced certain measures which i welcome but much, much more needs to be done. croatia may be the best of all the member states to understand the events in ukraine because we ourselves, not so long ago, were victims of aggression and had to reintegrate part of our territory. we felt abandoned by everyone then and something like this must not happen again in ukraine. we can't expect ukraine to be some kind of european border guard, especially not without giving them something in return. ukraine does not need words, it needs resolutions, it needs concrete actions, and that is where the european union has unfortunately failed too many times in the past. that's why he can't fail now.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's external assistance to the countries of the western balkans, in particular the countries of the former yugoslavia, the former yugoslavia and the former yugoslavia. recent european commission reports have detailed the importance of achieving tangible results in judicial reform and the fight against organised crime, particularly in the case of those countries where there is no particular momentum. stopping organised crime and corruption is key to joining the european union. unfortunately, the pandemic hasn't slowed down organized crime either. in fact, we have bold examples of corrupt practices in public procurement of medical equipment, such as the respirator affair in bosnia and herzegovina. there is ample evidence that the organised crime virus knows no borders. coupled with corruption, organized crime poses a huge threat in an already troubled region. it threatens security, social cohesion, it forces young people to leave these countries. it is good that the new instrument for pre-accession assistance ipa iii, for which i was the european parliament's co-rapporteur, contains guidelines for strengthening the judiciary and developing more effective tools to combat organised crime. i stress that we in the european parliament must constantly send strong messages of support to civil society organisations, to investigative journalism, to all the brave and courageous people who are working and risking their lives to make their countries better. we stand with them as they fight organized crime. let us encourage stronger police and judicial cooperation between the western balkan countries and kosovo's membership of interpol would be a good step in that direction.
mr president, i would like to congratulate lukas mandl for his timely and accurate support. the fight against crime has been on the top of the agenda of the western balkan governments for almost a decade now. organised crime is a problem of such magnitude that it could limit the democratisation and development of the western balkans as a whole and could undermine the european integration of every country in the region. however, most of the western balkan countries have recognised the dangers to their peoples constituted by organised crime, and have already implemented a number of required legal, institutional and political measures in order to able to successfully combat it. but no question, more has to be done. in order to meet eu membership criteria, the western balkan countries need to deliver concrete results, in judicial reforms and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the eu must stand alongside the people of the western balkans in their fight against organised crime and provide further assistance as part of the eu accession process.
mr president, unfortunately, in the balkans, organised crime sometimes, or often, happens close to political leaders or sometimes even under the control of political leaders. in this context, we, as the european union, should foremost take care that our ipa iii funds are first of all – and most of all – used to strengthen the rule of law, to strengthen the institutions and the justice in the region, and also to strengthen the proper election processes that would actually make sure that some of the political leaders may become the history of the region. we need to make sure that our ipa iii funds, whenever they go into investments in the regions, especially when it comes to a lot of concrete, no matter if it’s motorways, hydropower plants or windmills, that we really make sure that our controlling system ensures that no part of this money is going into black channels of corruption and of bribes. also what we very much can do within our very own european union member states is make sure that this money that is earned by bribery, corruption or organised crime does not end up in real-estate investments and other investments in our very own countries. that’s where we have control. that’s what we should take care of.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, organized crime is flourishing in chaos, and the state institutions in the so-called western balkans have not been strong enough to stop it. crime rose during the chaos of war, and it's rising today, when illegal migration fuels organized crime. human trafficking, organ trafficking, terrorist activity, the strengthening of prostitution and slavery chains are all unintended consequences of the migration crisis, which is largely the result of irresponsible statements by european politicians about welcoming illegal migrants. i support the measures against organised crime in this report, and in particular the call for increased protection of the external borders of the european union, as this is in support of the important and responsible work carried out by the croatian border police. those who criticize croatia for defending its border and the eu's external border should bear in mind that this is at least partly preventing criminal chains from intensifying their activities on eu soil.
mr. chairman, colleagues, citizens, smuggling of economic and other immigrants is the most vicious and dangerous part of the western balkans' organized crime. it is the direct responsibility of european leaders who have encouraged the inhabitants of africa and asia to come illegally en masse to europe and the european union as part of the economic and conquest immigration of the last decade. they, like the former german chancellor angela merkel, have irresponsibly, in direct violation of the legal rules and the european agreements, invited millions of migrants to take the road to europe, creating migration routes that have not been closed to this day. it is precisely because of this, because of such irresponsible political leaders in certain european countries, that today the citizens of the western balkans suffer first and foremost and then all the citizens of the european union who do not want illegal immigration.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, organized crime groups have traditionally been present in the western balkans as well. they are driven by illicit profit-making where along with corruption they represent one of the greatest threats to the rule of law and prosperity for citizens. at the same time, organised crime in the countries of south-eastern europe is often a source, or at least a transit zone, for crime in the european union. because organised crime knows no borders and this is a debate and a discussion about the security of the whole european union. illegal markets, drug and arms trafficking, corruption at all levels and in all sectors, and money laundering are the main manifestations of the problem. however, we must not forget the most cynical and darkest form of organised crime that has flourished in south-eastern europe in recent years: smuggling and trafficking in human beings. it has unfortunately become one of the most profitable criminal activities but also a means of pressure on european borders. the historical links between organized crime and the yugoslav regime are also well known but much is still hidden. i therefore welcome the call to open all the archives of the former yugoslavia and in particular to provide access to the files of the former yugoslav secret services. in all these areas, the western balkan countries need to show more concrete results in order to make progress on the path towards the european union. we need better security cooperation, the exchange of security and intelligence information and a stronger consideration of the performance of countries in this area in the context of enlargement policy priorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the criminal law is applied in a fair and transparent manner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens of the european union, without employers there is no workforce, without workers there is no employers, without both there is no capitalism. capitalism in a modern society, in a society where human rights are respected, the rights of each other, demands respect from employees and employers. the employer's relationship with the employee includes pay, fair wages for work done. however, what have frau merkel and monsieur macron done to the workers of the european union? they brought millions of immigrants who now work for a much lower wage. many workers have lost their jobs and will continue to lose their jobs unless the wave of migration is stopped. there will be riots all over europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the european union's cultural heritage. with a two-millennium-old tradition of celebration, christmas has become much more than a religious holiday on our continent. centuries and centuries of christian culture have shaped europe with christian ideas and values that are at the foundation of european civilization, even when we are not aware of it ourselves. such an identity and rich tradition should not be a source of shame, but on the contrary, a source of pride. so the suggestions to avoid the very memory of christmas, to erase it, or to somehow rename it a holiday season are absurd. christmas has been embedded in the heart of our continent reminding us to stop, to open our hearts to our fellow human beings, especially today in times of great social crisis. to wish christmas in 2021 is to wish the person opposite us all the best and therefore to delete, to avoid wishing christmas for the sake of faded and transient social experiments would be to renounce the europe we know and love, as well as to renounce ourselves. so i wish you a merry and blessed christmas and all the best.
the positive effects of the recovery and resilience facility are slowly but surely already being seen in the economies of the european union and the member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new financial framework and its implementation in the member states. the national recovery and resilience plan supports the reforms that croatia needs and also supports the preparations for the introduction of the euro as an official currency. one of the indicators of positive economic developments is the fact that we are projected to be one of the three fastest growing european economies in the next two years, as well as the most favourable credit rating ever recently granted to the youngest member state of the european union. croatia is facing a year of positive change, preparing for the introduction of the euro and entry into schengen. this is largely possible because of the recovery and resilience mechanism. here in parliament we need to support such success stories, but also to ensure accountability, control and the sound use of taxpayers' money. parliament must fully fulfil its budgetary role, its supervisory role, protect the rule of law and ensure that funds go where they are needed most and where they will make the biggest difference in reducing economic disparities between member states.
author. mr president, in recent years serbia has implemented neoliberal reforms to attract foreign investment and in response to european demands in the context of the accession process. reforms that, as civil society complains, have affected the labour rights of workers with particularly serious cases that the serbian government has tried to hide, such as the linglong factory. but reforms have also devalued serbian environmental regulations. we cannot forget that serbia is the most polluted country in europe. in recent weeks, mass mobilizations have been taking place against the plundering of the country's natural resources. one of the companies criticized in these demonstrations is rio tinto and its jadar project, one of the largest lithium extraction projects that will mainly supply the european market and that will devastate the local environment. it is a coincidence that the resolution did not want to mention this. labour and environmental rights must be defended irrespective of the nationality of the company that violates them. enough of hypocrisy and looking the other way when europe is being tarnished and the shame of its impossible green capitalism is being laid bare. because we don't have a planet b. it is urgent to change the system so as not to change the climate.
on behalf of the ppe club. honourable chairman, commissioner, colleagues, in the last few weeks we have witnessed large environmental protests in serbia where tens of thousands of citizens are participating in road blockades and demanding the abolition of the expropriation act, amendments to the referendum act to prevent the exploitation of lithium in that country. peaceful protests have been followed by a series of incidents and provocations, sporadic clashes, push-backs and fights provoked by groups of provocateurs and supporters of the authorities, with a conspicuous absence of uniformed police. it is clear that the ruling serbian progressive party is threatening political rights and civil liberties in this country. also, the serbian government is under great pressure over the persecution of several hundred vietnamese workers involved in the construction of a chinese automobile tire factory in that country. there are serious indications that vietnamese workers are working in inhuman and unhygienic conditions, but also that they are in serbia illegally, that is, that there are elements of a criminal offence of trafficking in human beings, which is very worrying. in the wider context of the situation in serbia, i would point out the fact that the accession negotiations for serbia's accession to the european union are stagnating. the two main reasons for the lack of progress in opening new chapters are the state of democracy, the rule of law and the slowness of reforms. there has even been a setback on issues crucial to eu accession such as fundamental human rights, the fight against corruption, media independence and the development of civil society, and no concrete results and visible efforts are seen in these areas. in fact, if we look at the situation with media freedom we can see that the situation in that segment is worse than ever. in this way, the serbian government is sending a message that it is not sure if it wants to continue its path towards european integration at all, and it is becoming increasingly clear that president vučić has never really been true to european ideas and values. serbia cannot join the eu until it has resolved fundamental rule of law issues, including the prosecution of war crimes, the fate of missing persons from the aggression against croatia, and the protection of minority rights. its leadership simply has to face these problems and show by deeds, not words, that it has won european values.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we have tolerated too much of threats from within the union and, above all, from outside it. we can no longer ignore the flagrant violations of the values that have brought us together by members or those who wish to become members of our family. the time for discussion is over. we need concrete action with real results. fake news and anti-european propaganda, hate speech, discrimination and violence, restrictions on freedom of the press, restrictions on freedom of movement, on labour rights, modern slavery - all of this is happening on our soil and at our borders, all of it is being perpetrated and financed by entities with a clear interest in destabilising the union. we must treat them as they deserve: as threats to the security and prosperity of the european citizens who sent us here. we cannot be leaders on the continent and in the world by communicating from warm offices in response to repeated, organized, unsanctioned attacks. to europeans, we are not diplomats, we are just absent, and the enemies dare to shout even louder.
president. - serbia is becoming a chinese colony with chinese factories and chinese working conditions. serbia also has strategic raw materials and is therefore important for the eu. by blocking the accession of serbia and the other western balkan states, the dutch and, more importantly, the french governments are giving china every opportunity to gain a strategic position in europe. china is the source of human rights violations in europe. but we must also take into account the strategic and economic aspects of our position on the admission of the western balkan countries. the situation in the western balkans, through the neglect of the eu, constitutes a major and urgent threat to the economy and political stability of europe. this can even lead to war and large flows of refugees. i therefore call on the european commission and the european council to take action and to start the accession process of the western balkan countries as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, lithium mines are planned at 20 locations in serbia and the key is the jadra valley which has 18 thousand inhabitants with a prominent agriculture and confirms the sad neocolonial reality of europe and china. during angela merkel's recent visit to her epp party colleague vucic, he was a waiter and serbia a buffet. merkel says europe is very interested in serbian lithium. why is europe not interested in its own lithium, when the largest reserves are in germany and the czech republic? because it follows a neo-colonial concept where profit and what's good goes to the center and pollution goes to the periphery. imagine if lithium was found under a vineyard around bordeaux, would the french be talking about displacing the people who live there? if it was found in tuscany, if it was found in the rhine valley, of course it wouldn't. it is not acceptable that the peripheral countries, whether they are members of europe or not, should be a dumping ground for someone to drive electric cars. also, as many as six new thermal power plants are planned for serbia while all over europe, they are shutting down. what is forbidden in europe, when it comes to the environment, cannot be allowed in serbia and bosnia or albania, which also has lithium deposits, and which merkel visited immediately after her visit to belgrade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the covid crisis has unfortunately disrupted european transport and mobility, especially because of the many restrictions at our internal borders. of course, transport and tourism are the most affected sectors of all, but supply chains are also crucial to the functioning of the internal market in the european union, and we see many, many examples of how they are having a very difficult time today. what solution do i think we're all working on here? it is, of course, a coordinated non-discriminatory approach by the member states. the commission also found that the green belts at border crossing points are not a sufficient means of transport for the goods concerned. i know very well what mileage columns look like because i come from croatia, from the tourist istria, which is unfortunately not yet a member of the schengen area. so after eight years in the waiting room, so to speak, i am looking forward to the further integration of the republic of croatia into the schengen area, or entering it. this is of course a win-win situation for croatia, but also for all member states, and in particular for the many workers, students, drivers, tourists or all the three and a half million people who move across internal borders every day. so, commissioner, i think we need to agree on two points, or two conclusions here today. we need uniform criteria for entry into the member states, that is to say, a european coordinated approach based on the principles of, of course, the common market and non-discrimination, and the full meaning of the schengen area will be given to our europe if all the countries in the waiting room enter it as soon as possible.
