i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the report of mr morten løkkegaard, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on strengthening the single market: debate on the report on the future of the free movement of services (2020/2020) (ini) (a9-0250/2020).
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the effectiveness of the coronavirus response will be measured by the ability of the eu and its member states to deliver. unfortunately, as a result of the pandemic, partly due to the delayed response of the eu, our internal market has almost collapsed, with the flow of health services and products, among others, having been stopped. in addition, there are many examples of the increasing use of unfair commercial practices. i believe that the inadequate implementation of the services directive has had a negative impact on the european union, both for consumers and service providers, and that unjustified administrative obstacles are particularly harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises. the single market can only be achieved through a joint effort, and not just through new, targeted legislation, but through more effective enforcement, information sharing and evaluation. i ask the commission to take the necessary steps as soon as possible to protect the internal market.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 january 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the report by dace melbārde, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the effective policy legacy of the european year of cultural heritage (2019/2194 ((ini)) (a9-0210/2020).
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. everyone expected, based on the european commission's promising year-end reports, that vaccination would start in the european union at a tremendous speed at the beginning of this year, and that this would lead to the lifting of existing restrictive measures and austerity measures. we have made a good start, but unfortunately the follow-up has not been what eu citizens expected. it has now been proven, and we have to say it, that europe has started vaccinating significantly later than the countries that are leading the way in vaccination, such as the uk, israel or the united states. i believe that we cannot ignore the criticisms and questions that our voters raise every day about the eu vaccination programme, when the right number of vaccines will be available. it is an important goal for the whole society to have 60 to 70 percent of the population vaccinated as soon as possible. regrettably, on the issue of vaccination, certain left-wing parties in hungary have again taken the path of populism. rather than their proposals promising money for some vaccines, the obvious fact should be emphasized that by getting vaccinated, you not only protect yourself from infection but also reduce the chance that the virus will infect others. now it is up to the european commission to prove that the eu can really act effectively for its citizens, to get the vaccines they need. the stakes are high. the reputation of the union and the health of european citizens are at stake.
madam president, mr borrell, among the most important human rights, there are some that are intended to ensure the proper functioning of our judicial systems, for example the right to a natural judge or the right to the presumption of innocence, and in order to demand these from others, we must first respect them at home. on 7 january, the brussels court of appeal rejected the extradition of one of the members of the catalan government in exile, councillor lluis puig, on the grounds that, if he were extradited, he would not be tried by the natural judge predetermined by law and also because the spanish supreme court, said the belgian judge, does not guarantee him the right to the presumption of innocence, mr vice-president. and therefore, in spain, it would not ensure him a fair trial. it is not i who say this, it is a belgian court, not a court of first instance, a higher court, barely ten days ago and the verdict is firm. more and more actors are showing the evidence: in spain, certain fundamental rights are being violated when it comes to the catalans. the european union will continue to look the other way in order to protect spain. is it determined to ruin its moral authority in the eyes of the world in the field of human rights for good?
(in response to mr fest’s off-mic request to raise a point of order) we do not allow points of order during these sittings as these are extraordinary times. (in response to further comments from mr fest)colleague, i was informed by the services – and this we should, of course, know – that a point of order can be requested before a plenary, before a debate, but not during a debate.
i have to say, madam president, i apologize for the unfriendly german colleague. for some time now, many parts of the world have been marked by tension and conflict. the coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated all of this, because almost everywhere the economy has collapsed, and that means jobs have been lost and many people's living conditions have actually deteriorated. such developments make the need for decisive common european responses in the field of foreign policy all the more urgent. multilateral rules-based cooperation will hopefully be made easier by a new us policy that will start tomorrow at 6 p.m. cet. if we europeans know what we want and if we are united, we will also be better partners for the united states when it comes to joint action against china, russia or the fight against international terrorism. we must be able to act where we have our own interests - in the balkans, in the eastern partnership, in north africa, in the sahel - even when it is not possible to use nato resources, for example. that's what they call strategic autonomy. to be taken seriously, i expect us to use the tools we have. it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament. but overall, the foreign policy toolbox is indeed from the verbal note to treaties, sanctions to the use of weapons as a last resort if really necessary. if we do this in a credible way, we can be a partner and a relevant factor in foreign policy in this world.
madam president, reports like these give us an opportunity to set our priorities straight, to move beyond deeply concerned statements in our foreign policy and to formulate a strategy. the santos report clearly highlights that corruption and human rights abuses are two sides of the same coin. the retreat of democracies is the rise of kleptocracies all around the world, and that’s why anti-corruption belongs at the top of the european union’s human rights agenda, and that’s why we need to protect journalists and activists who are under increased pressure all over the world. a pro-democracy fight is always an anti-corruption fight, and leaders like svetlana tikhanovskaya, juan guaidó, aleksei navalny or uighur activists all understand this very well, and they keep telling us over and over again that political oppression is always rooted in a corrupt and repressive state and in a network of cronies tormenting everyday people. so that’s why instruments like the magnitsky sanctions are so crucial. they hit the perpetrators and hit them where it hurts – freezing their assets and cancelling their luxury shopping trips to paris and milan. and colleagues, let’s not forget that the eu is the world’s largest market. we could force higher human rights standards on businesses all around the word. so let’s stop allowing products on our market which are tainted by torture and crime. authoritarianism is a global pandemic as well, and the voice and leadership of the european union is gravely needed to stop the spread.
madam president, exactly a century ago, in his campaign for the presidency, warren harding said, ‘america’s present need is not heroics, but healing; not nostrums, but normalcy; not revolution, but restoration; not agitation, but adjustment’. a hundred years later, the us is facing the same problems, and i must say the people have voted and the congress has finalised the decision. but if the new administration looks back to the past instead of the future, populism will prevail. president-elect biden, we might have ideological differences, but there is one thing that binds us together, and that is the respect for democratic institutions, rule of law and fair politics. needless to say, these are just some of the many things my country, hungary, is lacking currently. just like the president a hundred years ago, you must navigate your country back to the path of normalcy, and the same normalcy should be brought back to us—eu relations. don’t deal with the past because, if you do so, the polarisation of the us society will be worse. show us an example of good governance and let us learn from the examples you are setting. i promise you my party and i will be working hard to take my country back to normalcy next year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 'it must have been trump, but it is over now' is a melodic refrain from this day, which once again makes it possible to look at the full spectrum and potential of transatlantic relations. as the epp group's foreign policy spokesman, i am pleased that the new team in washington is also talking about the revitalization of american diplomacy. the return to as many areas of multilateral, rules-based relations as possible is an expectation which we also express clearly in our own interests. the paris agreement has been mentioned, the jcpoa with iran needs to be revived. the other keywords of our expectations in the field of arms control are the renewal and renegotiation of the new start agreement, and hopefully renegotiating open skies. we europeans want bilateral double zero solutions for medium-range missiles, we must meet our share of the defence burden, we must jointly strengthen countries like ukraine against an aggressive russia and mutually abolish all punitive tariffs, make the wto fully operational again and jointly commit china in this framework. i hope that in the medium term we can achieve something like ttip 2.0. this strengthens our democracies in the long run against a systemic rival like china.
madam president, america is back. this is how the new biden administration summarised their foreign policy, and this is great news. four years of assault on the multilateral order left us all in danger. challenges like climate change, disinformation or the pandemic kept rising and our capacities to respond kept shrinking. so we welcome our key ally back to the table. europe is ready to work together, with more unity and resolve than ever before. but let’s not try to turn the clock back to the pre-trump era, it won’t be possible. autocrats are emboldened, also in europe, and corruption – at the root of the surging authoritarian trend – is rampant, also in europe. civil liberties are at a historic low. the us is no exception. but are we, in europe? i don’t think so. so where do we go from here? let’s come together at a global summit of democracy and let’s put human rights and democracy at the centre of our fight, and let’s focus more than ever before on the fight against corruption.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the european parliament, mr president costa. we have just finished six months of the german presidency, which have been portrayed as the success of a european vision on the multiannual financial framework, the recovery fund and the rule of law, with angela merkel seeming to have been promoting brussels' interests rather than her own. but then we found out that the reality was very different, and while we were making a verbal commitment to have a european dimension in managing the crisis, above all, some states were pursuing their own interests and negotiating bilaterally to get additional doses of vaccines. it is clear that i do not want to attack these states for this legitimate choice, but simply to point out how, in fact, national interests ultimately come before european ones. with you, mr president, i would also like to reflect on the european union's response to the crisis, now that we have more or less all the cards on the table. the first consideration i would like to make with you is the fact that the only non-political institution in the european union is the one that has really acted quickly and effectively, the european central bank, and this clearly raises an issue of democratic accountability, which cannot be ignored. i would then like to turn to the pillar of this response, which is the recovery plan, the european response to the crisis, to reflect with you and to ask you some questions. the first reflection is about clarity, now that we have the cards on the table, on what the recovery plan is: we have discovered that it is european debt, so it is a debt that the european union will assume on its shoulders; we found that the first money probably will come more than a year after the crisis started. we have discovered that in order to pay off this debt the citizens of europe will have to pay european taxes and we have discovered that there are conditions, conditions which, in my view, clash both with the programme of the costa presidency and with the vision, for example on certain rules, which the european parliament has expressed across the board. the stability and growth pact needs to be revised, it is outdated, it is no longer up to date and i think you, mr president costa, can agree with that and so i would like to ask whether we, on the one hand, say that this pact needs to be changed and the commission has committed itself to revising it and, on the other hand, in the regulation on the recovery fund we write in stone that, in return for that money, we must respect the stability and growth pact, binding ourselves to these rules which we must change for the next 15 or 20 years. i would also like to understand how these conditionalities fit into the programme of the portuguese presidency and, above all, what you mean by the social pillar. i would like to conclude by wishing you well, because the next six months will be very difficult and you will have to implement this, which is a response, albeit a belated one, to the present crisis. i think it takes courage to change, courage to look back, courage to realize that the approach we've taken is completely wrong, courage to reverse even those wrong choices. i believe that without a revolution of common sense and common sense europe will not be able to get out of this crisis.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on the environmental, social, economic and, i would even say, geopolitical front, portugal's priorities for its presidency of the council are in line with the general dynamic set by the von der leyen commission, which has placed a green deal for europe at the heart of its programme. so, a priori, we'd like to follow you blindly, but as the saying goes, the devil hides in the details. and there is one - and he is tall, mr prime minister - who totally contradicts the fine ambitions displayed. i am referring to your insistence on ratifying at all costs this 20th century relic, the draft free trade agreement between the european union and mercosur. this is a stubbornness which you share with your spanish colleague pedro sánchez, a socialist like yourself. and then we don't follow you, and then we don't follow you at all! this project, if ratified, would be a disaster for the climate and biodiversity as it would increase deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions. it would be a disaster for our farmers, who today are already burdened by an endless race for productivity and who tomorrow will face unfair competition, while suicides are already decimating the agricultural world. it would be a disaster for the workers there, who would suffer massive job losses in the industrial sector, but also for the environmentalists, who are already paying with their lives today to defend this common good that is the amazon. this would be a health disaster, first because our plates would be even more overrun with pesticide-laden food products, most of which are banned elsewhere in europe, and also because massive deforestation coupled with intensive animal husbandry is promoting the transmission of diseases such as covid-19 to humans. what's all this for? growth, you tell me. let us talk about it: 0.1 percentage point of gdp more for the european union and the same for mercosur. no, the real objective is to increase the profit margins of the multinationals by putting ever more pressure on the planet and all life, including humans. and this, at a time when our planet and our societies, undermined by inequality, are already on the brink of disruption. mr prime minister, this treaty is neither done nor to be done. and it is not by accepting a little statement here or a protocol there that he would become virtuous. mr. prime minister, you may put lipstick on a pig, it remains a pig. for too long, the majority of european socialists, in the name of growth and jobs, have swallowed the myth that what is good for the multinationals and those they enrich is good for our societies. i say to you, wake up! mr prime minister, if you take seriously the principle that none of our policies can worsen the environmental and social situation of the planet, the famous 'do no harm principle', you must relegate the treaty with mercosur, at any rate as it is being negotiated today, to the dustbin of history. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not a mere 'scramble for the future', but rather a 'scramble for the future'.
for the ecr group. - mr. talman, i'm not going to tell you. welcome to the chamber, prime minister costa. believe me, you have work to do. there's work to be done. i would like to make three points. the eu recovery fund. what exactly is meant by the solidarity fund? for example, italy gets 9 billion for health care, 17 billion for gender equality, and the very largest part, 75 billion, goes to climate change. what does this have to do with corona? after the united states and germany, italy has the largest gold reserves. perhaps only a small part of that reserve could be used? why should swedish taxpayers be involved in funding this? using 75 billion euros from the corona fund for climate change in italy is it solidarity with the swedish taxpayers? you can call it whatever you want, the corona fund, the next-generation fund. i call it that because sweden is an atm for southern europe. next, i'd like to discuss vaccination passes, and i hope you'll make a contribution. will freedom of travel in the future be possible only for the possessor of such a thing? so we're gonna start dividing people into categories now? this is a frightening example of how the corona crisis is being used to create a federal state. finally, the freedom of speech. i see nothing of this in the portuguese programme. big tech companies are the new rulers. they decide who gets to speak. it is the law that sets the limits of what is illegal or not to express on social media, not the political preferences or arbitrariness of the platform owners. and the right to have an account should be the guiding principle. good luck to portugal! i hope you can make a difference.
mr president, tasks and challenges facing the portuguese eu presidency are clear. but from a long list let me just highlight two which require special attention and without which our european union cannot last – and thank you, mr costa, for elaborating on both. first, solidarity and granting of benefits of economic cooperation to all member states i.e. strengthening the social pillar, closing the wage gap across our continent and between the periphery and the core countries, we just cannot afford to have winners and losers of european cooperation. second, strengthening the rule of law and democratic institutions by implementing the rule-of-law mechanism adopted here recently. but first and foremost, the portuguese presidency should depart from its predecessors’ bad habit of making decisions behind closed doors just in the interests of a few member states and particular interests. there is nothing more damaging and disengaging than this practice. the eu must be transparent and work for the benefit of its member states, all 27 of them.
mr president, mr prime minister antónio costa, madam president of the commission, the portuguese presidency begins today with a deep regret and a window of hope. we are all aware of the fact that the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. on behalf of the prime minister, i pay tribute to all of them and their families, and i express my heartfelt thanks to the health professionals. speaking of health. do you have any plans to coordinate government responses to restrictive measures? if we had opted for coordination at christmas and followed the french, german and italian examples, the figures in portugal would not have been so tragic. now you're willing to bet on that coordination? speaking of the economy, with the terrible effects of this wave, will you propose an emergency programme to support the sectors most affected in the short term, youth employment, tourism, catering? as for the recovery fund, what are you going to do to make sure that the money is well spent? that is one of the functions of the european public prosecutor's office, to combat fraud and corruption involving european funds. i shall not ask you about that because there is an urgent debate which, at the request of the government, has been postponed from yesterday to today. so, as you are here, i challenge you. represent the council in person in that debate. it is the right place to explain itself and i am pleased that it has finally become the conference on the future of europe after having so much devalued it in december 2019 and throughout the first half of 2020. finally, a personal note. we who have known each other and lived together for so many years, with respect, kindness and a democratic sense. he's in the house of european democracy, which he was a member of. here, face to face, tell us do you really think that members of parliament from all parties and all member states have joined in an international conspiracy against portugal, the portuguese state and government? you really have the nerve to repeat here that this was staged in front of everyone? believe me, the psd members will always be on the side of portugal and europe. i will work for portugal and the portuguese government to succeed, but i will work as always, without fear of threats, without fear of intimidation.
madam president, mr prime minister, it is in difficult times that the character and capacity of peoples, individuals and institutions are revealed. as a portuguese and a european, i am proud of the clarity and courage with which the portuguese presidency has defined and is putting its priorities into practice. a pragmatic definition, because when people are suffering, as so many are suffering from the health, economic and social impacts of the pandemic, pragmatism is the first principle. the response to the needs of citizens is a humanistic duty and the antidote to populism. and we know, even from experience in portugal's domestic politics, that there are those who do not hesitate to spread false narratives to weaken the ability to comply. and that is what mr paulo rangel did in his speech. in this afternoon's debate everything will be clarified again about the appointment of the european prosecutor by portugal and i hope then that the honourable member will have the humility to apologise. but we will. we will do so by making the most of the new cycle of solidarity cooperation within the union, by implementing the common vaccination strategy, by making progress in the progressive establishment of a health union, by deepening the social dimension of the energy tradition and the digital realization and, at the porto social summit, by giving space to implement new concrete measures to tackle inequalities, new precariousness and dignity. we'll go further than that. today marks the beginning of a new cycle in global geopolitics with the inauguration of the new american administration. it is time for a new multilateralism with more strategic autonomy. the summit with india, the digital tie-up with south america, the special attention to relations with africa, the new cycle of transatlantic relations mark the first steps of the european union in this new cycle. mr prime minister, the connection of the ellalink submarine cable from south america to sines is, moreover, a sign of the clear realization that no strategy to combat climate change or to achieve inclusive digitisation will succeed if it is only european. the more global strategies are developed, the more european they will be.
madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, some of the priorities of the portuguese presidency of the union are interesting, others are much more worrying, raising fears, in particular, of an increase in the risk of censorship on the internet and the restriction of digital freedoms. on the contrary, recent events in the united states should encourage us to fight against the gafa's domination and its desire to privatize public freedoms outright. on the implementation of the european recovery plan: while support for our devastated economies is obviously vital, i remain doubtful about the recovery plan itself, of which nothing is known, including the financing, and whose expenditure by the member states will be subject to close scrutiny, once again, by the european commission. all the pretexts are good for more centralisation in brussels, even though bureaucratic rigidity, lack of anticipation and lack of agility have characterised the european institutions throughout the health crisis. with this recovery plan, my country, france, will receive a total of €35 billion less than what it pays, even though we are one of the most affected countries. this is probably another great victory for emmanuel macron on the european stage. the portuguese presidency also wants to deepen the single market. but what this market needs, before it goes deeper, is protection! we must fight unfair competition, we must re-industrialize to gain independence on the world stage. we need better food security for our nations and better health for our people. we must increase controls and impose compliance with our standards on those who want to sell on european soil. the mercosur agreement would be a real betrayal of our farmers, it would be dangerous for our fellow citizens, and it would be disastrous for the environment. portugal, the great country of european conquerors and explorers, should show the way to independence, power and the radiance of our civilization and our nations rather than remain engulfed in the old globalist dogmas whose application leads to our degradation today and threatens us with disappearance tomorrow.
madam president, prime minister, i’m happy to see on the portuguese presidency programme several references on the need to improve democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the european union. however, to be honest it leaves me a little puzzled seeing these commitments, but at the same time not seeing any real progress to overcome serious situations that we are currently having over these matters. i’m sure you would agree that it is untenable that a member state has been keeping politicians and civil society activists in jail or exile for more than three years now for supporting a demographic vote in catalonia. this is a situation that simply cannot hold any longer and which indeed contradicts eu values. therefore, i’m asking you, prime minister, as holder of the presidency of the council, to encourage the spanish government to take, during this semester, clear steps towards dialogue with catalonia, to engage in political negotiations with the catalan government and to find a solution for our pro-independence leaders, which should be based on an amnesty law.
mr president, i have noticed a certain irony. italy has received so much money from the multiannual budget, over 200 billion euros, that the coalition partners in the italian government had so many quarrels that the government was in crisis. i thought the relief fund would provide stability. but maybe italy got too much money. the president of the italian central bank, mr visco, said last year in elsevier that italy - and i quote - does not need money, but reforms. the italian fishermen are losing around 100 billion euros a year because of the failure to collect vat. italy will receive 85 billion from the 750 billion euro corona aid fund. the netherlands receives very little but guarantees 43 billion in case countries cannot repay the money lent by the commission. so the netherlands is a cash machine. perhaps the best way to solve the italian government crisis is to give up a large part of that 200 billion. less money means less fighting. the netherlands is also in crisis and can therefore use its money perfectly well.
madam president, prime minister costa, welcome to the european parliament. portugal is holding the presidency of the council of the european union for the fourth time, and whenever portugal held the presidency in the past, it was linked to important moments for the further development of the european union. it was the portuguese presidency in 1992 when the maastricht treaty was signed, negotiated during the dutch presidency, signed during the portuguese presidency. the 2007 treaty of lisbon: negotiated, agreed, and signed under the portuguese presidency. it became fundamental law for all of us, for the european union. and the portuguese presidency in the year 2000 marked decisive steps towards the accession to the european union for some member states in the south and in the east of the continent – malta, slovakia, latvia, lithuania, bulgaria, and my home country, romania. so europe owes a lot to previous portuguese presidencies of the european union, and the moment in time now is equally important. the portuguese presidency needs to lay the ground for the european union of the future – more innovative, based on research, digital, based on a process of greening which works for the economy, works for people and works for enterprise. in december we managed to make important decisions: we agreed on the budget of the european union for the next seven years, and we agreed on the biggest economy rescue package that the european union has ever done. now, prime minister costa, it’s time that we make this work. money needs to arrive to people in need, to enterprises in need, to regions, very soon. in two weeks’ time will take here in the plenary of parliament the final vote for the recovery and resilience facility, and i’m calling upon you, prime minister, to work with the member states to also do the last steps at national level, specifically ratifying the own-resources decision so that we give the european commission the permission to go to the market, to borrow the money so that it can reach the people in need very soon. thank you very much, prime minister costa, good luck for the next six months.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new portuguese presidency leaves while we are still dealing with the coronavirus emergency, but we must start rethinking the future of europe. there is much to be done, but first of all we must ensure the health of europeans through the coordinated vaccination plan and restart the economy with next generation eu, a historic instrument made possible by those who believed in europe and in the strength of its unity in spite of those who, still today, from these banks, are pushing for precisely those measures that allow european resources to reach citizens and businesses as quickly as possible. the adoption of the national recovery plans must now be the focus of our attention: we need not just any national recovery plans, but recovery plans that can turn this dramatic crisis into an opportunity to radically change the development model, to make it more personally tailored, environmentally and socially sustainable, with a particular eye on those who have lost their jobs and on the new generations, who risk bearing the burden of the next debt if we are not able to invest today in projects for the growth of tomorrow. these are the only conditionalities we'll accept. good work, president.
madam president, i wish the portuguese presidency good work. last year, the eu showed courage, vision and solidarity in its pandemic response and climate policy, as well as in the rule of law crisis. but sadly, the council was more often part of the problem than the solution. there are too many leaders on the conservative side who still believe that silence, autocrats and their corruption is what holds europe together. but they are wrong. further appeasement of and concessions to autocrats will only embolden them and make europe weaker. the portuguese presidency now has the chance to be wiser. the other thing that makes europe weaker are the trojan horses within the union who misuse the unanimity rule. just look at the outrageous arrest of alexei navalny and at mr szijjártó, an eu foreign minister who will pay a friendly visit to moscow this friday. we will be never be a global player if we play like this. i hope the portuguese presidency will be a partner in fixing this broken system and thus making europe a truly global player.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have taken a huge step towards a much stronger and more united european union. social affairs and health have been a matter for the member states for a very long time. yet in this epidemic, in this crisis, the european union has done much more to contain the epidemic, much more to mitigate the social consequences than many member governments. unfortunately, including the government of hungary. the european union has mobilised money like never before, and it has been possible to use it with unprecedented ease and flexibility. it really opened up the possibility of helping people directly. so i would like to thank the governments of the countries of europe for showing solidarity in the council. i would like to thank the european party families for putting aside natural competition and being able to reach an agreement in parliament, and i would like to promise everyone that this money will not go to illiberal dictators and oligarchs, but to the people, where it was intended to go.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the main means of combating climate change is to shift to an environmentally conscious and sustainable economy. but that's not going to be feasible if we just focus on renewable energy. supporting the circular economy is therefore essential, as we can only meet our emissions targets if we also launch this model at eu level and operate it at industrial level. what is certain is that the transition to a circular economy will create new economic and employment opportunities and can bring significant environmental and social benefits through more efficient use of resources. the implementation of the circular economy action plan is therefore of particular importance for member states and union regulators. i believe that even greater efforts will be needed to implement waste legislation. the good news is that despite the pandemic, industrial players, like in my country, hungary, are already working on innovative solutions, so we can reduce emissions with this. at the individual level, the reinforcement of appropriate education and conscious consumer behaviour would be very important. i ask the commission to accelerate the work already started on these policy areas in order to enable member states to start the transition to a circular economy as soon as possible.
we did a great job. politicians, governments, parliamentarians from all over europe came together and created the largest financial fund in european history. and the reconstruction fund, set up in the middle of the crisis, is about the future. we were not just trying to heal our wounds, we were trying to help europe in the 21st century. that's why there is no government, no parliament, no politician who can decide alone, without the citizens, without the municipalities, without the people, what a country needs in the 21st century. that's why the government that doesn't listen to the people, that stifles consultation, that tricks with dialogue, believe me, is the government that wants to steal. and i'm going to ask the commission: this money should go directly to the municipalities and the civilians.
mr president, this parliament fought for and delivered legal guarantees for the protection of our historic recovery fund so that taxpayers’ money does not get diverted by corruption. so that this time, it’s not viktor orbán’s son-in-law scooping up these funds. one of these guarantees was that member states must involve local authorities, because people on the ground need to have a say in how this money is being spent. a colleague of mine is deputy mayor in charge of development for szeged, the third largest city in hungary. up until this day, he has not seen any meaningful documentation, let alone been consulted, about the needs of his constituents, and mayors all across hungary tell us just the same. budapest is in urgent need of funds for zero-emission transport development and there are recovery funds for that, but they are not being consulted. so how does this square with the legal obligation to involve local stakeholders? how can the commission make sure that member states do not breach their obligations to consult? citizens of szeged, budapest, hungary and communities all across europe deserve an answer for that.
madam president, colleagues, the officer! the other day, we heard from the editor-in-chief of one of russia's state propaganda channels, rt, that the time has come to annex the territories of eastern ukraine to russia. although the kremlin denies this, i have no doubt that the idea did not spring from the head of the editor-in-chief mentioned. the uplink is a kind of probe. it measures the outward-inward reactions. the annexation of crimea was preceded by similar phenomena. after all this, i think we should strengthen and even expand our security policy relationship with ukraine. without the security of ukraine, the security of the european union is not guaranteed. we must be prepared for the fact that the present state of calm, the apparent state of calm, will not remain. putin has growing domestic problems at home, and such provocations can be precursors to more serious events. therefore, if moscow goes further, it must immediately respond with more effective sanctions.
madam president, following the historic establishment of the eu recovery fund last year, the eu has received once again a golden opportunity to demonstrate strength and solidarity in fighting an unprecedented crisis by making vaccines available for 27 member states, regardless of whether they are rich or poor, powerful or small. there would have been a double benefit: providing protection for 450 million citizens and demonstrating european unity, but by now it is quite evident that the commission’s management was far from perfect. the announcement of export controls on the vaccine effectively triggered a hard border in ireland, something which we have been trying to avoid for three years. and the eu lags behind for whatever reason: only 3% of our population is vaccinated. how on earth do we want to champion covax if we can’t even get our own population vaccinated? even with all the blunders you are quite right, madam von der leyen, it is still better that we have the commission in the driver’s seat, but, all those that have faith in european cooperation are losing hope, and all those that are happy to see it stumble are getting a boost. there are two questions that are arising. what are the lessons learned? some of that you have answered already, but who is responsible? i hope to receive an answer to that question.
mr president, we have come to parliament this morning for another debate on vaccination. we're no doubt frustrated that things aren't going our way. but think of the tens of thousands of nurses across the european union who went back to work this morning, knowing that they are preparing for a new "code black", the mutated version of the virus that could have a major impact on the capacity of hospitals. as they persevere, so must we persevere and correct where necessary. i think the european commission's proposals this morning are good in that respect. i listened very carefully to the european council and i heard one omission and one understatement of the year. the omission manfred weber has already mentioned, its our external borders. it is unacceptable that one member state has closed off its airspace for south american flights, yet you can easily still fly to madrid and then have free access to the entire european union. we asked a year ago to fix this and to have a common approach, and we insist on that today. the understatement of the year was, of course, the remark that companies may have underestimated their capacity to produce. yes, hiccups are normal, and then together we try to fix it, like with pfizer, and i think we did. but some companies give the impression that they are acting in bad faith, and there the epp believes that with regard to pre-financing that was given up front to set up production, we should be able to take that away, take it back if companies don't deliver. and i know i'm over time, but i want to make one important remark when it comes to ...[...] paper that is very very patient. what's on paper doesn't always get delivered. and with the johnson & johnson vaccine, we need to be careful that if fill and finish is done in the us, we get it back. prime minister rutte also has to speak with president biden. this subject should be at the top of his list.
madam president, madam president of the commission, madam minister, the stakes are high. to fight the pandemic, to minimize the health, social and economic consequences as much as possible, we all know that vaccination is certainly the best solution. to do this, madam president, you have chosen the community approach and the joint acquisition of vaccines at european level, and we can only commend your decision. to keep european citizens safe, you took responsibility by focusing on safe and effective vaccines authorised by the european medicines agency, at a time when others were making different safety choices. thank you for these choices. but today, there is an urgent need to vaccinate, especially the most vulnerable. we must first of all win the trust of european citizens in the vaccination process and there can be no trust without transparency. we need access to the contracts signed between europe and big pharma, access to all contracts, access to liability clauses. we must be able to play our full role as defenders of the rights of our fellow citizens, and i thank you for your proposal to set up a contact group between the commission and parliament. secondly, madam president, you said that the vaccine is a global commons and i agree with you. but if that is the case, we must be able to produce the number of vaccines needed urgently. use every tool at your disposal to force the pharmaceutical companies to honour their contracts! it is unthinkable, in the midst of the pandemic and the spread of variants, that we are being held back by the inability of laboratories to produce enough vaccines. the scientific miracle that is the creation of these vaccines cannot be sabotaged by logistical chaos. and even though production is complex, sharing of patents by industry through voluntary licensing to other laboratories is essential. we need to increase vaccine production on european soil to respond to the emergency and continue to build our international solidarity, whatever the cost. this must be the meaning of the europe of health, because there will be no solution without solidarity.
madam president, i strongly support a joint european approach in vaccine procurement. it shields us from toxic divisions and helps smaller member states like my own. but, colleagues, we have been calling for transparency of vaccine purchases for half a year now. it is very good to have a commitment on this, but, madam president of the commission, we should have heard this speech last june. it was clear from the very beginning that extra efforts need to be made to increase transparency. what we have heard until now was a lack of clear communication, avoiding parliamentary scrutiny and refusing questions from journalists. in a crisis it’s a recipe for disaster. uncertainty is everywhere these days, and our citizens expect to have all the information about timelines, production, delivery, what they will get when, and how. if something goes wrong, they also deserve to know why. who took the decision to refuse millions of extra doses of the frontrunner vaccines? who negotiated? which member states were dragging their feet? we need to know that because accountability and scrutiny are not unnecessary nagging, but are the cornerstones of democracy and our number one job as parliamentarians. we will fulfil this role in the future as well.
madam president, fellow members of the house of representatives, please remember the beginning of the pandemic, when the richer countries, the richer member states, were able to get the better quality equipment faster, while the poorer member states got the leftovers, and most of all at a higher price. however, the hungarian government was able to make this situation worse. they bought enough ventilators from china to supply germany. these are still in storage today, probably along with the mandarin instruction manual. and that's why i'm particularly pleased that we're now doing the licensing, the manufacturing, the whole process together at the european union level. it's not an easy task, because we need to vaccinate 500 million people. please remember for a moment that the development and licensing of vaccines has been funded in no small part by european taxpayers. however, even so, the whole process is much more transparent, traceable than in the case of some member states, which, for example, in hungary, authorized the russian and chinese vaccines before they would have been familiar with the documentation.
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council, mrs von der leyen, for her contribution to the debate. in the fight against the coronavirus, numbers are key, because the speed of the vaccination process is a matter of lives. unfortunately, however, centralised vaccine procurement continues to fall short of the expectations of citizens and member states, putting at risk the lives of europeans and a faster restart of the european economy. the eu's immunization rate is still below 4 percent, while in britain it is close to 20 percent, but we can also mention the united states, israel and serbia. the current situation, which is already very bad, is only worsened by the populism represented by the hungarian left, which in my country, hungary, lives by anti-vaccination demagogy, and here in brussels attacks the president of the european commission on a partisan basis. i believe that the european commission and the european medicines agency should have the responsibility and the duty to procure and authorise the safest vaccines as soon as possible, regardless of who manufactures them. efficiency and accessibility cannot be a geopolitical issue when people's lives are at stake. the formula is simple: if you're fast enough, you save lives, and if you're slow, you lose lives. more intensive, faster negotiations and a more proactive approach by the eu to vaccine procurement are needed. for the european commission's vaccine procurement project to be successful, we need to act now. we are all ready and we support you in this, madam president.
the following agenda item is attached to the agenda for the meeting: 'declarations by the council and the commission on the democratic control of social media and the protection of fundamental rights' (2021/2512 ((rsp)). i remind members that no debate in this chamber will be held on the basis of a request for an oral question, nor will we accept a greeting card. the first speaker on behalf of the council is ana paula zacarias.
dear colleagues, now that the interventions in the name of the political groups have ended, i would like to remind you that we have a very long speaker list in this debate, a really long one. so the only way to keep to the time is if you keep to your speaking time. i would like to say that i am going to be very strict and very loud and very serious about keeping to the speaking time, so please keep to your speaking time.
madam president, while the internet widened the scope of social dialogue and freedom of speech, the past decade revealed the unfortunate truth that the internet also grants unlimited space for extremist ideologies. it also showed that dangerous groups and echo chambers can be formed not only in the third world with deep social divisions, but also in the united states and elsewhere in the developed world. populists are quick to exploit the advantages offered by social media, and where they have a grip on power they already started speaking about regulating it themselves. in my native hungary, the orbán government is already drafting national legislation to regulate social media and the internet. we have no doubt about their real intentions: provide legal protection for the next smear campaign and sabotage the work of the opposition. self-regulation is no longer sufficient. it requires action internationally and simultaneously in fighting fake news and shaping public democratic discourse. it is high time to create a european public media service.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the platform-driven, open internet has been taken over by a few companies. algorithms powering social media can influence election results and fuel violent confrontations. lies can shake societies. until the next case capitol happens, we don't want to have to wonder who's responsible for deleting the fake news or closing the account. the answer can't be, no one is responsible. the democratically elected decision-makers have a responsibility to keep the legislation up to date, including on the platforms. the eu must protect the fundamental rights of its citizens, including the security of their use of social media. transparency and auditability must be required. we can't trust or intervene if we don't know how the algorithms are designed. as data moves globally, we need to seek cooperation with countries that share our values at the un and the oecd, and the eu and the us can work together. we must act boldly and quickly, because democracy and the rule of law can also be lost.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i'm glad the european union has recognized the need to regulate big tech. the problem is that it's also occurred to autocratic leaders who don't want to do the same for the benefit of the people, but only to consolidate their own power. after poland, the hungarian government has announced that it wants to bring facebook under its own jurisdiction. are we really going to let a fidesz official appointed by viktor orbán tell us what hungarians can post on facebook? would we really let that happen, knowing viktor orbán and his attitude to free publicity? because let's not doubt that the hungarian government's only goal is to conquer the last piece of the hungarian public, social media. my fellow members of the house of representatives! that's why we need european regulation to prevent this and to speak up for ordinary people against the giant tech platforms, not for those in power. it's time to pass a fair facebook law, and it's time to stop the new censorship laws from being introduced in europe.
before we continue the debate, i would like to announce the results of the first round of voting today.
the next item is the continuation of the debate on the council and commission statements on 25 years after the beijing declaration and platform for action: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
mr president, this 25-year milestone since the beijing declaration is a moment of reflection. we honour the women who shattered glass ceilings and fought for progress. it’s because of them that i can be here today, in a chamber that looks a little bit more like them. but progress has been slow and uneven, also within the eu. in one of the richest regions of the world there are still women skipping work or school because they cannot afford menstrual hygiene products. abuse in maternity wards still exists, and there is still a taboo around it. unpaid care work still falls mostly on women, and we are still being asked in job interviews about our plans to have children. i was as well. and we have governments within the union that openly campaign against the istanbul convention, against combating domestic violence. and they say it is against their values. as if violence could ever be ‘a value’. and we have legislative proposals to fight against many of these problems but the council has been sitting on it and not providing solutions. so today i demand: the eu-level ratification of the istanbul convention; a european care deal; and binding commitments instead of empty words. because actions speak louder than words, and women’s rights are human rights. stand up for it today as well.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on uganda (2021/2545 ((rsp)) *. __________* see minutes of the meeting.
please keep to your speaking time. unfortunately, because of the technical solutions, i cannot take away the floor but i can be very loud. i just wanted to ask you not to touch the microphone. we have a very fragile solution this morning so please don’t touch the microphone with your hands.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 12.28 p.m.)
the following item is inserted in annex i to regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council: i remind members that no debate in this chamber will be held on the basis of a request for an oral question, nor will we accept a greeting card.
i'll close this discussion.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the humanitarian situation in ethiopia (2021/2542 ((rsp)).
mr. president, i have to ask you... climate change is a shared concern. this mechanism is one of the means of achieving the common emission targets and maintaining the competitiveness of european industry, and should be designed to complement and thereby reinforce existing measures. in addition to maintaining the ets and free allocations, we must also protect our industry from the further risk of coal leakage! however, i do not believe that the cbam alone can be a sufficiently effective tool for this. i therefore ask the commission to base its legislative proposal for 2021 on thorough impact studies broken down by industry and to consult intensively with industry representatives, as poorly designed regulation could also jeopardise the competitiveness of the union.
madam president, please. it's been almost a year and a half since we declared a climate emergency here in the european parliament. we have adopted the climate act, setting out the goal that by 2050 europe will be the first carbon-neutral continent. it was a great achievement and a very important milestone for all of us. but what good is all this if the industries that produce carbon dioxide are shifted outside europe? it is essential and important for the success of the european green transition that europe not only makes jobs greener, but also preserves those jobs it has made greener. we cannot afford to be lagging behind, but must find appropriate responses to these challenges when designing our trade and customs protection policies.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the current pandemic is a health crisis with unprecedented adverse impacts on our society. it is our responsibility to learn from these lessons and to use them to strengthen ourselves to overcome this crisis. i believe that the eu health programme can provide opportunities for all of this. while fully respecting the competence of the member states, the european union should strengthen its coordination activities in order to be able to respond effectively to any health emergency. we must not allow the implementation of this programme to be characterized by a sluggishness similar to that of the failed vaccine procurement. it is important that we act effectively to support the necessary transformation of health and care systems, the fight against cancer, the management of drug shortages and the development of digital health!
mr president, in the past decade, the hungarian ruling party, fidesz, has adopted the communists’ salami tactics: a complex, intricate mix of legislative, administrative means and corruption to centralise media and kill pluralism, step by step. as a result, no competition is possible in the market—based media, all regional media are in the hands of fidesz, and public media have become the number one propaganda channel, with the objective to disseminate the false narrative and fake news of an authoritarian regime. as the problem is not entirely hungary—specific, i propose a solution at eu level: the creation of a european public broadcasting and news service, which would be independent from both national governments and advertising revenues, financed by the european taxpayer and eu—wide, with all member states obliged to operate it. it would bring the benefit of objective information for all european citizens and a narrative that would strengthen our european identity, unity and cohesion against the fake news of populists. if we finally launch the conference on the future of europe, let’s include this on the agenda and invite citizens and civil society to debate this urgent topic.
mr president, media relations with power should never be cosy. the mission of journalists is to report rigorously on all the nooks and crannies, even the most obscure, and to watch over political power. and they should be protected to do just that. unfortunately, too often, independent media outlets are bullied, while submissive media are promoted as part of the machinery to undermine the rule of law. can you imagine a member state where journalists and power are so close that judicial rulings always reach the press before they reach the affected parties? or where the press informs about fabricated judicial accusations that take people to long pre-trial detentions, but eventually everything is proven to be completely false? or where the press remains silent for 40 years while the king amasses a huge fortune, acting as the middle man of arms sales and state favours to theocratic autocracies? guess where. not poland, not hungary, not slovenia. it’s spain again. so it’s not a surprise that researchers at the european institute have found that spain is the european country where the right of information is the least protected.
mr president, madam secretary of state, madam commissioner, freedom of the press is a fundamental freedom in a state governed by the rule of law and in a democratic society. but it is not enough to praise or extol freedom of the press. governments must respect this freedom and we in the european union must ensure that this freedom is respected. it is true that the cases of hungary and poland are extremely worrying and should be denounced. but, mind you, you don't violate press freedom just by changing laws. in countries such as malta and slovakia, with socialist governments, where journalists are murdered, freedom of the press is being conditioned by putting the right to life in question, as was the case with caruana galizia and ján kuciak. and that 's why i say here: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the council has the power to activate article 7. you don't need unanimity for that. and so i challenge the portuguese presidency, which swears to uphold the rule of law, to invoke article 7 against hungary and poland, and thus to translate what is so far a purely formal declaration on the defence of press freedom.
mr. president, please! respected ! i have always proudly represented slovenia in the european parliament. slovenia, which has been able to defend democracy, freedom, the rule of law, human dignity. i don't feel that pride today. if there wasn't something really wrong in slovenia, we wouldn't be discussing it. i never imagined that we would talk about my country as a place where the authorities try to silence the media. you hear two different stories today, but the truth is one and the vice-president of the commission has confirmed it. prime minister's communication, shocking attacks on journalists: to mention just one example, the prime minister tweeted that two critical journalists were retired prostitutes, discrediting a public broadcaster for critical reporting. the financial depletion of the slovenian press agency, the pressure on its director, the attempts to change media legislation that would allow for a significantly greater political interference continue. it's about undermining and stigmatizing public services in this country. i want slovenia to hold the presidency of the council of the european union with distinction, but unfortunately we are not on that path and i am very worried about what will follow. i want what's best for my country, but without action, the price for political hijacking of the media and independent journalism will be too high. respected, it's not just our health that's at risk, it's media freedom, it's our democracies that are at risk.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in ten years, viktor orbán has dominated the hungarian media market, silencing those opinions he does not like, such as origo, index, népszabadság and klubrádió. only to mention the main victims of the fidesz government's purge. is it okay that the government is funding fidesz-friendly newspapers with public funds, when independent media hasn't seen a government advertisement in years? is it okay that in hungary the mass media is nothing but a mouthpiece for government propaganda, where opposition politicians are invited once every four years? is it okay that the last piece of hungarian opposition public, social media, is now being targeted? the answer is simple: no. there's nothing right about that. although the rule of law report highlights the problems of the media situation in hungary, europe still has no answer to these problems. while the example is catchy. today, the hungarian practice is also used in slovenia and poland. to prevent this, we need european solutions. we need to make media ownership transparent. we need europe to act on the independence of media authorities. and we also need european regulation to protect social media from autocratic leaders who want to censor.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i think this parliament has been abundantly clear about what it expects from the commission. when a legal act is adopted and enters into force, it should be used in applicable situations by the commission, especially when it deals with such crucial matters as the functioning of democracy. but it unfortunately seems to me that the commission follows a different logic, and that is to be very, very cautious with any activities that could potentially further escalate existing conflicts with member states. the story goes like this: that if the commission acts, for example, by activating the rule of law conditionality, it would fuel eventually an anti-european sentiment in countries like, let’s say, hungary or poland, when actually when you look at the situation, we have got to a point where the opposite is true. if the european commission fails to act in defence of the rule of law and fundamental rights, there will be a rise in anti-european sentiment – not by the usual suspects, but by the people who have for years defended the european union in these countries, who have stood up for the primacy of eu law: the judges, the prosecutors, the lawyers who have upheld the treaties, the ngos who have defended fundamental rights and democracy, the people who demonstrated for their rights in the streets, the many who have counted on the assurances that the european union is an area of freedom, justice and security, and that the commission will indeed defend fundamental rights and democracy. listen to these people, mr commissioner, not only the governments in the respective countries. and lastly, mr commissioner, to me, two statements that you have made in your speech seem to be contradictory. on the one hand, you say that objective reasons to activate the regulation will be used from now on. but on the other hand, you also say that there is a waiting period in which you will not act until the ecj has made an assessment. and to me, only one of these statements can be true. so again, this parliament has been clear: use all legal acts, all instruments at hand, and use them now. (applause)
on behalf of the left group. madam president, in november the european parliament agreed with the council on an important regulation which upholds the values of the european union, democracy and the rule of law. in december the council itself, giving in to the blackmail of the polish and hungarian governments, weakened this regulation without having legislative powers, provoking the reaction of the european parliament, which demanded that the council honour its signature and that the commission not lead to the weakening of the regulation and delays. mr. hahn, you've told us a lot but you haven't answered one question: does the abolition of the ban on abortion in poland by the polish government violate the principles and rules of the rule of law? what action have you taken to implement the regulation in force since 1 january to deal with this breach? the great majority of the european parliament demands action, not words, if we are to respect the rule of law and to respect a regulation which has entered into force and which cannot be stopped by the council, because the council simply does not have legislative powers. as the guardian of the treaties, you must not only speak but also act.
madam president, if you buy commitment, you get resentment. it makes no sense to force eu member states into compliance with eu values and rule of law. withdrawal of funds can and will only hurt the wrong people. it will create tension and can release nationalistic sentiments. it can even lead to member states leaving the union. when rights are violated by a member state, any person can turn to the national court, and if this doesn’t resolve the issue, ultimately one can go to the european court of justice. the spending of eu funds must be accounted for and used in a responsible way. transparency is key, but political issues should not be used to delay recovery projects. if the duration of a project goes up, costs will go up, and the commitment to europe will go down.
mr president, do you know who is the best mep and the best president of the european parliament? one who does not unduly delay our proceedings and keeps his time. i just think that time and adherence to certain legal mechanisms, that's also the subject of this debate. and that is why the european people's party was in favour of actually respecting the fundamental, which is the role of law in the member states. the adoption of new rules for the drawdown of grants is an indispensable condition for supporting the long-term budget of the european union for the period 2021-2027, and this has been achieved thanks to the hard work of our group. such legislation also reflects the demands of european citizens, with surveys showing that 77% of the european union's population believe that respect for democratic values should be a condition for receiving european grants. it was a long process, and the result is that a compromise was reached. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) in order to ensure that the agency is able to fulfil its responsibilities in the field of medicinal products for human use. our position on ppe has always been clear. in doing so, we are keeping our promises and protecting the rights of the citizens of the european union.
madam president, on 20 september 2020 the wife and son of a fidesz mp won eur 170 000 for tourism development on the family’s own estate. on 21 october 2020 the eu gave eur 100 000 for a camping site for children. reporters found a resort for lavish parties thrown by the local fidesz mayor’s son. on 21 january 2021 viktor orbán’s son-in-law won eur 600 000 of agricultural subsidies. he has a proven track record of fraud proven by the eu’s own agencies. these are just some of the recent headlines from hungary, and this is the face the european union is showing to my constituents. this is a cash machine for well-connected oligarchs, enabling the money intended to lift up regions with crippling poverty to be captured with little consequence. the rule of law mechanism has the power to put an end to this, but it has to be implemented and enforced. and we all know that this mechanism has been union law since 1 january, so why don’t we use it? no council conclusion and no backroom deal can change law. viktor orbán’s efforts to delay the mechanism until next year’s election is clearly in violation of european law. let’s not assist them. all these years of procrastination has put the entire european project in danger. commissioner, we have waited enough. for this parliament, only meaningful action is necessary. we demand this from you.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it’s a pleasure to address this house on the recovery and resilience facility (rrf), which, as this house knows, is a powerful and ambitious tool for bringing about sustainable and inclusive recovery in europe. the commission is currently engaging very intensively with member states to help them improve and finalise as quickly as possible their recovery and resilience plans. in this context, i would like to thank you for highlighting the important issues of the partnership principle and governance. the implementation of plans will only be successful with strong member state ownership, as well as support from social partners and civil society at every stage of the process. the commission, therefore, attached great importance to stakeholder involvement, as we already made clear in the annual sustainable growth strategy back in september. thanks to the efforts of co-legislators, the rrf regulation contains strong provisions in this regard. member states’ plans will need to include summaries of consultations with relevant stakeholders, for example with local and regional authorities, social partners, civil society organisations and youth organisations. and it’s not just a matter of carrying out the consultations; member states will also need to explain how their plans reflect stakeholders’ contributions. given the scope and also the facility, this is only logical. for instance, member states will need to explain how their plans contribute to enhancing cohesion, taking into account local, regional and national disparities. strong ownership will be crucial for the facility to be a success. a strong governance structure will be important as well. it is member states which are responsible for preparing and implementing their recovery and resilience plans, and payments will be made to them. however, it will be vital to involve local and regional authorities, social partners and civil society in putting plans into practice in the years ahead. this will play a key role in helping to translate ambitious objectives into concrete policy initiatives that will benefit people and businesses on the ground. honourable members, the european parliament will also have an important role to play in the governance of the facility. the commission is looking forward to starting the recovery and resilience dialogues. we stand by our commitment to take into account the views expressed through these dialogues. we have also started work on delegated acts for the scoreboard, the common indicators and the methodology report on social expenditure under that facility. i would also like to say a few words on the sound management of the funds committed under the facility. as this house knows well, the rrf is a performance-based instrument. this means that member states will receive funds once they reach agreed milestones and targets as put forward in their plans and the council implementing decisions. the performance-based nature of the facility is a primary and robust guarantee of sound financial management. in addition, the commission will assess member states’ monitoring and control systems, which they will need to explain in their plans, and member states will need to provide with each payment request a management declaration and a summary of audits carried out at national level, attesting to the fact that all checks and precautions have taken place. these steps will be carried out openly and transparently, providing an opportunity to flag possible cases of serious irregularities, firstly before the rrf coordinators in each member state, who will be obliged to examine if any irregularities took place, and secondly before the commission, olaf or the european public prosecutor, which have the powers to investigate and assess all relevant national records and data. as a last resort, the commission will be able to reduce and recover any amounts affected by serious irregularities that have not been corrected by the member state concerned. in summary, we are confident that all these mechanisms, when applied together, will ensure the sound and correct use of funds committed under the rrf. honourable members, let me conclude here and thank you for your attention. i look forward to your discussion today.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to welcome vice—president dombrovskis back to the european parliament. dear colleagues, more than one month ago, we approved with an overwhelming majority the recovery and resilience facility here in the european parliament. here we have fulfilled our mission to make sure that money reaches people, enterprises and regions affected by the pandemic. now it is the responsibility of member states to make sure that they access this money fast. the first and most important thing which member states have to do is to ratify the decision on own resources so that the commission is given the permission to go to the markets and borrow money. i would like to appeal to all national governments and parliaments not to delay the ratification of the own resources decision. now is not the time to play domestic politics in delaying the ratification of the own resources decision, because this can delay the implementation of the recovery and resilience facility for the whole of the european union. this is why i call upon all pro-european groups here in the european parliament to clearly instruct our national parties, irrespective of whether they are in government or whether they are in opposition, to facilitate a quick ratification of the own resources decision – this is the first and most important thing that national member states have to do. secondly, they have to put forward their plans. we here in the european parliament are ready to make full use of our right to scrutinise these plans, exactly along the lines also described by the vice-president, including on whether local and regional authorities, the civil society, were properly involved. we are looking forward to this work, to make sure that money is well spent, that investments and reforms are incentivised, and that europe comes out of this pandemic stronger, also due to the recovery and resilience facility.
i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems that exist in the area of the internal market and that it is very much aware of the problems that exist in the area of the internal market. and the truth is that when we talk about the recovery plan, i would say that we are almost anxious, because we have worked hard in this parliament to get an agreement and for the plan to come into force as soon as possible and, above all, for the money to reach our countries, which have been so badly hit by the pandemic. we have set many requirements to ensure that this plan is going to be very successful, and i hope that all the member states and the commission are doing everything possible to achieve that success. one of the requirements that, for us, for my group, was a priority was that a dialogue be established with the regions, with the municipalities, with the trade unions, with civil society organisations. this is essential to ensure the coherence of a national plan but that all participants are involved, despite the redundancy. i would therefore like to know what the european commission thinks about the cooperation that the member states should have with the different levels of administration. another requirement was the establishment of different indicators, and i would therefore like to know how the commission is working on this scoreboard. and finally, the regulation: we have established a dialogue with the commission in order to be able to follow up the recovery plan, but until we have that first meeting, of course, this parliament has to continue to play its role of monitoring the european commission. so i would like you to tell us how you see the recovery plans and give us a general assessment of the work being done by the member states.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, local authorities and civil society need to have a say in the allocation of the recovery funds. the regulation is crystal clear about that. this is a guarantee to ensure that crisis relief reaches those communities who need it the most. that is the reason why this parliament and renew europe fought so hard for this provision because this money, the recovery money, belongs to the struggling citizens and businesses and is not for another luxury mansion for a well-connected oligarch or for another business opportunity for viktor orbán’s son—in—law. but we see that this provision on a piece of paper is not enough. we need implementation and we need enforcement, and this is where the problems start. local leaders and mayors all across hungary are sounding the alarm that they have not even seen the recovery plan, that they are kept in the dark and that nobody asks them about the needs of their constituents. the message these leaders are sending to the commission is that they are worried that the recovery plan will be used as an instrument of political favouritism. all across hungary, we are witnessing opposition—led municipalities being kept at a disadvantage when it comes to crisis relief, and they are afraid that the recovery fund will be yet another one of these stories. we cannot allow that. these leaders are pleading to the commission just about wanting to enforce the law. so i’m asking you, vice—president, what efforts the commission is actually making to ensure that member states adhere to their consultation requirements? and why have these efforts, if there were any, not been successful so far? vice—president, anti—corruption guarantees need to be enforced before handing out the money to governments, especially to governments with a proven track record of fraud. vice—president, the time to act is now. this parliament demands this from you.
in writing. the territorial content restriction regulation facilitates cross-border e-commerce and ensures that consumers have equal access to merchants' products and services on the eu market. i believe it is important that our citizens no longer have to worry about being blocked or redirected or having their credit card rejected by a website just because they are from another eu country or are in another eu country. however, the rules should also provide more opportunities for both consumers and businesses in the entertainment and creative sectors in the eu's internal market. i believe that the full impact of the regulation adopted two years ago will only become apparent over time, as there are a number of measures on the eu table related to this regulation and a number of eu legal instruments will become applicable in the coming period. we need to examine whether the principle of non-discrimination in access to goods and services can be extended to non-audiovisual services provided by electronic means, the main feature of which is copyright-protected content.
i would like to thank mr de man. i'm calling you to order, too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2007 the european union and the member states have poured €16 billion of development aid into the bottomless pit of afghanistan, the first recipient of commission support, in addition to €1 billion of humanitarian aid since 1994. the question of the budgetary principles governing the additional €1.2 billion is certainly relevant, but the question of the balance sheet and the justification for such largesse is less relevant than expected. first, afghanistan is still a bankrupt state, with 40% of its gdp coming from international aid, while opium production is at an all-time high. politically, the inauguration of two presidents in 2020 after a contested election has plunged us into an abyss of consternation. on the merits, then, in addition to the critical management of the aid allocated in response to covid-19, it was recently learned that women were excluded by some local authorities from the humanitarian programme. while the uk is largely cutting back on international aid, our taxpayers are also demanding rigour and results, especially now that the taliban are on the threshold of power.
i thank you very much, mrs bilde. i'm calling you to order, too.
member of the commission. – mr president, i really appreciate the european parliament’s very positive role in the decision—making on external funds. this has also been discussed in depth in the context of the proposal for a neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici). following the political agreement of last december and further recent exchanges, the commission is committed to conduct a high—level geopolitical dialogue with the european parliament, whose position will be taken into consideration before the adoption of the indicative programming documents and concerning specific subjects such as the use of the emerging challenges and priorities cushion of the ndici. the budgetary authority will be involved as part of this high—level dialogue.
the debate is closed. we come to the results of the second round of voting today.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 11 march 2021.
ladies and gentlemen, the sanctions imposed by china on five of our colleagues and on the subcommittee on human rights of the european parliament strike at our assembly for standing by the victims of human rights violations and abuses, for defending freedom of expression and for exercising the role of democratic control. parliament is and will continue to be a staunch defender of human rights in the european union and the world. human rights are universal, inalienable and at the heart of european values. we will never be silenced by those who feel threatened by our institution and seek to punish democratically elected members for expressing their views. these sanctions by the chinese authorities are an unacceptable response to our legitimate concerns about human rights issues in china. i would like to express our full support for the five colleagues and the union bodies that have been unfairly affected and to assure our citizens that parliament is not intimidated and will continue to defend human rights and the rule of law. i now give the floor to mr bütikofer, chairman of the delegation for relations with the people's republic of china, and then to mrs maria arena, chairman of the subcommittee on human rights.
chair of the delegation for relations with the people’s republic of china. – mr president, thank you very much for your clear, strong and courageous words. your statement defends the honour of our parliament against aggressive chinese sanctions. you have highlighted the values on which our common work is based, in particular universal human rights. these convictions have never been more important than today. we, as democrats, are united in their defence. i want to thank all the colleagues who have expressed their solidarity with those affected. i want to thank the 281 colleagues from four different political groups from the bundestag that have expressed their solidarity, and i want to thank those governments that have summoned the chinese ambassadors to tell them off. the chinese sanctions signal this is an attack, not just on a few, but on the institution as such, on our human rights subcommittee, on four of the biggest democratic groups in the parliament and on the china delegation. the chinese authorities tell us that they’re only willing to work with us as partners if we’re allowing them to define the confines of acceptable opinions. it is bad enough that freedom of opinion, freedom of speech doesn’t exist in china. we don’t want to allow them to export it. china’s attack on our institutions and fundamental values can be answered effectively if we all stick to two principles: democrats need to have each other’s back, and internationally we have to build a united front of democracies. long live human rights! (applause)
chair of the subcommittee on human rights. mr president, i am speaking as chair of the subcommittee on human rights. we in the subcommittee on human rights have noted the decision of the chinese authorities to impose sanctions on our assembly in retaliation for the council's decision of 22 march to impose sanctions on four chinese dignitaries guilty of serious human rights violations. the subcommittee on human rights, as you know, has the duty to monitor human rights violations in the world and to promote and protect all those who defend these rights, in accordance with the european treaties. i would also like to stress that all the european institutions, whether the commission or the council, have the duty and obligation to respect these treaties. i thank the high representative and i welcome his work, in particular the sanctions mechanism for serious human rights violations which he introduced and which is now proving to be fully legitimate. the chinese response is nothing more or less than an attack on our democracy, on our values and, no doubt, a desire to intimidate our sanctioned colleagues and the work of our subcommittee on human rights. this is an unacceptable punishment. if the chinese authorities think they can silence us, i simply say they are wrong. we will continue to give voice to the pro-democracy movement in hong kong. we will continue to fight against these mass detention camps, against forced labor and any violation of rights imposed on the uyghur community, as we did in 2019 by awarding the sakharov prize to ilham tohti, who is a representative of this community. we will continue to give a voice to all human rights defenders who are threatened or persecuted by the chinese regime. we will condemn all chinese attempts to interfere in the democratic life of the european union and its member states. we will continue to actively denounce human rights violations wherever they occur and will work to ensure that all european institutions put the issue of respect for human rights back on the agenda of all foreign policy instruments. we know that the whole world looks to europe as a land which respects human rights, even if some europeans sometimes forget what that means. it's our duty not to disappoint. we must not let down the european citizens whom we represent and for whom human rights are a fundamental value. not to disappoint the citizens of the world, those for whom it is impossible to express themselves freely, to believe or not to believe freely and sometimes even to love or simply to live. for these citizens of the world, we represent a beacon, we represent a light, a hope, and we cannot abandon them.
ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be commemorating the 200th anniversary of the beginning of the independence revolution in greece. the greek struggle for freedom gave a strong pan-european impetus and shared values led to the intervention of britain, france and russia in that conflict. the revolution ended with the creation of an independent greek state, which has come a long way since then. greece joined the european union in 1981 and has been at the heart of the european project ever since, and we like to remember that. however, march 25 is not just a day of freedom; it's also a day of mourning. today i would like to pay tribute to the victims of soviet deportation: the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the european union's policy on the environment. it is important that we remember together, so that such violations of human rights are never repeated, and that is why i call for a minute's silence. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
the agenda includes the joint debate on the council and commission statements on the preparation of the european council and the digital green certificate (2021/2585 ((rsp)) (2021/2609 ((rsp))). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. as in previous sessions, the parliament's liaison offices in the member states will also be responsible for remote assistance. i thank minister zacarias and commissioner šefčovič for their presence in the chamber.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, while it was initially planned as a physical meeting, president charles michel has decided to turn the european council summit into a video conference in light of the worsening of the covid situation in several member states. all points will remain on the agenda, but the item on russia will be transformed into an information point. in addition, president michel invited president biden for an informal exchange of views on our future cooperation with the united states. one year after the outbreak of the pandemic, covid-19 continues to dominate the agenda and we face serious challenges following the emergence of new spreads of new variants of the virus. only vaccines can offer us a way out of the crisis. we need to do our utmost to help boost vaccine production and ensure more transparency, predictability and the supply of vaccines, so that we can speed up the vaccination campaigns across the eu. to this end, it is fundamental that companies respect their contractual delivery deadlines, and we support the efforts of the european commission in this endeavour. the current epidemiological situation is still of great concern, but when the time comes to start a gradual return to normal life, we should make sure that we act in a coordinated way. looking ahead, we want to make sure that we have solutions that work across member states, and this is fundamental for our citizens, for our societies and for the recovery of our economies. this way, we welcome the legislation proposed by the european commission on the digital green certificate. it is also a key element for the european parliament, and i am glad for this opportunity to discuss this further with you. the council is ready to move fast in these proposals, so we have the certificate and the system functioning – hopefully – before the summer. this means that these proposals have to be dealt with in a very short framework. we do not have a lot of time, and we have to do this in our two institutions and between our two institutions in a spirit of transparency, cooperation and compromise. we should aim to reach a political agreement with the european parliament by may. work has already started at the council preparatory bodies, and the presidency aims to have a negotiating mandate by mid-april. on the content of the proposals, the presidency believes that the european binding approach was necessary to guarantee common rules on the issuance and acceptance of the certificates and also their interoperability, without making vaccination a precondition to travel within the eu. in fact, a number of our citizens feared being discriminated against under this instrument, as not everyone could be vaccinated or wished to be vaccinated. in this regard, we believe that the commission took the right approach when it included in this digital green certificate the question of tests and also recovery certificates. i would like to reiterate the importance of ensuring inclusiveness and of paying attention not to exclude some categories of persons, such as elderly people and those with less access to digital technologies. on data protection, we consider that the principle of data minimisation and the fact that no data will be stored at european level are important guarantees that have been already included in the proposals. furthermore, national personal data regulations will apply. another important aspect to which member states are attached is the need to ensure this interoperability with the work of the world health organization (who), and to continue to work in close collaboration with other international bodies. the implementation of an eu framework and national systems will require significant efforts from member states, as there are many technological challenges. and for this reason, it will be important for them to receive expert technical and financial support from the commission. finally, during the legislative process, we should not underestimate the importance of communicating in the right way on this initiative. the expectations of citizens on reopening europe for travel will only rise as we approach the adoption of these instruments. i would like to raise, very briefly, a couple of other points concerning the eu leaders’ video teleconference (vtc). first, the eu economic response to covid-19 has been steadfast and unprecedented. the regulation establishing the recovery and resilience facility has entered into force. we now need to implement it swiftly to support an eu-wide recovery in accordance with the new european semester guidelines and, of course, the leaders will address this issue. secondly, they will discuss key elements of our economic base, namely the full functioning of the single market, the resilience and competitiveness of our industry and europe’s open strategic autonomy. they will also address the question of the digital future, and here it is important to maintain an ambitious approach and ensure the digital transition is inclusive, leaving no one behind. the leaders will build on the 2030 digital compass and on the digital services act package, which has been dealt with in the council at a very progressive and intensive pace. the leaders will also address digital taxation. the eu stands behind efforts to find a global consensus, but will also be ready to look into a european solution, should there be no progress at international level. finally, the leaders will also dedicate time to discussing external relations, in particular, to foster eu-us transatlantic relations and future cooperation through an informal exchange of views with president biden. this is a very timely debate, taking into consideration the current geostrategic challenges at multilateral level from human rights, as we have seen, to the climate, from health to trade, as well as relations with beijing and moscow. on russia, the president of the european council has provided for just an information point for the leaders. this will take place in the context of the continuous negative pattern of shrinking space for the opposition, civil society and independent voices in russia, which is a source of concern for all of us. they will also discuss turkey. on the basis of the recent report by the high representative and the commission, they will assess the recent developments and discuss the way forward, including in the light of this recent turkey withdrawal from the istanbul convention. the leaders will meet on friday, and at the end of this meeting on friday, they will have a discussion at the level of the euro summit, and in an inclusive format, they will discuss the international role of the euro, so it will be a very long and productive meeting, i’m sure.
vice-president of the commission. – it has now been over a year since europe went into lockdown and overnight our lives were turned upside down as we put all our energies into fighting this terrible virus, which is causing so much suffering in europe and around the world. a year of being limited in what we can do, where we can go, whom we can see, with whom we can meet and this all has understandably led to some pandemic fatigue. but now is not the time to take our eye off the ball. despite some problems with the vaccine procurement and astrazeneca in particular, which continues to under-deliver, we have good reason to hope that the situation will improve in the second quarter. we expect to receive 200 million doses of the pfizer vaccine, 55 million doses of the single jab johnson & johnson vaccine and 35 million doses of the moderna vaccine by the end of the second quarter. this is in addition to the 70 million doses of astrazeneca currently foreseen, albeit far less than the contractually committed 180 million doses. if these estimates prove accurate, we should achieve our target of having 70% of europe’s adult population fully vaccinated by the end of the summer. this is all the more important when we see the worrying developments with the new variants, now representing close to 80% of infections in some countries and to the spectre of the third wave approaching. so, as underlined by president von der leyen last week, we will use the eu’s export authorisation scheme to bolster transparency and ensure reciprocity and proportionality in our vaccine-related dealings with third countries, especially those which manufacture vaccines themselves. i would like to be clear. the mechanism is not an export ban. in fact, so far 380 out of 381 requests for an export authorisation have been approved and with 43 million doses exported to 33 countries since the end of january, the eu is the world’s biggest exporter of vaccines. we will continue to act fairly and responsibly and fulfil our global leadership role. that is also why exports to low and middle-income countries, supplies through covax and exports to the eu overseas countries and territories remain unconditionally exempted. but we need to see fairness and the right balance when assessing the impact of planned exports. this is what the two adjustments to the existing mechanisms adopted today are about – to help us ensure timely access to vaccines for our eu citizens. as the president emphasised, this is an invitation to be open, because open roads run in both directions. we also need to forge an effective and lasting path towards reopening and recovery, one which fully upholds our fundamental principles of non-discrimination and data protection. to this end, last week, the commission put forward a proposal to create a digital green certificate to facilitate safe, free movement inside the eu during the covid-19 pandemic. it will be available free of charge, in digital or paper format and qr codes will help ensure its security and authenticity. the digital green certificate will work in three ways: first, it will offer proof that a person has either being vaccinated, received a recent negative test result or recovered from covid-19 and thus has antibodies. second, it will make sure that this proof is recognised in every member state and third, the certificate will help member states to establish full freedom of movement in a safe, responsible and trusted manner. the commission will build a gateway to ensure all certificates can be verified across the european union and will support member states in the technical implementation of certificates. the aim is to have the system in place by june and for this reason we have to ask parliament to treat this file under the urgent procedure. we are counting on you. this is also an opportunity to influence global standards and lead by example based on our european values. the certificate is only part of our efforts towards a gradual safe and lasting reopening. last week we also adopted the communication laying out what is needed to achieve this, including a common framework for response measures and measures covering testing treatments and vaccine sharing. the communication also covered support for the tourism and cultural sectors and continued support for global efforts to combat the pandemic and announce the future eu strategy on covid-19 therapeutics. also, last week, we adopted the recommendation on the use of waste water monitoring to track covid-19 and its variants. waste water monitoring has proven to be an effective, reliable and relatively cheap way to identify the presence of the virus, allowing for its earlier detection. and finally, we will issue a ‘lessons learned’ communication in june as requested by the european council. moving on from covid-19 matters, the commission, together with the high representative prepared a report on the state of play on political, economic and trade relations between the eu and turkey. on this basis, leaders will give guidance on the way forward. it is clear that we must resolve our differences through dialogue and constructive credible steps on the ground. we therefore deeply regret turkey’s decision to withdraw from the istanbul convention and urge that this be reversed. finally, on 9 march the commission set out its digital vision and goals for 2030. it proposed a digital compass setting out ambitious targets for digital skills, digital infrastructure, the digital transformation of businesses and the digitisation of public administration. in addition, it will guide our international digital partnership. we will also accelerate our work on the regulatory framework to accompany the digital transition. later this year we will present further proposals on artificial intelligence, european digital identity and the single market for data. the third taxation of the digital economy is also a priority and we remain committed to finding a global solution on the reform of the corporate taxation framework by mid-2021 with our partners in the oecd. and we are optimistic about this process. but whatever its outcome, the commission is committed to adopting a proposal on a digital levy by the end of the semester with a view to it becoming a new own resource. i can assure you that we can and we will design a digital levy, which is compatible with the oecd process. i will stop here, honourable members, and i look forward to your questions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – we are in the middle of the third wave, and europeans are dying every day. there are a lot of concerns outside, a lot of people are afraid, even scared. we have new lockdown measures all over europe and a severe economic crisis, probably the biggest since the second world war. that’s why our main message to the council is: please stick together, please act together – we need unity in this critical moment of european history. stop playing games, and we together have to do whatever we can do to vaccinate as many europeans as soon as possible. that’s why the increase of production capacities is key. we really appreciate the work of thierry bretton in this regard. the certificate is a good step. i from ppe group point of view can already clarify that we are in favour of a fast-track procedure, we want to bring this certificate as quick as possible alive. but allow me to also express that the idea of a certificate is not a new idea. we already discussed it in autumn last year. kyriakos mitsotakis already presented this in council in january this year, and now we are in march, and the commission is coming forward with a proposal. i like the proposal, but it is too late. and now you’re coming with a fast-track procedure. normally, we all should really speed up in this process. the most important thing is that we have to keep our summer promise to offer every european a vaccination. the credibility of the european union is already under pressure. we know this, and that’s why this promise is about trust; we have to deliver whatever it takes. i’m also proud, like a lot of colleagues - i think, about the reality, and the situation that we share the vaccines with the rest of the world. but we have to see the reality – the rest of the world is not doing the same. the rest of the world is egoistic. the rest of the world is cold. and that’s why we europeans should not be naive. that’s why i, on behalf of the ppe group, welcome the revision of the export authorisation mechanism; reciprocity and proportionality are key criteria for the future. we’ve sent 9 million vaccines to the uk, and they’ve delivered zero. we’ve sent more vaccines in the last three months to the uk than we have given to spain. dear colleagues, that is a reality, and that’s why we need to be loud and clear – the priority must be the european union, the priority for the next month must be the europeans. we cannot not endanger the lives and health of our fellow citizens anymore. the implementation is now key. we see now the news from astrazeneca. 29 million doses stockpiled in in italy. i don’t know about the background but we need immediate clarification on this. if this is true, vice-president, then i think the commission must immediately prepare a breach of contract procedure as regards astrazeneca. i would also say that it is unthinkable that we from now on export any kind of doses from astrazeneca to the rest of the world until the company is ready to fulfil the contract, which they have with the european union. the export has another element which i want to mention, and that is about the question of who gets then the doses. we’ve sent to saudi arabia more doses in the last three months than to the baltic countries combined. northern macedonia has the highest death rate per capita in the world, and they get zero doses from europe. zero currently. today the decision who gets the exported vaccines is a business question. it is decided at international level by headquarters of big companies, of pharmaceutical companies, but it is not decided by the question where is the biggest need, and by geopolitical questions like the region of northern macedonia. that is not a criteria currently, and that’s why we have to go further. we spend money for covax, but we have no vaccines for covax. that is the reality today, and that’s why we need a general revision of this procedure of the european union. we are not in normal times. i want to also focus on external affairs. i want to thank our president david sassoli and all colleagues who contributed now to the china developments. from a chinese point of view, some colleagues see now sanctions. i say, they’re our heroes in the fight for human rights, and i applaud them, they have so full support of the whole chamber and we are proud of them that they are doing such a great job. the same guiding principle that we fight for the european way of life, for human rights, freedom, democracy, rule of law, equal treatment of men and women in regard to turkey. that’s why we welcome also the statement of the commission towards turkey. that is a step in the right direction. and on russia, let me underline that there is a need, obviously again, to discuss nord stream 2 when joe biden is there. this house was always clear in the last years that is not in the interests of the european union. nord stream 2 harms our neighbours like the ukraine, like our ukrainian friends, and gas is financing the putin system, which is not in the interest of the european union. that’s why nord stream 2 is not a business case at all. we need a political discussion on this. that is at stake when it is about the decision of the european council, and if you allow me finally, mr president, i know that we have tomorrow a discussion about malta. i only want to express, having in mind that daphne caruana galizia was murdered years ago, because she simply did her job in the fight against corruption, and her weapon was her pen. having this in mind that now of one murders said publicly that two ministers were involved in malta in this process, i think that is an issue which we all have to be aware of and have to be concerned about. i say today because i wish that, for once, the european council would also have the strength to discuss these rule of law questions also in the format of the council, and not just leave it to the commission.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the delay in vaccination and the arrival of the fourth wave threaten to delay the european union's goal of returning to normalcy before the summer. we are facing a bleak horizon. if we were counting on the distribution of 160 million doses in the first quarter, the reality reminds us that 70 million have been distributed. and, furthermore, we have breakfasted today with the news - known to all - that 30 million doses of astrazeneca vaccines have been found hidden somewhere in italy. and let me tell you, this is the last straw. because we are not talking about breaches of contracts and commitments that they had made; they are laughing in our faces and we cannot allow that as europeans. it is no longer the time to sit down and talk, to argue, to see how this can be solved, no! it is time to take firm action against a pharmaceutical company that is ruining the reputation of other companies that are actually meeting their commitments or at least trying to do so. i therefore ask the commission to take action in the face of this flagrant attack on the commitments they have made. i agree that banning exports is not and cannot be the solution, because it is also very unwise and we would endanger the supply chain. but i also say that the review of the export control mechanism announced today is late, because it is unacceptable that the united kingdom has received 10 million doses manufactured in the territory of the european union, while the government of boris johnson has not sent a single vaccine to our internal market. so we are talking about something very important here, which is to achieve the objectives and also not to destroy the prestige, not of the european commission - we are not talking about the prestige of the european commission here - but of the european union. we have all supported the european vaccination strategy, but we have to do things right because otherwise people will lose confidence in europe. we cannot resign ourselves to a second black spring sweeping through europe. the next quarter will be crucial: if the distribution of doses is not accelerated, we will face an explosive scenario, with an increase in infections and an increasingly distressed population, which we have to understand. the latest measures presented by the european commission are a positive step: the digital green certificate and the voluntary health stamp for tourism and hospitality are appropriate initiatives to coordinate the reopening and ensure safe travel. but the return of free movement will only be a triumph if the most pressing objective is achieved first, which is to accelerate vaccination. with a slow response to the pandemic, not only are lives lost, but the dream of a rapid economic recovery is dashed, and we risk living in societies trapped by anxiety, by panic, by depression. we've been in this situation for a year and we've asked people to make a lot of sacrifices. we all have brothers and sisters who have had to close a business; friends who have lost their father and mother in less than a fortnight; teenage children or nephews who have been forced to limit their social life to the four walls of their room. we need to be aware of how much we're risking. and alongside vaccination, we also have the huge task of ensuring that the €750 billion recovery fund is implemented swiftly. seven member states have not yet submitted their recovery plans to the commission and 14 have not ratified the own resources. i would remind you that we were urged to act in this parliament, that we had to act and unblock the situation, and now months have passed and we still have to put this ratification of own resources into effect. we therefore ask the member states to do so expeditiously. a delayed recovery will also jeopardise the european union's role in an increasingly multipolar and less multilateral world. in the face of governments like turkey's, which prioritise confrontation over cooperation, we must act with both firmness and dialogue. we must be firm when human rights are violated on turkish soil and in the european union, and we must be open to dialogue when the interests of our citizens are at stake. the attempt by erdogan to outlaw the peoples' democratic party and his decision to withdraw turkey from the istanbul convention cannot go unpunished. after a year of pandemic it has become clear that if we want to overcome this crisis, we must devote all our energy to the vaccination campaign and the implementation of the recovery plan. instead of wasting time, ask yourself this question: will the european union emerge stronger or weaker from the pandemic? the answer is not in infinity, but in yourselves.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, right now we are at a make-or-break moment in our pandemic response. just think back to the early days of the pandemic – to where we were a year ago. we had 27 member states with 27 different strategies. we saw people piled up at borders. we saw a shortage of medicines, a shortage of food. these are sights that were unimaginable to witness in europe in the 21st century. and let’s acknowledge that we’ve come very far from there and we chose the right path, the path to pursue a joint european response, because this is the only way we can get out of the crisis together. but let’s also learn from what went wrong. right now we have a chance with the digital green certificate to do that and also to hear the voice of our citizens, because many millions of europeans are eager to get their lives back and also their livelihood. that very often depends on tourism, on transport, on cross-border trade. but there are also other voices who are afraid about how their data is being used or if they are being discriminated against. so we also have to hear that voice as well. so this is why this parliament will continue to be the voice of those 450 million citizens. we are elected by them and we will do everything in our power to help them in this crucial situation. and we have to understand what’s at stake here, because in the problems witnessed around vaccine procurement, the european union risks becoming the number one scapegoat. we risk becoming the prey of euroscepticism, of those powers who work against the stability of our union and who prey on this crucial moment where many people in europe are living their darkest hours. right now a lot of citizens, frontline workers, really suffer from the covid response. they are struggling and they need us. we need to speed up vaccination. this is the only light at the end of the tunnel. so this is why i am so glad to see the efforts of thierry breton, who really does an amazing job, offering us some good news and some clarity as well, and we need to continue further with this plan. we need to increase the production capacities, to set up more ambitious targets for deliveries, to work together with manufacturers and also to ramp up production. these are the crucial steps we have to follow. and in the wake of these troubles, just as another leader said before me, i was also so shocked to learn about the 29 million astrazeneca vaccine doses that are stockpiled. how can they even justify that? we are racing against time. this debate was never about the united kingdom, for me it’s about a specific company not honouring its contractual commitments and the commission really needs to make sure whatever it takes to enforce these commitments in the name of our citizens. lastly, let me briefly talk about another issue that’s not on the council agenda and that i’m very sorry for. we just heard about it from the president of the parliament. and we all know that only three days before the council meeting china slapped sanctions on elected european officials and public bodies, academics, representatives, our very own subcommittee on human rights – even a council committee is on china’s list – only for speaking up for human rights. we have to respond, and it has to come from the 27 national leaders who say with one voice that we will never be bullied. we need to be clear. our comprehensive investment deal has to be off the table as long as we see no meaningful progress in the treatment of uyghurs and hong kong’s pro—democracy movement. and no product will enter a market that is tainted by the suffering of people who are held in prison camps. colleagues, we are the european union. our entire history, our entire purpose rests on the promotion of peace and human rights and we will never stay silent in the face of such brutality. so this is my message also to the chinese communist party, and this is the message i also expect to hear from the council tomorrow.
mr. president, i have 56%, 45%, 25% and 9%. if we weren't in the middle of the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, these numbers wouldn't mean anything. but now, behind every number, there are lives. the numbers are stubborn things, so in this case, they show where israel, the uk, the us and the eu stand in the fight against the coronavirus. given the sad results in the eu, i think the eu should focus on the most pressing problem at the moment, which is the procurement of the vaccine. it is important that the union acquires as many vaccines as possible as quickly as possible, as high vaccination coverage is the only way out of the coronavirus pandemic. but even now, the institutions in brussels are beginning to legislate ideologically on the vaccine passport. i want to emphasize that what our citizens need now is not a discriminatory vaccination pass, but a vaccine!
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. air pollution poses challenges to member states on many fronts. i believe that we need to regulate emissions reductions and encourage the associated technological change in ways that minimise the disadvantage to the population. i believe that action at eu level must be both socially and economically realistic. today's debate shows that the development of national commitments to standards will be the subject of much debate and compromise in the future. at the same time, as the achievement of the reduction targets involves financial resources, this creates a good opportunity for member states to implement green economy, climate-friendly technologies and developments. the important thing is that people should always be at the centre of climate action. the risk of their living standards being jeopardized for the sake of some unrealistic goals dreamed up by the left in brussels.
in writing. the global coronavirus pandemic has forced millions to work from home, and the role of digitalisation has been further enhanced. the fast and efficient exchange of data is the main driver of today's virtual world economy. it is no wonder that data is at the heart of the eu's digital transformation, as it is important in all aspects of society and the economy. it is pleasing to note that the european parliament voted in favour of the report on the european data strategy at today's plenary session. the global covid-19 crisis has further highlighted the importance of digitalisation, electronic infrastructure, high-tech tools and skills. i believe that digitalisation will make economic recovery more effective, and will provide an opportunity to bridge the digital divide between regions and member states. digitalisation must not lead to greater or new social inequalities, to the fragmentation of regions. in the data economy, europe is currently losing out to the united states and china. instead of a left-wing, brussels-centred, bureaucratic vision, we need a flexible data strategy that embraces nation states. i believe that efficient and rapid data sharing between nation states is the key to overcoming global competitive disadvantage. it is welcome that the european parliament's report emphasises the importance of the role of the member state authorities.
the more vaccines there are, the more we can guarantee that there are enough vaccines available across the eu! the european commission's vaccine strategy started with a big slogan not so long ago, but somehow we see that the eu approval process has been undermined. i fully agree with the conclusions of the european council. we really need to speed up the vaccination. in this regard, i would like to highlight as a positive example that the european director of one of the most prestigious organizations in the world, the who, recently stated that the hungarian vaccination campaign is also an example in europe, contrary to the slanders of the hungarian left. i believe that member states should do everything possible to ensure that the vaccination coverage is adequate. i would like to recommend the hungarian experience to everyone with all due humility, so that what we have achieved in hungary can be achieved in all member states. we need to make a decision, we need to have enough vaccine, we need to have fast vaccination.
madam president, having read the joint communication of the commission and the council and listening to some colleagues in this debate, i get the impression that in assessing the eu-turkey relations, cause and causality are often confused. deterioration of our relations is an unfortunate fact, and while criticising erdoğan and his style of government, his disregard for democratic norms is difficult to contest, apportioning all the blame there would not be fair. our most difficult conflicts at the moment – the east med. gas drilling maritime boundaries in the mediterranean or libya – can be traced back to the issue of divided cyprus, the fact cyprus entered the european union before finding a solution under international law to its problem of ethnic division. that was a historic opportunity with a once-off leverage in the hands of the eu. this missed opportunity for settling the issue of the divided island is clearly the omission of the eu which should be corrected as soon as possible if we want to de-escalate bilateral relations and tensions in the mediterranean region.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. it is in the common interest of all member states that agencies which play a leading role in shaping union policy function effectively and contribute to the emergence of many common european solutions. these agencies work in areas that affect the daily lives of european citizens, whether it be health, the environment or even security policy. in view of the current crisis caused by the coronavirus, not only the european institutions but also these agencies have a lot of work and responsibility to do. throughout the discharge procedure, our aim is to monitor the agencies' performance and make suggestions to them on how to use their resources more efficiently. it is in the common interest of all of us that the agencies operate in a transparent way, in order to generate common european solutions for european citizens. it's in all of our interests.
i'll close this discussion. the vote on the decisions to grant exemptions shall take place on 27 april 2021. the votes on amendments to the exemption resolutions will take place on 27 and 28 april 2021. the final vote shall be held on 29 april 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following agenda item is the recommendation for second reading by mrs vilija blinkevičiūtė on the position of the council at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers made redundant (egf) and repealing regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 (05532/1/2021 - c9-0139/2021 - 2018/0202 ((cod)) (a9-0140/2021).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this measure, the globalisation adjustment fund, is based on an element of certainty, namely the certainty that the european union has finally understood that globalisation, if not managed, can cause tremendous damage to our countries, our economies, our families and our companies. so it rightly decides to put resources - and we are talking about over a billion euros - to help labour policies. but it's not enough. we must have the courage to dare so that companies can of course remain in the territory, remain in europe: we cannot think of giving a discount to workers who lose their jobs because companies relocate, because european free trade agreements penalise our companies, because european rules penalise our products. we must begin to define that those who leave europe to produce in other countries must clearly state that the product is not made in europe, that the product is the result of a relocation. europe must do this, in addition to providing economic resources, as we are doing today, for the workers.
madam president, commissioner, the news regularly shows us painful images of european factories having to close their doors, victims of disorderly globalisation, victims of the covid pandemic, or victims of strategic corporate choices, and i am thinking in particular of the 261 employees in duppigheim, alsace, whose jobs are now under threat. more than ever, the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has proved its worth by supporting 150 000 workers, needs to be strengthened. this is what is proposed in the agreement, by lowering the threshold for those who can benefit, by also encouraging dismissed employees to start their own businesses and by also allowing a better reconciliation of job search, new training and private life. now that the tool is in place, the tool that shows that europe can engage with the most vulnerable, we can only hope that we will not have to do too much.
mr president, the european union is for europeans and also alongside its workers. that is why i am pleased to support the creation of a new and improved globalisation fund. the eu aims at free and fair international trade, because it grows the economy and creates jobs, but jobs are also lost when the economy changes. therefore, an improved and enhanced globalisation adjustment fund is still needed to support the unemployed and to build new jobs in difficult times. many finns have also received support when their jobs have been destroyed. this fund is known to many ex-nokians, perlosians, software and commercial workers. ten times the global fund has helped. finnair is now also being asked to help those who have lost their jobs, and i believe that in the next seven years there will be more needs. the new fund will support up to 200 job losses, up from 500 in the past, and up to eur 20 000 for individual entrepreneurs.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. the european globalisation adjustment fund has played an important role in recent years and i believe it should be continued. however, i believe that as an instrument to respond to the emerging ad hoc challenges of economic change, it must evolve. i therefore support the changes that have been made to the fund in the course of the tripartite negotiations. i think it is right to extend the scope of support and the high level of co-financing and to reduce the eligibility to 200 employees. i am also pleased that the self-employed have been included in the support and that the level of funding has been increased for them. this is an important and growing group of workers. unfortunately, the covid-19 pandemic has also shown that these people, on the one hand, are still not protected on an equal footing with full-time employees, and on the other hand, they are not always considered micro and small entrepreneurs. and i hope that, slowly, that will change, and we can come up with a comprehensive, good solution for this group as well.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for all your contributions and support to the fund and its improvements. this has been repeated by some speakers: i would say that this fund was created because there was a realisation that globalisation does not only create winners, but also losers. today we see - and this has also been repeated by several speakers - that a long list of workers have been able to benefit from the fund and find a job. today we are faced with other crises. it is not just globalisation, but above all the covid health crisis, which is particularly hard on small and medium-sized enterprises. it is therefore quite appropriate to include among the beneficiaries of this fund those who work in smes and who are, indeed, at risk of losing their jobs or have already lost them. of course, the commission will continue to implement, with your help, with your support, this fund and these measures to help all those who are affected either by the current covid crisis or by the technological changes inherent in our economy. but there is no reason for these workers to fall into structural unemployment by losing their jobs. we need active employment policies, based on retraining, investment in skills but also, of course, policies that encourage and support job creation. if we bring these different instruments together at european and national level, i believe we can find adequate solutions for many workers.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund for migrant workers (egf) is the solidarity fund set up in 2007 to finance labour market activation measures (such as training, job search and business creation) in the context of unexpected redundancies caused by globalisation or by global economic and financial crises, which have a significant impact on the economy at regional or local level. the new egf 2021-2027 will not only ensure the continuation of the fund beyond 2020, but will also allow for increased support for people who lose their jobs due to restructuring processes in europe, by having an increased annual budget, and by including additional reasons for considering a case of redundancy as eligible for funding. we have succeeded in reducing the number of redundancies that can be mobilised from 500 to 200. we have secured childcare allowance for workers made redundant with children and we have increased financial support for selfemployed people who want to start their own business to eur 22 000.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'citizens, equality, rights and values' programme and repealing regulation (eu) no 1381/2013 of the european parliament and of the council and council regulation (eu) no 390/2014 [06833/1/2020 - c9-0144/2021 - 2018/0207 (cod)) (rapporteur: alice kuhnke) (a9-0144/2021).
member of the commission. – mr president, it’s a pleasure for me to come back to the citizens, equality, rights and values programme (cerv) today in plenary, after the conclusion of successful trilogues in december last year. the commission welcomes the agreement reached on this important programme by the european parliament and the council. with a considerably increased budget of more than eur 1.5 billion for the funding period 2021-2027, this programme is the biggest eu fund ever to promote and protect the union values of democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights, which are particularly important for our institutions. as we work to recover from the current crisis, we must protect and enhance fundamental rights, non-discrimination and solidarity. the programme will be tailored to help us speed up progress towards a union of equality. the support of the parliament has been key to achieving such an ambitious result. the cerv programme will support major political actions. to mention a few: the eu anti-racism action plan for 2020-2025 that sets out a number of actions to tackle racism through eu law, but also to work with member states, including national law enforcement, media and civil society; the eu strategy on the rights of the child, to protect, support and empower children in the eu and beyond; the european democracy action plan, which sets out measures to promote free and fair elections, strengthen media freedom and counter disinformation. le programme cerv soutiendra les organisations qui contribuent à rendre vivants l’égalité, les droits et les valeurs de l’union européenne. il permettra notamment de créer un environnement favorable aux organisations de la société civile qui sont engagées dans la promotion et la protection des valeurs de l’union dans les états membres. je tiens à souligner que la commission sera particulièrement attentive à sélectionner les meilleures candidatures possibles. nous allons également renforcer notre contrôle, y compris en ce qui concerne le respect des valeurs européennes par les bénéficiaires des fonds – et la mise en œuvre de ces projets témoigne finalement de l’importance de ces valeurs. nous devons également améliorer le contrôle de l’utilisation des fonds. je vous remercie à nouveau pour le travail accompli ensemble. je tiens à remercier en particulier la rapporteure, mme kühnke, et à travers elle l’ensemble des corapporteurs et de toutes celles et tous ceux, au parlement comme au conseil, comme dans nos équipes au sein de la commission, qui ont permis cet aboutissement très important: une augmentation sans précédent des moyens consacrés à ce fonds et aux thèmes que ce fonds porte à travers nos institutions. merci en tout cas pour votre attention à l’occasion de cette plénière et je me réjouis bien entendu d’entendre vos observations sur ce sujet qui, je le sais, vous tient particulièrement à cœur.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, are the rule of law, rights, freedoms and its fundamental values not in danger in the european union? the answer is no. as a consequence of a serpentine crisis situation, phobias are growing in all directions, radicalisms and extremisms, from the old demons of anti-semitism and anti-gypsyism to a structural evil like violence against women. it is therefore essential that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which affirm as never before the union's commitment to the rule of law, values, rights, freedoms and citizenship, this should be reflected in the multiannual financial framework. i can therefore only welcome the fact that, after a 'not easy' negotiation with the commission and the council, funding for programmes relating to justice, rights and values is being increased: eur 1 600 million in the financial framework 2021-2027. i also welcome its distribution, underlining the importance of the values of the rule of law and democracy, with 43% of the so-called 'strand values', the programme for strengthening values and rights; with 23% for the daphne programme, which protects vulnerable groups against violence: children, women victims of gender-based violence, structural problems throughout the european union, and also vulnerable groups; and an increase that reinforces the participation of citizens and expresses the european union's commitment to all the values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i therefore believe that it is an achievement and a good message to european citizenship that the european union is providing financial support for the programmes which underpin this dimension, which expresses as never before that the european union is not the single market, it is not the euro: it is above all these values, this equality of rights, this citizenship, this rule of law - elements which are the backbone of the european construction.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. one of the great successes of our parliamentary work last year was the multi-billion euro resources that the european union intends to allocate to civil society in the next budget cycle. a significant part of this amount is contributed by the 'equality, rights and values for citizens' programme, which aims to promote european values throughout europe. the importance of this programme cannot be overstated at a time when governments in some member states are doing everything they can to destroy european values, silence critical voices and retain power at all costs. these governments are trying to deny one of the greatest lessons of our common european history, namely that our society can only function well if we base the management of our common affairs on broad community debate. and this can only be achieved by encouraging, not suppressing, public opinion. and the best way to support participation in solving our common challenges is through support for civil society. that's why it's going to be important to monitor the implementation of the programme, especially the small, local organisations, so that they have a chance to get support too. my fellow members of the house of representatives! without an independent and autonomous civil sphere, we cannot imagine, we cannot speak of a humane and just democracy. nevertheless, in more and more countries, ngos have been the victims of vile and unworthy political attacks. and this is also extremely outrageous because civil society often takes over the government's failure to do public service. they help the poorest who have grown up in lockdown, who have been victims of domestic violence, or who have lost their livelihoods to the pandemic. so they're helping ordinary people, setting an example for us, but mostly for power-drunk politicians. let us bear this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, when we vote on the use of eu funds for civilians.
in writing. the single market is the engine of the eu. it has been around for decades and has brought many benefits to both eu citizens and businesses. however, in order to continue to fulfil its mission, it needs to adapt its operations to the digital age. i believe that the union must first and foremost ensure that consumers are able to exercise their rights. that will be the task of the single market programme. i'm pleased to say that one of the main beneficiaries of this program is food safety. the union thereby recognises the importance of ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market for food products by preventing and, if necessary, combating events with potentially significant adverse effects on public health and the union economy. it should enable us to step up our efforts to combat food waste and fraud. i am also pleased that the programme will help to develop the it tools and expertise needed to enforce competition rules effectively in the digital economy and to improve cooperation with national authorities and courts. i therefore support the programme as a modern, simple and flexible programme that brings together a wide range of activities previously financed separately and can ensure the local implementation of the single market for eu citizens at a better price-value ratio than before.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is one year since the european parliament called for a european approach to the corona apps in spring 2020. we wanted a tool for all citizens in europe, for the entire single market. unfortunately, the member states could not agree on this and the app has not been as successful as we wanted it to be. today, a year later, it is basically the same thing. the only difference is that this time, we're not talking about the app, but about restoring freedom of movement in europe for all citizens who are no longer a risk. i can only repeat what i called for a year ago: we need a common european approach for all 27 member states. the restrictions on freedom of movement were necessary. but for the citizens who no longer represent a real danger, there is no longer any reason to restrict their basic rights. what is important now is that all citizens are treated equally, that there are free testing facilities in all countries, that the appropriate vaccination facilities are opened everywhere. of course, not all scientific questions have been answered. how long will the vaccine last? how long does the vaccine last? all this has yet to be clarified. but a european digital certificate allows for flexibility. we need them, and we need them uniformly throughout europe. that's why it's important that we take this step together now. i thank you very much for this proposal, commissioner.
madam president, commissioner, i must say at the outset that this regulation does not guarantee free movement, but facilitates it, only unfortunately facilitates it only for some citizens. we have to answer to the citizens. what do i say to the citizens of my country when those who are healthy, have not been through the disease, do not get vaccinated because they cannot or will not, that they are not tested, these citizens do not have the right to move. of course you tried a solution, but rather than give a bad solution, which lowers citizens' trust in the european union, especially since experts tell us: "yes, the virus is there and it will be there. it won't go away after the vaccination. i ask you, commissioner, are you focused on finding a cure for this virus, because it has been circulating among citizens for thousands of years with hepatitis b, c, hiv and other viruses? i can't look the citizens in the eye and not give them an explanation. maybe you can answer us today, so we know what to tell them. i proposed that all citizens circulate if they have a health certificate, even if they are not vaccinated, even if they are not tested, and even if they have not been through the disease. i think this is a right of citizens and life without rights does not make sense, commissioner.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. we have a proposal that would remove restrictions at eu level for people with confirmed immunity who are subject to quarantine or negative pcr test for travel within europe. however, the proposal automatically covers only vaccines approved by the european medicines agency. this restricts the travel rights of more than one million hungarian eu citizens who have been vaccinated with the eastern vaccine compared to those who have been vaccinated with the western vaccine. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i find this unacceptable. this cannot be called a european solution. we can rightly criticize viktor orbán's policy, because he has obtained vaccines by pouring into the pockets of his fellow companies in an opaque way. and all the while, he's using his lying propaganda to undermine people's trust in western vaccines. but viktor orbán is not equal to hungary, and certainly not to the hungarian people. we can't punish people for the crimes of their governments.
president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of last year the commission hastily concluded an investment agreement with china, and this under strong pressure from merkel and macron. that deal was a political gain for the chinese regime, just as it was paralyzing the democratic opposition in hong kong, just as news was coming out more and more about the forced labor camps where millions of uighurs are held as slaves. in march, europe imposed modest sanctions on the chinese officials in charge of the uyghur forced labor camps. this was followed by heavy chinese sanctions against our elected parliamentarians who want to defend human rights. the signal is clear. china wants to silence europe, just as china does not tolerate any opposition at home. for me, colleagues, it is very clear. we cannot continue with this investment agreement as long as there are human rights violations and sanctions against members of parliament. we must now suspend all trade missions with china and our heads of government and our heads of state must boycott the olympic games. finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us offer a real alternative to these chinese stranglehold contracts by investing through our european recovery fund.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is an outrage what is happening in xinjiang with the uyghur population. the council has finally taken note of the atrocities that are taking place there, and we have said and made it quite clear that sanctions must be imposed on those responsible for these atrocities. and that is good, and that is right, and we will say that again and again very clearly and very clearly. the same applies to the other atrocities that are happening, particularly in china. the chinese government believes that people who speak out for freedom, for justice, for human rights, for fundamental rights every day - in the world, in the european parliament - that such people should be sanctioned, that is another monstrosity. one we cannot accept. an enormity that leaves us almost speechless. but it will not leave us speechless, because we know very well that we cannot accept that. the eu sanctions were a clear response to the human rights violations against the uighurs in xinjiang. however, the chinese government's intention with its sanctions is to stifle any protest. we will not be fooled.
madam president, the oppression of uyghurs in xinjiang is the largest scale detention of minorities since the second world war, and it is our duty as parliamentarians to speak up against it. it is no coincidence that this institution was singled out and targeted with outrageous sanctions only for doing our job. what this parliament stands for is the ultimate nightmare of the chinese leadership – a united, value—based coalition where western democracies push back against the brutality of the chinese regime. china is terrified of a united and value—based european foreign policy. that’s why they cultivate their trojan horses like viktor orbán, who kicks out a western university and invites a chinese one and whose foreign minister regards the eu sanctions as useless exhibitionism. so colleagues, let’s not let china silence us. let’s speak out with one voice, loud and clear, that the comprehensive investment agreement is off the table until these sanctions are lifted. we should seriously consider a more comprehensive ban on xinjiang cotton. let’s not be bullied into silence.
in writing. the european child guarantee is a major achievement of the group of the party of european socialists. today, almost one in four children in hungary still lives in poverty, and i therefore ask the member states to launch the child guarantee as soon as possible and to allocate a minimum of 5% of the european social fund to children, so that we can eliminate the social exclusion of children without delay. the child guarantee will ensure that all children have free access to early childhood education and care, education, healthy food, health care and affordable housing. it is particularly important to support the parents of those in need, thereby preserving the possibility for children to stay with their parents and facilitating the return of the parent to work with appropriate support systems and free early childhood care. address school segregation and digital disparities in education, especially the challenges posed by the covid crisis, urgently. children should be given priority in recovery plans. the child guarantee is a first step towards giving every child an equal chance in europe, but this requires the introduction of the european family compensation. provide adequate income support to families and create equal opportunities for all children to break the poverty trap.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the other day we discussed here in the house the issue of the european institutions and agencies' discharge. what we found is that at the european level, we have, in general, good management of public money, which is a very good thing. however, it must be borne in mind that around 80% of the european budget is actually managed at member state level, not directly by the european institutions, and at national level the quality of control can vary widely. i therefore believe that we need to strengthen the capacity to monitor and report fraud at member state level and that is what the anti-fraud programme can do.
before we go any further, i should like to announce the start of the next voting period today. we shall then vote on the dossiers as indicated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 9.45 a.m. to 11 a.m. the voting procedure shall be the same as for previous voting periods and all votes shall be cast by roll-call. i therefore declare the voting period open and you can vote until 11 a.m. the results of this first round of voting today will be announced at 1 p.m.
we therefore call on the commission to submit a report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2012 and to submit a report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2012 (com (2013) 017).
mr president, i’m glad to see small improvement in the eu’s anti-fraud framework, but i’m sorry to say that the tools in our hand are still painfully inadequate. this framework was designed for small irregularities in an otherwise well— functioning setup, but when this framework comes up against the systemic corruption we witness in hungary, it becomes crystal clear that the eu brought a water pistol to fight a forest fire. olaf can only monitor some 10% of eu spending, and the rest is left for member states, and if a member state chooses not to monitor, say, the wife and son of a fidesz mp who spent eur 170 000 on the family’s own estate, well then, nothing happens. the hungarian parliament voted this week to move billions of state assets – entire public bodies – into loyalist-run private foundations with no democratic oversight. these will be major recipients of eu funding. colleagues, this is state capture, pure and simple. we need stronger tools to fight against it – a firefighting helicopter maybe, or a stronger anti-fraud framework, i don’t know, but we have to do something. we cannot let this without a word.
mr president, commissioner, all of us who envision a strong european union firmly believe that this cannot be achieved without a strong european defence and a strong european army. a european union which is unable to defend its territorial integrity, which is unable to protect its external borders, which is unable to safeguard and guarantee the sovereignty and independence of its member states, cannot be considered and is not considered a strong and credible force in the world. i do not hide from you that i am saddened and angry when turkey violates the external borders of the european union, violates the sovereignty of member states such as cyprus and greece, violates european and international law and the law of the sea, and the european union remains a passive spectator instead of intervening and reacting forcefully. i think it is time for the european union to do the obvious, because this is a huge deficit. it is a lack of credibility and trust on the part of the european citizens themselves and the european union must defend its external borders, as the smallest country in the world does, and make it clear to everyone that the external borders of the european union are non-negotiable and inviolable and that anyone who dares to violate them will be met with a strong and forceful response from the european union. mr president, i find it completely unacceptable that member states of the european union continue to supply turkey with arms, when they are knowing that these arms are being used to the detriment of member states of the european union. it is being used by the occupying power in my country, cyprus, it is being used against greece, against the armenians in nagorno karabakh and against the kurds. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is time for the european union to set up a rapid reaction force to protect its external borders. only then will she regain her prestige, her credibility, her power on the planet, and her voice have power.
mr president, we live in a polarised world. the threats to peace and security on the european borders and citizens are increasing daily. the threats to our foundations and values divide us, even internally. what we need is not fear but the visible leadership and the strategy to reassure our citizens that their security is not at stake. here we discuss on a daily basis the volatile behaviour of some of our strategic partners. the european union must rely on itself in order to exert with confidence its role on the world stage. we must modernise our defence capacities in close coordination with our nato partners. the european defence fund contributes to this endeavour. it aims to mainstream our defence budget spending and actively engage our european defence industry. this fund will promote defence cooperation among european companies, research actors and between the member states to foster innovation and develop state—of—the—art defence technologies. thanks to the new fund, our european defence will be stronger and more effective.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your comments, which i have understood. the european defence fund we are discussing is an extremely important element in strengthening our capacity to act autonomously. it was designed to ensure that defence cooperation becomes increasingly the norm rather than the exception. of course, i hear those who want us to focus on innovation and competitiveness in the defence industry and on the fact that the fund benefits all member states and all actors, big and small: i will make sure that this is a prerequisite for success, of course. i have said it before and i repeat it now before you: the pioneering programmes have shown that this is the case. the european defence fund will also help to reduce the duplication of effort that some have rightly mentioned, particularly through european projects which will obviously lead to greater efficiency but also to a significant reduction in the fragmentation that many have mentioned this morning. with the adoption of the regulation for the european defence fund, we can then really concentrate on the work programme. of course, we have been working on this for several months, as you will have guessed, in close cooperation with the member states and the associated states and also with the support of the european defence agency and the european external action service. we aim for a balanced work programme, paying particular attention to inclusion and innovation, while of course being very attentive to the need to include actions specific to certain structural projects for the coming years. in the field of technology, for example, i consider it absolutely essential that the 'defence' dimension be taken into account in broader debates, such as those we have on semiconductors or on clouds. we need a european defence cloud, we also need semiconductors that are qualified for defence capabilities. the european defence fund will help to make progress on these issues, it should also enable us to finance cyber defence projects, some have mentioned, particularly around the forthcoming quantum cryptology and finally to initiate a spatial dimension in our defence strategy. we are aiming to adopt this first work programme and publish the calls for proposals by the summer, as i was telling you this morning. i am aware that this is obviously an ambitious timetable, but i am convinced that, with the mobilisation of all, we will succeed and thus move from a concept to the financing of concrete projects which, i am absolutely convinced, can make a difference for european defence cooperation and this is why today is indeed a very important day for the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 29 april 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (article 144 of the treaty). the first item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the covid-19 pandemic in latin america (2021/2645 (rsp)) *. at the moment, none of the authors of this item are present. i would like to begin the debate with the author of the opinion, mrs maria-manuel leitão-marques. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: solidarity with latin america is a common challenge, a huge sacrifice, but not only verbal solidarity, which is important, but also covax. we recently increased the budget for this initiative by another 400 million euros, which is to support the fight against the pandemic, the vaccination campaign in less prosperous countries or simply poor countries. i also think it is worth supporting initiatives that will generate the possibility of producing a vaccine in latin american countries, which will be a healthy mechanism, and therefore also funds for scientific cooperation between our continents, including the use of the horizon europe programme for this purpose. these are the things that are needed, the things that are necessary, the things that are in front of us.
author. mr. president, latin america is one of the regions most affected by covid-19, although brazil's situation stands out, both because of the health crisis and bolsonaro's criminal management, which, instead of declaring war on the virus, has declared war on science, medicine and life, causing thousands of avoidable deaths. by action or omission, bolsonaro's necropolitics constitute a crime against humanity that must be investigated. bolsonaro is not just a danger to brazil; he is a danger to the entire world. the brazilian people do not deserve to continue to suffer the consequences of the incompetence of their president, and the peoples of latin america do not deserve to continue to be victims of the selfishness of the northern countries and the interests of the pharmaceutical companies, which want to profit from their lives. that is why we call for universal, free and unrestricted access to vaccines; the liberalization of patents and the promotion of local production; a covid tax on wealth to finance the fight against the pandemic and inequality; the cancellation of foreign debt to invest in the reconstruction of latin american health systems; and the paralysis of agreements such as mercosur, which promotes the loss of biodiversity, which is the cause of 70% of the world's epidemic outbreaks. our lives are worth more than your profits. let me get this straight.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, latin america began 2020 as the world’s most unequal region. this only worsened during the pandemic. the devastating effects of the pandemic on both sides of the atlantic call for solidarity, mercy and a coordinated response. but is it too little too late for all those who have lost their dear ones? we have a covax initiative that has so far administered only 38 million doses – 38 million doses. there is a clear need to boost production and distribution via the covax initiative, and we need the answer. why is this not the case? why don’t people have an equal chance for help? not only latin america but all third countries, including our immediate neighbourhood, are facing a perfect storm and wait in fear for the third or fourth wave to bring them down into oblivion. why? just because they didn’t have a chance to be born on the right side of the border. on 11 april, the day of mercy, my mother, slavica, died in a country that is on the wrong side of the european border, due to the inefficiency and hesitations of those who think that they still have the time and the patience to wait for the only remedy for this disease – the vaccine. i myself was infected a second time by the new kind of virus that comes and goes and doesn’t stop at the border. i feel a big failure talking and voting here as my mother was not given the chance. she had her perfect storm and so do many people in latin america.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, today the european parliament wants to underline that latin america has been the region most affected by the pandemic in the world, with 8% of its population and 30% of deaths from covid-19. and that, in addition, a region which had grown little during the last five years is facing very serious economic and social consequences, all of them crossed by the phenomenon of inequality. that is why we are calling for greater cooperation with the region, greater dialogue at the highest level, greater financial support and greater help in the vaccination process; that they try to treat the vaccine for what it is: a global public good that affects everyone and requires universality. and finally use this intervention to denounce the policies of bolsonaro and brazil, which have stood out above the rest, which are a risk to the lives of brazilians and a risk to the whole of humanity, since they can turn the country into an incubator of new strains. we have to expose him and end it.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, ‘stop all this fussing and whining. how much longer will the crying go on?’ this is what bolsonaro said about the covid—19 virus which took the lives of 400 thousand brazilians. brazil’s struggle is a bit personal for me. as a medical student, i worked in a hospital in vassouras and i saw a robust public health system that never should have gotten to this point. but it did, and partially because the president chose to be a part of the problem and not part of the solution. and democracy suffers as well. he uses a national security law to crack down on critics: a strategy that is – sadly – familiar for me, as i also saw in hungary people being detained only for criticising the government on facebook and doctors being banned from talking. but when citizens are silenced, the international community has a duty to speak up. so let’s send a message of solidarity. let’s boost our efforts to vaccinate the world and let’s waive the ip rights for vaccines and ensure that everybody can be saved no matter where they live. because, colleagues, there is no latin-american or european crisis: we are all in this together.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the internet and digital technologies play a key role in all aspects of our lives. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. innovative technologies will play a key role in the economic recovery after the pandemic. i believe that the €7.6 billion framework budget can effectively promote green renewable energy and accelerate the digital transformation. the main objective is to reduce the digital divide between enterprises and geographical areas, and to ensure the availability and use of infrastructure and innovative services. it is particularly welcome that the programme - which is of great importance for hungary - includes an important part of the framework budget to combat digital exclusion, providing long-term training opportunities.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president, i have to go. the last year of the pandemic has shown us all how vulnerable we are, how important it is to take care not only of our health but also of our environment. exactly to make us more resilient. the european union has a really great program called life. it is the only eu fund dedicated entirely to environmental and climate objectives. the programme will help enormously to achieve the union's environmental objectives and promote the green transition, as one of the objectives of the life programme is to switch to clean energy. so it was a great joy for me when we decided to continue this wonderful program. the other great merit is that we finally have an eu programme that is known to a wider public, because it reaches the levels where it is needed most, through local authorities and civil society organisations, directly to the people, to the citizens of europe. this is how european citizens can feel that the european union is working for them on a daily basis. we need more of these programs, and i think we can agree on that. sometimes we get strong criticism that european money is not necessarily going to them and is not being used as efficiently as it is within the life programme. the life programme is an example of the great things that can be done with direct eu funding, and i encourage everyone to continue this programme in the future and to complement it with new, similar programmes. and in these cases, in these direct programs, there's no need for extra investment. that is why, as i said, i continue to encourage eu decision-makers to be bold and innovative and to create programmes like life that can reach citizens directly, because that is the way they will feel the most about the importance of environmental protection, climate policy and the importance of themselves as citizens in the daily life of the european union. i would like to thank once again all the colleagues who have made it possible for the life programme to work, in the previous term and in the current term, to work in this way, and i would encourage everyone to continue to support this programme and to support the bold idea of creating more direct programmes like this for all citizens of the european union in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the life programme has played an important role in european environmental policy for decades, and increasingly in sustainability policy. however, i believe that life projects often highlight the contradictions of policy decisions at eu level. i would like to emphasise that environmental improvements do require central coordination in the member states, as these programmes cross several regions. it should be stressed that these projects are not carried out in a piecemeal, isolated manner, but in a networked manner. without coordination between member states, eu environmental developments cannot succeed! environmental and sustainability policy is about whether or not citizens accept it. i think that there is a need to raise awareness of this programme at eu level, as these projects can be a very valuable help and a real added value in the field of environmental protection.
mr president people who live in poverty do less damage to the planet than the elite who chase happiness in overconsumption, traveling by private jet and vacationing on luxury yachts. the short-term costs of climate change are not borne by the rich, but by those who can least afford it. the needy in the developed countries and the population in the developing countries. but not only overconsumption, environmental protection is the privilege of the elite these days: organic food, electric cars, rooftop solar panels. these are things that the average person cannot afford, while for many, clean drinking water is a luxury. my fellow members of the house of representatives! we cannot expect the masses to be environmentally conscious and to bear the consequences of climate change while the elites are unwilling to do anything for the common goal of saving our future. and that's why we need to completely rethink the system of social equity and redistribution. we must build a europe that is both fair and green.
madam president, please. the crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic is a challenge for the european economy and thus for european industry. i welcome the commission's review. i myself believe that the main focus should be on maintaining the smooth functioning of the common market. in my view, this revised strategy still does not adequately reflect the impact of the pandemic on smes. european industry requires significant investments in research and innovation, and therefore further support should be provided for digitalisation and the introduction of environmentally friendly technologies. the planned investments are not sufficient for this, additional investments will be required. i ask the commission to support businesses in overcoming the crisis and to work towards restoring the competitiveness of european industry as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, our discussion today demonstrates that the eu treats the western balkans as a privileged partner and that we are committed to advancing montenegro’s eu path. we have revised the enlargement methodology with the aim to strengthen the credibility, the predictability, of the enlargement process, while also injecting and adding dynamism and more political steer, and of course, keeping the fundamentals at the centre. to move forward, progress in the area of rule of law will be essential and i look forward to clear progress in this area. with our world in a period of transition marked by a global pandemic, major geopolitical and economic power shifts, the eu has been and will continue to care for and stand by montenegro as its first political trade and economic partner. this includes helping the country to overcome previous financial arrangements creating severe risks, be they political and/or financial, and i keep recalling that the entire western balkans region is a priority for us, for the eu, for the commission, and for me personally.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr tonino picula again for the relevance, the interest and the very important content of the report he has presented. it has enabled a constructive debate to be held on the accession process of montenegro. i would also like to thank the european parliament for its commitment and support for the enlargement policy. i would like to say that enlargement policy is one of the priorities of the portuguese presidency of the council of the european union and it remains our objective to launch a new intergovernmental conference with montenegro, as well as with serbia, at the end of next june. and finally, i would like to say that the process of integration is always a very demanding process. we welcome the progress made so far by montenegro, but stress the importance of continuing reforms in key areas such as media freedom, the fight against corruption, the reform of public administration and all other reforms indispensable for montenegro's alignment with the acquis of the european union and also with our foreign policy.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, 18 may 2021. the final vote will take place on wednesday 19 may 2021. before we continue the debate, i should like to announce the results of the first round of voting today. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. hungary strongly supports the early accession of the western balkan countries to the european union. among the countries in the region, montenegro is the closest to eu membership. i am pleased that the country will adopt the new enlargement methodology developed by the commissioner responsible for urban olive oil. i hope that this will help to speed up the closure of the negotiating chapters and enable montenegro to join the european union as soon as possible. but the coronavirus pandemic has posed a great challenge to the entire world over the last year and a half. it was no different in the case of montenegro. since a large part of the country's population is dependent on tourism, it is crucial that the economy is restarted as soon as possible, so that tourists can return to the country. and one of the most important conditions is that there is enough vaccine and people are able to get vaccinated. both in montenegro and in the european union. i believe it is important that the eu increases its assistance to montenegro and the region as a whole, both in economic terms and in terms of vaccines, so that life can return to normal as soon as possible. as a member of the fidesz delegation, i will vote in favour of the report.
the next item is the report by mrs maría soraya rodríguez ramos, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the impact of climate change on human rights and the role of environmentalists in this context (2020/2134 (ini)) (a9-0039/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, if we do not make a real commitment to reducing carbon dioxide, we are condemning and exposing future generations to the complete limitation of their freedom, to the limitation of their rights: this is a recent statement by the german constitutional court, which therefore for the first time recognizes intergenerational responsibility, the responsibility we have with our actions for the rights and freedoms of future generations. the paris agreement, drafted in 2015, is the first international treaty to explicitly recognize the link between climate action and human rights. recently, the high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet, said in relation to climate warming and the deterioration of our ecosystems that the world has never seen a threat to human rights of this magnitude. that is why no international institution, no state can remain on the sidelines, nor this european parliament, and human rights, the fundamental rights to life, to water, to breathe clean air, are rights that are violated not only in other parts of the world but also here, in our cities: we cannot ignore the thousands of lives that pollution takes every year in our cities; we cannot ignore that heat waves are also taking many lives in our cities, in our countries, that the great floods and the great fires that occur every year also cause the destruction of many lives and the displacement of many people; we cannot forget that from 2030 to 2050 environmental degradation in other countries will cause an additional 250 000 deaths per year, if we do not act, due to the increase in malnutrition, the increase in dehydration, the increase in malaria, the increase in fever, the increase in diary stress. so we have to act, because we have scientific evidence: global warming is the result of our human actions; therefore, we can stop it. in this sense, we can say that we live in extraordinary times because we can be a generation that does extraordinary things, that stops the course of history, if we are able to act. in this respect, we believe that the european union can do much in its external action as well, and that is why we call for the recognition of the human right to a healthy environment at international level and, consequently, its inclusion as such in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union; we call for the development of a legal framework on climate justice within the united nations framework convention; we call for ambitious leadership at important summits such as cop26 and cop15 climate change and biodiversity protection are two sides of the same coin of our environmental deterioration; we call for a legislative proposal on mandatory due diligence in the european union and an active european union in the ongoing negotiations on a binding un treaty on companies and human rights; we also call on the european commission to assess annually the external dimension of the european green deal and we call for the establishment of a contact point on climate justice within the united nations framework convention; we call for ambitious leadership at important summits such as cop26 and cop15 climate change and biodiversity protection are two sides of the same coin of our environmental deterioration; we call for a legislative proposal on mandatory due diligence in the european union and an active european union in the ongoing negotiations on a binding un treaty on companies and human rights; we also call on the european commission to assess annually the external dimension of the european green deal and, and, consequently, to establish a contact point within the un framework convention, to establish a climate justice within the un framework convention; we call for an ambitious leadership at the un framework convention on climate change within the un framework convention; we call for an ambitious leadership at the un framework convention on climate change and we call for an ambitious leadership at the un framework convention on climate change but since we are talking about human rights and climate change, we must talk in this report, if not, about those people who are unfortunately risking their lives to defend them. "giving life in multiple ways, for the defense of rivers, is giving life for the good of humanity and this planet". i recall the words of berta cáceres, words she said when she received the goldman prize for her climate work in 2015; just a year later she was shot dead at the door of her house. today we are still waiting for justice and reparation for that crime, because impunity in crimes against environmental defenders accumulates. that is why we are calling on the european union in this report to take bold initiatives, to fight impunity with the support of the european union's special representative for human rights: impunity is the greatest driver of human rights violations, and to this end, to fight against impunity, we are calling for the possibility, at world level, after negotiations between the parties, of considering ecocide as an international crime within the framework of the rome statute. we want to redouble our political and financial efforts to establish mechanisms for the prevention and protection of human rights defenders; we want a list of priority defenders and we want the high representative to report annually to this house on the situation of the rights of environmental defenders in the third countries with which we work. in short, we want more ambition, we want more commitment, we want to take a major step in the connection between human rights and environmental degradation: we can, i repeat, be a generation that does extraordinary things; we can and must do it, in our name, in defense of our rights and those of future generations.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me warmly commend the work of rapporteur maría soraya rodríguez ramos and the members involved for this timely and significant report. environment, climate change and human rights are closely interrelated. the effects of environmental and climate degradation have a direct impact on the exercise of human rights, right to life, right to health, right to safe drinking water and sanitation, right to food. the new action plan on human rights and democracy 2020-2024 sets this as a clear priority for the eu’s action in the coming years. high representative josep borrell during his mission to the sahel in april witnessed how farmers suffer the consequences of desertification, water scarcity, crop and livestock losses. these conditions amplify inequality and increase displacements, fuelling instability and violence. this year we have the opportunity to firmly enshrine human rights principles in global action to reverse biodiversity loss. the eu biodiversity strategy underlines the importance of a human rights-based approach to ensure social justice, fairness and inclusiveness. the strategy indicates that the post-2020 global biodiversity framework under discussion should respect the rights and the full and effective participation of indigenous people and local communities. the report calls for the eu to address water scarcity as a priority. the eu acts to provide universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation. we have invested more than eur 2.5 billion on water and sanitation in 62 countries, but much remains to be done: 2.1 billion people still lack access to safe drinking water. two years ago, the council adopted eu human rights guidelines on safe drinking water and sanitation with the aim of providing the policy tools to eu and member states’ diplomats around the world to step up efforts. the emergency to act increases every day, and so does the need to protect those who stand up for our public good. environmental human rights defenders are on the front line to protect their rights and the rights of their communities affected by environmental degradation and climate change. the eu provides protection to environmental human rights defenders and indigenous peoples who are facing unprecedented levels of threats and attacks. the situation – particularly worrying in latin america and asia – is unacceptable. in 2020, at least 331 human rights defenders have been killed. 69% of them were working on land, indigenous and environmental rights. since its launch in 2015, protectdefenders.eu has supported almost 12 000 land and environmental rights and indigenous rights defenders, 6 370 of them women, representing the main group supported by the eu-funded mechanism. through the mechanism, environmental human rights defenders and their family members can be urgently reallocated when necessary and have their legal costs for justice and protection covered. let me underline again that the commission fully shares the concerns and priorities outlined in the report. today’s debate is of crucial importance, and you can count on the european external action service, with its network of delegations and with the commission, to actively pursue a fairer and safer environment where the human rights of all are promoted, protected and fulfilled.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, berta cáceres, lolita chávez, claudelice silva are three women leaders who have paid a high price to protect the land, the territory and the commons. like them, hundreds of environmental activists are being attacked around the world. fighting the extractivist policies that international capitalism has assigned to the global south comes at a high price. the fight against climate change starts with supporting and protecting these people, and this goes through concrete measures not just good words, such as demanding the cancellation of all projects that have not complied with the prior consultation, such as the agua zarca project in honduras, for which berta cáceres was murdered. but it also fails to negotiate and ratify trade agreements like mercosur, which will increase deforestation and biodiversity loss. as much as many members of this house may not want to know, we don't have a planet b. we must defend the environment and protect those who defend it.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, there is no doubt that the effects of climate change and the continuing degradation of the environment are having a negative impact on human rights: the right to life, to food, to health, to work, to clean water, to sanitation... they are a threat to all of us, an immediate threat that affects all of us, but they also affect the poorest countries on the planet much more, because they attack them the hardest. the paris agreement is the first international treaty to recognise the link between climate action and human rights. the deforestation, injustices, persecution and rape of their families, suffered by some environmentalists, are unfortunately a reality. we say that we are, in the european union, a community of values. we always talk about justice, equality and solidarity, among others. we therefore have an obligation to be proactive and take effective action to mitigate the effects of this climate change and to improve the lives of the most vulnerable people, populations and countries. our leadership must be based on example. on the one hand, to be exemplary, but also, on the other, to create a global right that leads to the right to a healthy environment being real. we have approved the green deal, we have approved the inclusion of human rights in all our actions, we have pushed for the signing of many agreements to protect the environment, but now we need more involvement, more collaboration, to lead in a combative way this defence of the environment. there is no environmental justice without social justice.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, environmental degradation goes hand in hand with authoritarianism and corruption. communities around the world suffer from polluted air, deforestation, polluted waters, and the very fact that this happens to them is a degradation of their rights. and when activists go on the front line to stand up for the health and homes, they very often pay with their lives. from the philippines to colombia, there is always a network of corruption in the background. oligarchs, bribery, organised crime. we need to recognise these links so that we can step up the fight against it, and the rodriguez report does exactly this. when thousands of environmental defenders are dead every year, hiding behind empty slogans is not a solution any more. we need policy solutions. in order to protect the environment and protect the people at the front lines and to get rid of the underlying corruption, we need to use the magnitsky sanctions. we need to extend travel bans and asset freezes to corruption-related charges, and in order to make sure that no european companies are complicit in these crimes, we have to make a mandatory due diligence law. colleagues, do not forget: the health of our planet depends ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. unpatenting vaccines is a seemingly humanitarian solution that would seemingly end the vaccine shortage all at once. but it's clear that the biggest problem with vaccines right now is not intellectual property, but increasing production capacity. given the complexity and complexity of the situation, a breakthrough in the short term is not expected by suspending patent rights, and instead of legal dead ends and ideologically motivated debates, an efficient and rapid procurement of vaccines and an increase in production capacity would be a much more important task. vaccines cannot be a political issue when saving lives is the goal, so instead of political and ideological procurement, we should be open to effective and safe eastern vaccines. hungary made the right decision when it got vaccines under national jurisdiction and chose to protect health and save the lives of hungarian people instead of political battling.
mr. president, fellow members of the house of representatives. i'm sure most of you have become mps to help people make europe a more livable, fairer place. so i'm sure most of you are very tired of hearing reports and reports about the shenanigans of corrupt heads of government, of reading minutes. but trust me, none of you are more bored than i am. in my country, hungary, orbán, and in the czech republic, babiš is copying orbán by destroying the rule of law and inciting against europe. we saw this when my colleagues from the people's party, the greens and the socialists travelled to the czech republic to listen to the people there. my fellow citizens! the european public prosecutor's office will soon be launched, and europe can only succeed if it can not only put the perpetrators, the crimes committed, on the record, but also prevent them or hold the perpetrators accountable. all of this is essential if we are to finally focus on the important issues we have in common and not on the corrupt troublemakers in europe.
mr president over the past year, the role of ai-based applications has been appreciated. i welcome the ep report, but i would like to point out that europe is at a serious competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis china and the united states. the union can only become a leader if it provides adequate financial resources to promote innovation and investments to help small and medium-sized enterprises. i also believe it is important that new technologies contribute to climate goals and the digital transformation. and we must not forget our citizens. technology should be in the service of people, and so in the field of artificial intelligence, trust is not just lucky, it's absolutely essential. and it is our duty as meps to ensure that for our citizens.
mr president, the drama, worry, frustration and relief associated with the entire brexit process has been replaced with the slow reality of what it means. beyond the bluster and tabloid outrage, the new reality is starting to dawn: that deeper cooperation is in our mutual interest and that the uk should remain a close partner of the eu. yet, there is no doubt that in an increasingly digitalised world, the future relationship between the eu and the uk depends on the continued free flow of data. the securing of adequacy for data transfers is crucial to the future prospects of our economies. we need to provide legal certainty for businesses and citizens, but also for our own security in order to effectively combat cross-border crime. i know there are some in this house who hold reservations about the adequacy decisions proposed by the commission. nevertheless, the fact remains that the united kingdom’s system is the most convergent to the eu’s of any country in the world. the rules in the uk and eu are identical in gdpr and the law enforcement directive. the commission also wisely introduced a sunset clause, which will allow us to continuously monitor uk law and practices. so, i call on the united kingdom government to maintain its high level of protection of personal data, now and in the future, and i call on colleagues in this house not to erect unnecessary barriers that will severely impact businesses and people’s livelihoods.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a standard for the digital world: worth a party. and exactly two weeks ago, microsoft announced that it would only store european citizens' personal data in europe. this follows the schrems ii ruling of the european court of justice. the court rightly concludes that our data is not adequately protected in the united states. let this be a clear signal to the commission. although the united kingdom has only just left the eu, the british must still abide by our european principles. mass surveillance, a supervisory authority that deliberately controls the advertising industry, misuse of data on migrants, all this is unacceptable. as long as the commission treats the personal data of europeans as dowry, we are heading for an unhappy long-distance marriage with the united states and the united kingdom.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, we all know what the schrems ii judgment says. i'm not here to comment on current events; i'm here to share three very clear messages about the importance of protecting our citizens and their personal data. first, the citizen must be and feel protected. the institutions must ensure that their data is protected, both within and outside our borders. secondly, we need transparency. we need to know what, who and why they collect and use our data, regardless of where they use it. and thirdly, i want to make the case that we cannot allow the courts to tell us again in a few years' time that the data of european citizens is not sufficiently protected, as the gdpr states. any company is welcome in the european union, but it must comply with our standards and our way of life. we need to be more transparent about the use of our data to ensure the trust of citizens. otherwise, they will not trust the digital sphere, and the european union will not advance in the global digital race properly.
mr president, brexit was a democratic decision. but for a large part of this parliament, brexit is and remains an unacceptable reality. today we are talking about the adoption of a regulation which will allow the transfer of personal data between the united kingdom and the eu. it's not usually a controversial subject. the british, after all, have very high standards of data protection, often even stricter than the eu itself, but some of my colleagues manage to use this subject to justify their contempt for the uk decision. childish schoolyard politics. president, democracy can be bitter at times, but it is in dealing professionally and with maturity with undesirable outcomes that the true democrat is revealed. some in this parliament have much to learn.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i want to thank you for this debate and i also want to answer to the remarks about the fact that uk data protection law allows exemptions to the rights of individuals, and i will take maybe the example of immigration control. in eu law, as in uk law, data protection rights just like many other fundamental rights are not absolute. they can be balanced against all the objectives of public interest. article 23 of the gdpr allows eu member states to introduce exceptions to the data protection rights if they are necessary and proportionate for important objectives of general public interest. it is under that provision that the uk immigration exemption was introduced while the uk was still a member state. effective immigration control is an important objective of general interest. according to uk law, this exemption can be relied on, on a case-by-case basis, only if at a certain moment in time, the application of certain data protection provisions can prejudice, the maintenance of effective immigration control. it is also important to recall that the scope of this exemption is limited to certain rights and obligations. for instance, the right to rectification is not a right which can be restricted under this exemption. like any other provision of uk data protection law, the use of this exemption can be challenged by the concerned individuals before the data protection authority and courts. we have not limited our assessment of this exemption to what is written in the law. we have also looked at how it has been interpreted and applied. both uk courts and the uk data protection authority confirmed that this exemption is subject to the strict requirements of necessity and of proportionality, which prevent it to be used in a generalised or abusive manner. in particular, while the uk was still an eu member state, the uk high court assessed whether the immigration exemption was in line with the requirements of the gdpr and the charter, and it came to the conclusion that this is the case. more specifically, the high court concluded that the exemption can only be invoked in a specific case if otherwise there would be a very significant and ready chance of prejudice to the public interest at stake in this specific case. this is clearly a high standard developed by consolidated case law in the uk. it means in particular that a mere impact on immigration control is not sufficient to rely on the exemption. moreover, the uk data protection authority has assured detailed guidance for the use of the immigration exemption, making clear that it cannot be used in a blanket manner and that it must be carefully considered and the documented in each and every case. it is difficult to understand why such a provision that has not been changed since the uk left the eu would now need to be considered as not meeting the test of essential equivalence. the uk authorities have also shared some figures on how these limitations on the use of this exemption are reflected in practice. for example, the exemption was never applied in the context of the issuance of so-called settled status to more than 4 million eu citizens who were residing in the uk before the end of the transition period. when considering all immigration cases concerning european economic area citizens, the cases in which the exception was used in 2020 amount to 2.8 percent of such cases. that doesn’t mean that the situation can never change. we of course recognise the importance of this issue, that goes to the very heart of eu citizen rights when they travel to work or reside in the uk. and this is why following edpb opinions and exchanges in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe committee), we have specifically strengthened the monitoring clause of our draft decisions in that respect. the application of the immigration exemption and its impact on the effective exercise of individual rights in the uk is expressly identified as one of the areas that we will monitor very closely and an area where a lowering of protection would lead to launching the suspension or termination or amendment to our schedule. madame la présidente, mesdames et messieurs les députés, je crois que nous avons vraiment tenu à vérifier non seulement la situation légale en grande-bretagne, mais aussi la manière dont ces textes sont interprétés et appliqués – je viens d’en donner un exemple. cependant, il ne fait aucun doute que les données personnelles des citoyens européens doivent être protégées de manière adéquate lorsqu’elles sont transférées en dehors de l’union européenne. l’arrêt schrems ii de la cour européenne de justice rappelle les défis auxquels nous sommes confrontés pour garantir la protection des droits fondamentaux dans un monde numérique interconnecté et sans frontières, où un transfert de données peut avoir lieu en un seul clic. les entreprises doivent pouvoir s’appuyer sur des mécanismes de transfert solides, juridiquement sûrs et prévisibles. c’est ce à quoi les entreprises européennes s’attendent à juste titre, car elles sont amenées à transférer des données non seulement vers le royaume-uni ou les états-unis, mais également vers de nombreuses autres destinations dans le monde, dans le cadre de leurs opérations quotidiennes. c’est en travaillant avec des partenaires internationaux ayant des approches similaires que l’union peut être en mesure de façonner les règles du jeu au niveau global. ceci est encore plus important lorsque d’autres acteurs internationaux avancent un agenda différent, basé sur des valeurs fondamentalement différentes des nôtres. en ce qui concerne plus spécifiquement les décisions d’adéquation avec le royaume-uni, je pense que notre approche doit s’inspirer de celle suivie avec succès par mon ancien collègue, michel barnier, lors des négociations relatives au brexit: à la fois calme et objective, préparée à tous les scénarios possibles et déterminée à défendre les valeurs et principes de l’union avec la plus grande fermeté.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, i thank you for the detailed information you have given us. ladies and gentlemen, your speeches today demonstrate your agreement with the council on the importance of strict data protection standards when it comes to the transfer of personal data of european union citizens to third countries or territories. on the other hand, they also show the need to continue to allow these transfers in a secure way, especially for our close partners such as the united states or the united kingdom. as i said at the outset, the council is not formally part of the decision-making process on these adequacy decisions, but it attaches great importance to these instruments which are an essential component of the legal framework that allows the flow of personal data to and from our partners, while maintaining a high level of data protection for our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. second, the commission concluded that the united kingdom has maintained its protection in line with european union rules and that measures will be implemented to address any changes to the legal framework in the united kingdom. this is important for safeguarding the rights and interests of citizens and businesses, while keeping a watchful eye on the implementation of legislation.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this topic on the agenda. the social exclusion of roma is an injustice that we in the european union have failed to address with sufficient determination. it’s already a decade since the first eu framework for national integration strategies was put in place and, sadly, the results so far are disappointing. the figures are striking. as many as 63% of roma aged between 20 and 64 have no employment, education or training. the corresponding eu average is 12%. allow me also to recall some of the facts cited in the resolution that this parliament adopted in september last year. in countries with the largest population of roma, about 80% of roma live below the poverty line, one in three lives in a household without tap water and only half have an indoor flush toilet or a shower. only one in two roma children attend preschool or kindergarten and a mere fifth of roma women and a quarter of roma men have completed secondary education. these figures show that equality is not yet a reality in the eu and that life chances in our union are not the same for all. the situation of europe’s roma is the legacy of long—term inequality, lack of opportunities, prejudice, outright racism and discrimination. uniquely disadvantaged, the roma community is trapped in intergenerational poverty and it is time to break the cycle of disadvantage. our credibility as a just and fair union is at stake. the social dimension is one of the three main priorities of the portuguese presidency. i firmly believe that social fairness belongs at the heart of everything the union does, today more than ever, as we recover from the covid pandemic and we grapple with the enormous challenges that the shifts associated with green and digital transitions produce. at a time of hardship and uncertainty, it is essential that all citizens can count on the european social model and the values that underpin it: solidarity, convergence and cohesion. we have all suffered during the crisis, but for many roma its effects were compounded with pre-existing inequalities, as your resolution once again usefully reminds us. on the broad principles and values that make our social model there is broad consensus in europe. we saw this clearly two weeks ago in oporto for the porto social summit, a landmark event, which the european parliament also strongly supported and contributed to. a vision of a just and inclusive recovery is now clearly enshrined in the porto social commitment and the porto declaration, the essence of a common vision summed up in three headline targets on employment, training and poverty reduction. this was unanimously endorsed. these three targets are crucially relevant for roma. as we all know, the first ten—year campaign designed at eu level to improve the lives of roma, ended last year. the commission tabled new initiatives in the autumn. the council wasted no time in responding. in march this year, the member states adopted a new council recommendation that seeks to give fresh momentum to their policies. the three pillars of the recommendation are echoed in the title of today’s debate: equality, inclusion and participation. to date, our efforts have focused largely on education, employment, healthcare and housing. the new framework will seek to strengthen this approach by increasing the emphasis on three other core objectives: first, fighting and preventing anti—gypsyism and discrimination; second, reducing poverty and exclusion so as to close the social economic gap; and, third, promoting active participation through the empowerment and trust of these communities. the member states have undertaken to present their new strategic framework to the commission very soon, preferably by september this year. meanwhile the fundamental rights agency has been tasked with carrying out regular surveys every four years to ensure that we monitor progress objectively. it is true that member states have the key competence and the main responsibility for ensuring the well—being of their citizens, including minorities, but the added value of cooperation, inspiration and mutual learning is real and the union supports its member states through relevant funds and programmes so we need to use them well. to conclude, let’s remember our ultimate priority: europe’s people. when we speak of europe, we speak of a social europe that puts the well—being of its citizens first, especially the ones that are left behind and more vulnerable.
member of the commission. – madam president, respect for human dignity and equality are fundamental values of the eu. however, many roma across europe continue to face anti-gypsism, discrimination and exclusion in their daily lives. additionally, the covid-19 pandemic has hit marginalised roma communities particularly hard. overcrowded households and a lack of access to healthcare, clean water or a regular income are just some of the factors that have increased their vulnerability to negative health impacts. additionally, the mid-term socio-economic impact of the pandemic has put roma communities at risk of sliding even further into poverty and social exclusion. we have taken these lessons on board when designing the revised and strengthened eu roma strategic framework for equality, inclusion and participation, which we adopted last october. with this framework, we have set out a comprehensive three-pillar approach for the next 10 years. we will continue to work towards improving the inclusion of marginalised roma communities, with the long-term aim of closing the socio-economic gap between roma and non-roma. at the same time, we are providing a stronger focus to promoting equality and stepping up the fight against racism, discrimination and expressions of anti—gypsyism, and we will strengthen our efforts to promote participation through empowerment, cooperation and trust. we want to create the right conditions enabling all roma to realise their full potential and engage in political, social, cultural and economic life. with the new eu-roma strategic framework we are reaching out to all roma regardless of their socio—economic status. with this approach, we recognise that all roma can experience discrimination, including those who do not suffer from economic deprivation. we are also giving a stronger focus to diversity among roma because we want to ensure that national roma strategic frameworks meet the specific needs of the different groups, including women, youth, children, eu mobile citizens, stateless persons, lgbtiq persons, all the roma and those living with disabilities. we also acknowledge that inclusion is a two-way process. this is why the new strategic framework targets not just roma, but society as a whole. in order to make the best possible use of existing tools, we promote the mainstreaming of roma inclusion across all relevant policy areas and funding instruments. these range from policy initiatives such as the european education area, the child guarantee or the gender equality strategy to funding instruments including the esf+, the recovery and resilience facility or the investeu programme. at the same time, the new initiative also includes targeted measures in order to make sure that the roma have an effective equal access to rights and services. most importantly, we want to ensure that we achieve genuine results over the next 10 years. to be able to measure progress, we have defined seven objectives linked to the three pillars of equality, inclusion and participation. for each of these objectives we have defined quantitative targets and indicators that will allow effective monitoring and make the progress in implementation transparent and easily measurable for all actors. the commission will of course also monitor the implementation very closely and report on progress every two years, based on surveys from the fundamental rights agency, member states’ implementation reports and coordinated civil society reporting. i thank you very much for your attention and i am now looking forward to a constructive debate.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation of the roma, and the commission has also expressed its concern about the situation of the roma, who are a minority in europe. the council recommendation on the equality, inclusion and participation of roma, adopted on 12 march, again encourages the implementation of national strategic frameworks that guarantee equality and combat the social and economic exclusion and the risk of poverty suffered by a large part of this population; that promote their inclusion, and particularly of the most vulnerable people: women, children, youth, disabled people, etc.; that emphasise equal opportunities in access to education, lifelong learning, adult education, quality employment or health services, and, of course, equal treatment in housing, so that the minority is not permanently segregated, and in access to essential services. but i also want to stress the importance of a binding mandate to adopt legislation that commits the member states: not just recommendations, not just a strategic framework, but binding legislation. this parliament initiated at the time a directive on equal treatment, and that binding legislation is the one that the european parliament endorsed in the september 2020 resolution that has a distinguished member of the roma community of this european parliament, romeo franz, as rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the union is still too far away. i experience this when i visit the settlements in hungary every day. the last time i encountered this was in hajdúháadház, where the fidesz mayor of the city, csáfordi dénes, would inhumane way, using eu money, and moreover using eu money intended for detention, evict 12 roma families from social housing. the european union periodically adopts new roma strategies and recommendations with the aim of improving the situation of the european roma community, including the roma community in hungary. but what good is the european roma framework strategy adopted last year, for example, when national governments and local leaders with a vested interest can easily sabotage our aims? the issue in this debate is not what powers the eu, the member states or local authorities have, but what happens to the 12 roma families mentioned above. even if we manage to prevent evictions and the misuse of european funds for the needy against the interests of those in need, the question arises how many hajdúháza and how many csáfordi dénes there are in europe that we do not know about. the union will be far from the people until the humane and just aims we have set out are given legal form which will be binding on the member states. it will be a long way off as long as there is little control of government implementation by the eu institutions, leaving room for cohesion money to not only reduce but even increase disparities. we need to change this so that roma families do not have to fear being evicted from the european funds that are intended for them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. in the wake of the pandemic, we have observed that the interdependence between humanity and biodiversity is so deep that the vulnerability of the latter is also our vulnerability. we must of course support all efforts and work to halt the decline of biodiversity at all levels. however, the present left report in its current form is not feasible and lays down poorly defined objectives. it's important that we make a new deal with the living world. this is a huge work in progress that requires broad consensus and the destruction must be repaired by the polluters. the current health emergency is a warning that we must all heed. instead of unrealistic and elusive goals, we need to fundamentally rethink our relationship with the living world, with natural ecosystems and biodiversity.
mr president, the green certificate is a good compromise between the urgent need for reopening the economy of the eu and health safety. however, there is one weak point: discrimination between vaccines used by the member states, thus ultimately discriminating between citizens of the european union. after one full year of lockdown which saw some of the greatest achievements of the eu put into brackets, if not totally eliminated – i.e. free movement and schengen – one thing we cannot allow ourselves is vaccine chauvinism and vaccine exceptionalism. there are adversaries of the eu out there and trojan horses within the eu to disrupt the european union – viktor orbán and his government being just one of them – who are happy and ready to use this opportunity for authoritarian and anti—eu objectives. let’s not do them the favour of playing their game by their rules. hence, member states should not favour one vaccine over the other when implementing this initiative.
madam president, while the belarus opposition was celebrated as freedom fighters by the eu’s public and its exiled leaders were received at the highest level, the eu’s foreign policy remains ambiguous. ms tsikhanouskaya got hardly more than a pat on the shoulder and nice words, while lukashenko uses more and more violent methods against demonstrators at home. mr borrell, after so many months, we still don’t see a clear foreign policy strategy and clear answers to the question. how can we sanction the lukashenko regime in a way that doesn’t harm the ordinary citizens and which strengthens the opposition and stops belarus from drifting closer and closer to russia? are we willing to undertake reforms in the eu decision-making to make our foreign policy responses quicker and more articulate than they are now? and if so, what are these reforms? unfortunately, in any of the current resolutions i don’t see the answers to these questions.
in writing. the reform of the right of inquiry should reveal the real reason why this legal institution is not functioning properly. claiming more and more powers won't solve the problem. i agree with the importance of the principle of separation of powers also being of paramount importance in the regulation of the right of inquiry. it is necessary to expressly lay down the requirement, recognised by the constitutional rules of the member states, that a parliamentary committee of inquiry cannot be set up in a case which is also the subject of judicial proceedings. it's the only way to preserve the impartiality of the judicial process, the immunity from politics. at the same time, the european parliament is a co-legislature, the union is a specific entity, and its specific nature, its institutional balance, must be taken into account. the adoption of new procedural standards does not in itself make the detection of irregularities more effective. the extent to which a possible reform would affect the prerogatives of the national parliaments is an important question. the establishment of parallel structures is not only costly and inefficient, but may also undermine legal certainty. the parliamentary committees of inquiry of each member state are empowered to investigate the authorities of the member states, while the union institutions with the closest competence to investigate maladministration affecting the european public are those of the union institutions. it is therefore appropriate to encourage the improvement of the efficiency of procedures that could detect failures in the procedures of union enforcement authorities which are otherwise difficult to detect.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. while the coronavirus crisis has put all the important issues in the background these days, climate change is as pressing as ever. i welcome the fact that the council has put climate protection back on the agenda. i believe that the green transition is important, but we must also ensure that the population is the least affected and that the costs of climate neutrality, which is to be achieved gradually by 2005, are borne by the polluting companies. i'm against the idea that the energy use of buildings is included in the emissions trading system. that would impose significant burdens on households. it is therefore important that the commission considers the proposal carefully and carries out the necessary impact assessments. people must remain at the centre of climate action. we must keep the cost of the regime low, and we must not allow it to rise.
we now come to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 12.46 to 14.00. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting open and you have until 2 p.m. to exercise your right to vote. the results of this round of voting will be announced at 7 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 12.47 p.m.)
the following presidency statement on behalf of the union on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council conclusions on the implementation of the european council decisions is available at:
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for organising this important debate. as we all know, respect for the rule of law is critical to guaranteeing the sound functioning of the union. in recent years, this has been increasingly acknowledged: first with the introduction of a sanctions mechanism in the treaties; then with the introduction of the annual report by the commission, which gives member states an opportunity for self-reflection and exchange of best practices, while ensuring that all member states are treated objectively and equally; and, finally, with the entry into force, at the start of the portuguese presidency, of the new parliament and council regulation, which makes it possible to protect the union budget in case of breaches of the principles of the rule of law. the rule of law has been a priority throughout the semester of the portuguese presidency, since it is a crucial element to guarantee that our common values are well protected and complied with, and ultimately to ensure the very functioning of the union. we considered paramount the use of all available tools to protect and strengthen the values of our union and, for this reason, we chose to focus in addition to actions aimed at responding to challenges on constructive instruments, such as the annual rule of law dialogue. the country-specific discussion took place in our general affairs council on 20 april and demonstrated once more the importance of a constructive approach that allows member states to exchange not only best practices but also critical remarks. i have to say that this exchange on the situation in five member states went very well. in order to foster a real shared rule of law culture, we also organised a two-day international conference in coimbra on 17 and 18 may. mrs nicholsonová, chair of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), and mr lópez aguilar, chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), represented the voice of the european parliament and its highly valuable point of view at this conference. i would like to thank them once more for their participation. this forum confirmed the relevance of these issues and the need to involve all stakeholders. in particular, attention was paid to civil society participation. finally, as i have stated in this plenary before, i can confirm that the portuguese presidency, in accordance with its duties, intends to bring forward article 7(1) of the treaty procedure in full compliance, and we are planning to place this item on the agenda of the general affairs council on 22 june. now, moving to the application of the new conditionality mechanism, a theme of this debate, i understand that parliament expects more tangible and faster results. i know that the commission has advanced its work on guidelines, which will be essential to ensuring a fair, impartial and fact-based application of the regulation. at the same time, as, you know, in march, two member states introduced an action for annulment of this regulation. as mentioned by the european council in its december conclusions and without prejudice to the commission’s independence, the council believes it’s important for the commission to hear the judgment of the european court of justice before finalising these guidelines. indeed, taking the conclusions of the court of justice into account in the guidelines would increase the legal solidity of the application of the regulation. this robustness will also facilitate a speedy process on the council’s side once a proposal has been made by the commission. we hope that this can take place very soon. let me conclude by assuring you that the good functioning of the union, the protection of its budget and respect for the rule of law will remain a shared objective among us all.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i think it’s always useful to have another debate on the rule of law conditionality mechanism. the new regulation on the general regime of conditionality is a key element of the overall mff and budget package, which has now thankfully been approved and is in force. all of this is a historic achievement for the union. the conditionality regulation applies since the 1 january 2021 and has been followed up from that date. all relevant breaches affecting the sound financial management of the union budget and the financial interests of the union after that date will be covered. i will not tire to repeat that no case will be lost. since the beginning of this year, the commission has been screening all sources available to identify and assess rule of law breaches that may be relevant under the conditionality regulation. i have been in close and constructive touch with those of you following this dossier in substance, and i observe many others have stated their views on this. in this context, the commission relies on various sources of information, such as the rulings of the court of justice or reports of the court of auditors. one important source is, of course, the commission’s annual rule of law report. as you know, the commission is currently preparing the 2021 rule of law report, whose publication is expected in july. relevant rule of law issues reported on in the country chapters of the 2021 rule of law report will feed into the commission’s assessment under the conditionality regulation. the commission also carefully considers and follows up on complaints or other sources of information on its own motion. the commission will carry out its own assessment whether these sources and documents constitute reasonable evidence of breaches of the principle of the rule of law in a member state affecting or seriously risking to affect the sound financial management of the union budget or the protection of the financial interests of the union in a sufficiently direct way. the regulation is not an alternative to the procedure under article 7 of the treaty. it’s totally independent from it, as its specific purpose is the protection of the union budget and the union’s financial interests. the regulation complements the existing procedures to protect the union’s budget, including investigations by the european anti-fraud office and the european public prosecutor’s office, as well as interruptions, suspensions and financial corrections under the rules of cohesion policy funds and other instruments. in line with what the co-legislators agreed, the procedure under the regulation will be triggered if the conditions for its application are met, and unless other procedures under union legislation would allow the commission to protect the budget more effectively. the commission has prepared draft guidelines to bring clarity and predictability on the application of the regulation. my intention is to share this with the parliament by mid-june, meaning in a few days, as i have indicated this for several weeks now. we want to listen to the views of both the member states and the parliament on these draft guidelines. of course, the guidelines cannot and will not change the law as set by the regulation. the obligations and guarantees established by the regulation will be fully reflected in the guidelines and respected by them. first, the guidelines deal with the conditions for the adoption of measures which include individual and systemic breaches of the principles of the rule of law. the breaches must of course affect, or seriously risk affecting, the sound financial management of the union budget or the financial interests of the union in a sufficiently direct way. second, the guidelines explain the relation between the regulation and other sectoral legislation to protect the union budget and further explain the elements the commission will assess in order to propose appropriate and proportionate measures. i would recall that these are not sanctions. the final part of the guidelines explains how to protect the rights of final recipients or beneficiaries of union funding: an aspect that is very important for the parliament, for the commission and for all recipients of eu funding. so what about the process and the next steps? the commission has already been actively working on identifying breaches of the principles of the rule of law and assessing whether they affect the union budget in a sufficiently direct way. dialogue with the member states will be important for the commission to prepare its assessment. once the commission has reasonable grounds to consider that the conditions for the application of the regulations are fulfilled, it will send a written notification to the member states concerned. i have just set out all the action that is ongoing to ensure the conditionality mechanism has the success european taxpayers expect and deserve. in this light, and with reference to the motion for a resolution you have on the table, honestly, i don’t see any justification for bringing court action against the commission. but of course, it’s your decision.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank commissioner hahn and ms zacarias of the presidency for their statements. the rule of law regulation itself is a historic milestone forward in protecting the rule of law in europe. some time ago, it was difficult to even imagine this kind of situation where we are now – both in bad, but also a little bit in good – that we have this regulation. and having said that, i do believe we still need to remain realistic for the time being. yes, now we finally have the tools to tackle the rule of law deterioration as far as the budget is concerned, but this tool is not a sanction tool on just any rule of law misuse you can find, of which there are many. this is a tool to protect the union’s budget and it has to be treated and seen as such. the commission has promised to deliver us the guidelines we asked for in our march resolution by the first half of june. we are now preparing our own-initiative report on the guidelines, and i hope to see the commission’s version by next week. i also think it is of utmost importance that the commission will apply the regulation as soon as possible. but even more than that, for me and for my political group, it is important that the commission prepares the first cases against some member states in the best possible way it can. the first cases have to be watertight. there is no room for us to lose them or have them even corrected in the court, not if, but when, a member state challenges them in the european court of justice, and only here the regulation and its power will be measured. so now just my last words, please, madam president. with this resolution, we instruct the president of parliament to call on the commission to act on the basis of article 265 within two weeks. i hope that in two weeks, in the next mini-plenary, the commission will be there to provide us with some concrete answers.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the rule of law conditionality, the allocation of european funds linked to the democratic rule of law, has been in force for five months. and what happens? the court of justice ruled in poland at the beginning of march that changes to the law on the national council of the judiciary may be contrary to eu law, as there is no effective judicial review of decisions. at the beginning of may, the european court of human rights ruled that the composition of the constitutional court was illegal. and hungary? at the end of january, the commission reminded hungary that comprehensive changes to public procurement law were necessary to avoid systematic fraud in the recovery fund. in early march, the hungarian media council announced legal action against rtl ungarn, which had publicly campaigned for tolerance for rainbow families. the commission published its final report on the review of aid in the czech republic in mid-april. result: prime minister babiš is involved in massive conflicts of interest, has violated eu law, millions of euros have been misappropriated. five months, three member states. the commission has not yet adopted a regulation on crosscompliance. this is all the more so since the regulation can even be applied to breaches of contract before its entry into force. and so it is our duty to call on the commission, on the basis of article 265 of the treaty on european union, to finally do its duty and implement the regulation. otherwise, a breach of contract by default action is inevitable. and why is that so important? it's about the use of taxpayers' money and protecting our democratic values. it is about our european way of life.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a joint resolution on the situation of the rule of law in the european union is unacceptable. it caricatured two states, poland and hungary, and called for the financial retaliation measures provided for in the regulation of 16 december 2020 on cross-compliance to be applied against them. three passages in particular are particularly shocking. first, recital f, which refuses to recognise the validity of the agreement reached within the council to suspend that regulation pending the court's ruling on its legality. secondly, point 2, which violates national sovereignty by expressly stating that a member state is not free to amend its constitution as it wishes. finally, paragraph 7, in which parliament once again takes the side of migrants, without wanting to understand that we should fight the flood of migration that threatens us rather than organise it. in the face of these deviations, i would like to warn the majority of this parliament: the european union will not survive if it persists in violating the sovereignty, national identity and constitutional and cultural traditions of its member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, yes indeed, we have a serious problem with the rule of law in the european union: not in the member states, but in the eu itself. the violations of the treaties have become more and more frequent. what’s worse, this practice seems to be accepted by the european institutions as well as by the political forces that control them. take the so-called rule of law framework. from the very beginning it was obvious that the treaties disallow such a procedure, if only because it violates the principle of conferral as specified in article 5. soon after this framework appeared in 2014, the legal services of the council of the european union wrote a devastating critique of the project. what did the commission and the parliament do? nothing. probably they put the document into the shredder. a couple of years later in 2018, the same legal services presented another critical opinion, even more devastating; the same reaction, silence and the shredder. even the european court of auditors criticised this mechanism and its opinion wound up in the shredder, too. then the parliament came up with the rule of conditionality, which in the form proposed by the parliament, is simply a legal monstrosity, violating almost everything that can be violated. what it can and probably will amount to we have all heard in the statement of some of the speakers this afternoon, and many of those who follow will probably continue in the same vein. to say that these remarks are being made in complete disregard for the rule of law, as specified in the treaties, would be an understatement. if anyone wants to know what the contempt for law is like, well, that was it. the council introduced some rationality to the mechanism and i can see to my satisfaction that the commissioner does not want to go beyond what the treaties allow. i should be satisfied, and in a way i am. but we have heard other statements from other commissioners in the past with the opposite message, so i’m not sure what the commission’s ultimate position is. aren’t you by any chance playing a good cop-bad cop game? this sense of uncertainty which i feel is shared by millions of people in europe. the treaties are being strained, reinterpreted at will, twisted. they no longer give protection, but have become the instruments of the ruling majority to strengthen its hegemony. this tendency unfortunately seems to include the court of justice. as you might remember, this parliament launched article 7 against hungary after having introduced a last-minute change in the voting procedure, excluding abstentions. this was definitely foul play, and without the change, the anti-hungarian majority would have lost. this was clearly a breach of article 354, which explicitly stipulates that all votes cast should be included. but just recently, the court of justice intervened in an epoch-making ruling to the effect that abstentions are not to be qualified as votes cast. the ruling is not only an assault on human intelligence. this is law in the service of party politics, but more importantly, this is a sign that for the court of justice as well as for other european institutions, anything goes as long as they can have their way. so what we have seen so far on the condition of the debates in the parliament and outside it has been a rather depressing spectacle. commissioner, i wish your statement could mark a change in this abominable practice of a cavalier approach to the treaties, but something is telling me that such a conclusion may be premature, and considering this parliament’s plan for the future of europe, i fear the worst.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, europe was built for peace, in the shared adherence of all to a contract based on respect for the values of freedom, equality and democracy. make no mistake: our fight for the rule of law is a historic fight for the survival of the very essence of europe. it is a fight for europe, but it is also a fight for the world, because if democracy recedes in europe, it will recede everywhere else. we cannot continue to let the freedom-loving and corrupt governments act with impunity and risk that tomorrow a shadow will be cast over the whole of europe that is even more opaque than today's. you see, when it came to triggering budget cuts against the countries of the south, the european commission never backed down. but when it comes to fundamental rights, the commission, perhaps out of a lack of courage, is hiding behind the scenes and leaving european citizens unprotected. this is intolerable, and this is even though our parliament has decided on the rule of law mechanism, which must now be applied against states which are not only happy to offend values, but also plunge into corruption on european cohesion funds and laugh at us. so i say to you calmly but firmly: under the rule of law, when parliament decides, the commission must act.
madam president, commissioner, the european union is the flagship of democracy. another common heritage of political principles is precisely respect for human rights and the rule of law. the rule of law is the alpha and omega of everything that happens in the european union, and that is why it is perhaps of the utmost importance that the rule of law is respected as a principle. yes, it is to be observed by the member states, as has been mentioned several times here. but what if the member states that make up the european union do not? what if the member states have forgotten what they committed to in the beginning? because it's a fragile system that we have to take care of. a well-functioning judiciary, an anti-corruption system, or an independent police force, freedom of speech, free elections, these are things we have to fight for all the time. we keep seeing someone coming, some savior, some oligarch, who thinks he can buy us all and dictate terms to suit him and his companies. it's important that we try to free this system of democracy from the influence of certain people. it is important that there are independent institutions that are able to investigate certain cases. we can see in some countries that the cases of influential politicians are being swept under the carpet. and that makes this debate all the more important today. i believe we're going to move forward in this debate.
this was a masterpiece for the interpreters, for i doubt that anyone can speak as fast as you just did. i would ask that we speak a little slower, because then we will also be able to take up this difficult and important matter more easily.
madam president, i have 90 seconds to describe to the house why we stand zero chance of protecting our historic eu budget unless the commission starts applying the rule of law conditionality immediately. not in a few months, not after some guidelines are adopted, but right away. so in 90 seconds, so let me tell you about the son—in—law of viktor orbán, who continues to pocket fortunes of eu subsidies despite that eu investigators concluding that he is guilty of defrauding the union. or there is the childhood best friend of mr orbán, a former humble gas fitter, who is now the richest man of hungary with a company growing faster than us tech giants and who, by the way, pocketed over one billion euros worth of subsidies. he was just seen recently installing an 800-kg safe in his new luxury villa. maybe he’s also waiting for the recovery funds to start flowing. so this is the reality on the ground. what we have been talking about for years and why we created the conditionality mechanism. so why does the commission refuse to apply it? is it naivety? is it political pressure? or just officials brushing this issue under the rug saying it’s a small member state that’s far away while our own european money is at stake and while orbánism is spreading like wildfire. if the commission president would be directly elected, then she would need to look voters in the eye and explain the results and the reasons behind her inability to act. but this parliament is the voice of 450 million citizens, and we won’t back down until this mechanism is applied. and yes, we are willing to go to court for it because citizens demand and deserve results from us. (applause)
in writing. the nature and complexity of cyber threats are constantly changing, making cybersecurity a key priority for the union in its digitisation drive. i welcome the motion for a resolution on the eu cybersecurity strategy for the digital decade, which takes appropriate measures to make cyberspace safer. the aim is to strengthen europe's resilience to cyber threats and to ensure that all citizens and businesses have access to and can fully benefit from trusted services and digital tools. in my view, the eu must therefore make a serious effort to defend itself against cyberattacks from third countries. i believe that in order to reduce technological dependence, the union needs greater strategic autonomy in cybersecurity. the pandemic has shown how vulnerable europe is and why it needs to reduce its dependence on global supply chains. we must strive to strengthen european development in critical infrastructures and build defence capability, so that europe can become a safe area.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the fight against climate change is crucial for the future of europe and the world. europe's potential to become the world's first climate-neutral continent is a major success, but it is also a challenge and an opportunity. the eu must take the lead by taking real action to combat climate change, to protect our natural world, and to ensure that the transition is fair to all members of society. i'm not going to tell you. we will insist that neither citizens nor families pay the costs of the green transition. protecting the environment, preserving jobs and businesses is all important in these challenging circumstances. the point is that eu climate policy cannot succeed if the eu imposes a disproportionate burden on our businesses.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we've told you many times that climate change knows no borders. in the coming days, my country, hungary, will be hit by a terrible heat wave, but any other european country can expect it in the coming days this is a test for both old and young. that is why climate change is not a national responsibility, but a collective one. it's a great thing that the climate bill was born, because it's not just about making loud political promises, it's about taking real action. the law requires the european union to become climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. but this cannot be done by the ngos alone, or by politicians who are more keenly interested in the subject, it needs everyone. we must all understand that there is one earth, and we must act together. our "trying to do everything" has proven to be too little, we need more. all governments in all member countries, whether right-wing or left-wing, must act, and must commit themselves to decades of unwavering, committed work. i am glad that the european union has taken the lead in this fight, as we have proven time and again that we are always more successful together.
that concludes the agenda item. the amendments will be voted on tomorrow, and the final vote will be on wednesday.
the following is a summary of the report of ms kathleen van brempt on the commercial implications and consequences of the covid-19 pandemic (2020/2117 ((ini)) (a9-0190/2021).
that concludes the agenda item. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the following is an extract from the report by mr antonio lópez-istúriz white on eu-nato cooperation in the context of transatlantic relations (2020/2257 (ini)) (a9-0192/2021).
that concludes the agenda item. the amendments will be voted on tomorrow, and the final vote will be on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following is a summary of the report by mr gabriele bischoff on the amendment of articles 99, 197, 213, 214, 222, 223, 230, 235 and annex v to the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the addition of a new article 106a (2021/2048 (reg)) (a9-0214/2021).
that concludes the agenda item. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. one of the proposals in the bischoff report amending parliament's rules of procedure is to delete rule 197 of the rules of procedure. the possibility for a majority of all members of parliament to initiate a vote to remove a debate from the agenda shall be abolished. parliament deletes from the rules of procedure an article protecting minority groups and independents, which is intended to protect political diversity and the principle of democracy. without this, meps in independent and minority groups cannot - even in the event of a serious legal error - propose the removal from the agenda of items supported by the major groups, even though the rules restricting political diversity make it fundamentally more difficult for them to do so. meanwhile, legal concerns have been raised about the functioning of the ep during the pandemic. although i suggested that the court review the validity of the december amendment to the house rules due to the pandemic, it was rejected. parliament switched to digital remote voting in february 2020 without any legal basis and, due to its own negligence, adopted new rules to remedy the situation only 10 months after the outbreak began. however, even then, he changed his house rules by remote vote, whereas they could only have been changed by a vote in person. it also failed to comply with the contractual provisions on the number of plenary sessions in strasbourg, and the rights of members were restricted by reference to the epidemiological situation. the level of democracy deficit has clearly increased during the pandemic.
madam president, as far as policy is concerned, the programme of the slovenian presidency is solid material. but what i find disconcerting is the gap between what this document contains concerning shared values of the european union and your recent implications, statements and actions in this regard as prime minister, mr janša. in this respect, thank you for invoking the historical process in which post-communist countries like yours and mine, hungary, joined the european union. our citizens, first and foremost, opted for values such as democracy, rule of law, pluralism and transparency, values that are beyond ideology, not leftist liberal traits, as you and your best friend viktor orbán imply. these values are not subject to interpretation, not up for debate, they are absolute and constant. so please respect them.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following point is dealt with in the debate on the oral question to the commission by mr mcallister and mrs arena, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu global human rights sanctions system (magnitsky act) (o-000047/2021 - b9-0028/21) (2021/2563 (((rsp)). on the question to be answered orally by mr david mcallister and mrs maria arena, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, to the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu global human rights sanctions system (magnitsky act) (o-000048/2021 - b9-0029/21) (2021/2563 ((rsp)).
madam president, the eu magnitsky act was a major step, but it’s a job half—done ‒ until corruption is included as a punishable offence. all major democracies sanction corruption ‒ the us, canada, recently the uk ‒ and only the eu is missing. this is not just a minor policy detail. we risk becoming a safe haven for dirty money. the corrupt autocrats who are fretting over the recent sanctions in the city of london basically see a billboard here saying, ‘bring your money here, it’s safe here, it’s the only place in the west where you won’t be sanctioned’. this is absurd. the reason behind this is, again, the unanimity rule – because our own kleptocrats, like mr orbán, still have a veto over our foreign affairs. remember what alexei navalny told us last november: until putin’s oligarchs park their yachts in european ports, no one in the kremlin will take eu sanctions seriously. this is about our credibility ‒ and our credibility is the key to our safety because authoritarians read the news as well. they know when we are divided, and they will weaponise it. so it’s time to take this weapon away.
mr president, ponder this: poland and hungary are the biggest beneficiaries of european funding. in 2018, poland paid in eur 3.98 billion and, in return, received eur 16.35 billion, four times more than they paid in. hungary paid in eur 1.076 billion and received six times more than that, eur 6.298 billion. at least the portuguese presidency moved forward on the article 7 suspension procedure by organising hearings on hungary and poland. it is my hope that this will provide a sufficient basis to stop the rule of law backsliding in these and, potentially, other member states. without respect for the rule of law, we cannot have a fair and just society. with regard to poland, we see major issues with the constitutional tribunal, the disciplinary regime against judges and a muzzle law against judges who criticise the government’s judicial overhaul and the dismissal of judges. in bullyboy viktor orbán’s hungary, attacks against lgbti people, judges, journalists, academics and activists have increased since the beginning of the pandemic. hungary’s new law will have devastating effects. it means that vulnerable young people will be deprived of important support. it is essential that young people especially be ensured access to comprehensive sexuality and relationship education, which is non—judgmental and objective. the adopted law is a direct contradiction of the values and respect for human dignity on which the union is founded. there are conditionality clauses in relation to european funding. we should use them.
mr president you know, there is not a single person in this room who would speak out against hungary, and whatever lies viktor orbán is telling you, there is no one here who would organize a conspiracy against the hungarian people. because hungary is still the same beautiful, breathtakingly beautiful country, with budapest, with the somewhat nostalgic balaton, with the tokai or the wines of the town of villány, and we hungarians are the same people who are known throughout the world for our hospitality. and you can laugh with us like a giant, or you can party at the festivals, at the sziget, kapolcson or balaton sound, or you can save the world after a big hungarian lunch, with a little stomach ache. and this beautiful country has been taken hostage by a corrupt politician. with cynical, racist and homophobic politics. so you, the honourable committee and the council, have only one job to do. stop and end the funding of viktor orbán's family members and oligarchs, and we'll know our business. we will prove that hungary is not equal to viktor orbán and we will bring hungary back to where it belongs, to europe, to its friends and allies. i'm committed to this.
mr president this is the sixth debate where we talk about viktor orbán's unjust regime. we have been arguing for years, but the hungarian people have so far received no real help in their fight against the inhuman system, apart from empty words. but this is not only the hungarian people's fight, but the fight of all europe, and while europe is debating and hesitating, viktor orbán is not sitting idly by. a chinese communist university, fudan, is being brought to the heart of europe, leaving generations in debt. through fidesz foundations, it organizes the national wealth and hungarian higher education into its own pocket, and sells hungary's highways in concession. finally, to divert attention from all this, he brings a divisive law that turns hungarians against hungarians, stigmatizes, divides and incites hatred. i want you to understand that hungary does not need empty words, but real actions. we must protect the hungarian people, because hungary is not equal to viktor orbán. this is what european solidarity is all about, and while we are debating the rule of law and shared laws, remember: human lives and destinies are at stake.
mr president, in 2014, hungarian gay rights activist, milan rozsa, climbed into the fortified russian embassy in budapest. he held up a rainbow flag and called out putin’s anti-gay law and the violence unleashed by it. milan was a friend of mine, one of the most passionate and brave people i ever knew, and a few months later, he took his own life. his tragedy sheds light on all the mental pain that lgbti people very often suffer from. and this is beyond tragic that we are here today to witness the exact replica of putin’s law being adopted in the eu. right now, in hungary, it’s illegal for teachers to talk to high-schoolers about diversity and acceptance, or for kids to watch cartoons with queer characters in it. this law conflates gay people with paedophiles, and it incites violence and hatred – and we already see that. if this is not enough for the eu to take action, then nothing else will be. so i tell you what to do: stop funding viktor orbán’s corruption. apply the rule of law mechanism. because human rights abuses are only a means for him, and kleptocracy is the ultimate end.
in writing. please read the law! (previous sections can be found in the written comments of tamás deutsch, bocskor andrea, járóka lívia, ádám kósa) the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this directive by laying down detailed rules on the application of this directive to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies. amending the 5th amendment to the media services and mass communications act 2010 the amendment of act clxxxv of . . . (5) section 179 (2) of the mttv (2) in the event of problems identified in relation to paragraph 1 and of a breach of the relevant provisions of this act and the smtv., the media council shall request effective action from the member state which has the media council therefore requests that the media service provider referred to in paragraph 1 be subject to the jurisdiction of the european parliament. ♪ take action to put an end to the infringements identified by the media council.
madam president, please. 'nothing lasts forever' - so they say, but where and when will the coronavirus pandemic end? the spread of mutations means that we need better and faster solutions than ever before to successfully manage the crisis. in order to improve the coordination of the union's response to health emergencies, it is important to strengthen the role of the european medicines agency. however, i am concerned that the provisions of the proposed legislation on the reporting of drug shortages would unduly increase the burden on member states and european businesses. it has been shown that only nation states are able to act quickly and effectively, as vaccine procurement at eu level has not performed well either. it is therefore important not to burden member states with new tasks in the fight against the disease.
mr president europe is facing unprecedented environmental and climate challenges that threaten our future. while only one hour is allocated to environmental debates this plenary week, a number of issues of national competence have been put on the ep's agenda. there are endless political debates on baseless rule of law issues, and we have seen several hours of debate on child protection measures in hungary, which are reinterpreted according to liberal demands and fall within the competence of the member states. mr president, instead of these debates, the hungarian people want action from the union to guarantee a cleaner environment and cleaner air. according to the latest survey by the european commission, nine out of ten people consider climate change to be the most serious problem. so we need to take responsibility and accelerate the green transition.
mr president, madam commissioner, one year ago this house condemned the introduction of hong kong’s national security law for violating the city’s autonomy, rule of law and fundamental freedoms. the hong kong government ensured that this law would ensure stability. one year later we stand here again, witnessing the brutal attack on freedom of press, freedom of speech, as china cements its control. the message from the european parliament is clear today. the forced closure of apple daily and harassment of journalists are unacceptable, and the eu must take action. but while china desperately tries to silence voices, it can never silence ideas. the seat of democracy is planted firmly in the minds of the people of hong kong, and the european union will stand firmly beside them in their defence of their freedom.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, today’s debate on hong kong, as you’ve all pointed to, is taking place in the week following the first anniversary of the draconian national security law. on 24 june hong kong’s main pro-democracy media outlet, apple daily, printed its final edition, after several of its leading journalists, including the owner jimmy lai, were arrested. this is just the latest step in a severe political deterioration over the past 12 months. political activists have been imprisoned. opposition parties oppressed. civil servants compelled to take oaths of loyalty, and media, civil society and academia confronted with new restrictions and the need to self-censor. as stated by hr/vp borrell on 9 june, the european union will continue implementing the response package agreed in july of last year. we will also intensify our response through increasing support to civil society – including those outside hong kong – and the media, promoting freedom of expression, facilitating mobility, as well as ensuring observation of the trials of pro-democracy activists. the eu office, eu member states and other like-minded missions are systematically monitoring court proceedings. a visit of high-level eu officials will be considered once conditions allow. the european union will step up coordination and consultation with international partners, including in multilateral fora. the eu is also committed to responding to any extraterritorial application of the national security law against any eu citizen or business. since imposition, this law has been used by the hong kong and mainland authorities to stifle political pluralism and the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms that are protected under hong kong law and international law. china claims that what is happening in hong kong is an internal matter and that the eu’s reaction is interference. we reject this. what is happening in hong kong constitutes a breach of international commitments. in particular of the sino-british joint declaration, which was registered with the un as an international treaty. as hr/vp borrell has said, it is a question of trust and of whether prior international commitments are respected. these actions undermine hong kong’s autonomy under the ‘one country, two systems’ principle and contradict china’s international commitments. the european union will continue to stand by the people of hong kong.
author. – mr president, the death penalty is an inhuman punishment, disregarding the crime committed or the fairness of the trial, the deliberate execution of human beings should not ever be allowed. it is ineffective, has no deterrent effect, and it is often used as a political tool. i strongly oppose capital punishment and support the european union’s call for its worldwide abolition, especially in the case of convicted minors. this morning, we already heard the debate on a case in iran. now we focus on the situation in saudi arabia, but also in many other countries and around the world the death penalty is still frequently used. although the saudi authorities announced an end to the death penalty for minors for certain crimes in 2018, mustafa hashem al-darwish and abdullah al-howaiti were still sentenced with capital punishment. severe questions have been raised about their trials and i deplore the verdict of the court. unfortunately, the sentence of mustafa hashem al-darwish has already been executed. but i urge the government of saudi arabia to halt all pending executions and to commute all death sentences.
author. mr president, commissioner, the saudi authorities had announced an ambitious human rights reform programme linked to crown prince mohammed bin salman's plans to modernise the country. one of the key commitments was to abolish the use of the death penalty for minors. however, it is clear that the saudi authorities have once again reneged on their promises. on 15 june, mustafa hashem al-darwish, a young saudi from the shia minority, was executed after being subjected to torture and a grossly unfair trial. next on the list could be abdullah al-howaiti. some 40 other prisoners await the same fate on saudi arabia's death row, including peaceful dissidents and people who have dared to criticize the saudi regime. i am therefore surprised that the conservative right in this house, through the voice of the ecr group, is saying that the use of the death penalty in saudi arabia is declining. this is completely contrary to the facts, and the only reason the number of executions was lower in 2020 compared to previous years is not due to government reforms, but due to covid, as many trials were postponed. this increase in executions is part of a wider pattern of deterioration in the human rights situation in saudi arabia, despite promises of reform. indeed, many women activists are still in prison and those who have been released, such as loujain al-hathloul, face arbitrary restrictions on their rights, including the right to travel. these violations, and many others, continue to occur because there has never been accountability for previous crimes, such as the murder of journalist jamal khashoggi in 2018. both the un special rapporteur, mrs callamard, and the us intelligence services had established the personal responsibility of crown prince mohammed bin salman for this murder. it is precisely this impunity that inspires new abuses. it is therefore imperative that the european union implements its global human rights sanctions regime against saudi officials. and the leaders of the european institutions should probably interact with king salman as the head of state, and not confer legitimacy on mohammed bin salman, treating him as such in the manner of the us administration and its president joe biden.
author. – mr president, imagine that your child disappears on the way back from school and all your calls for help are ignored by authorities, and then you open the newspaper to see that your child was executed, and you will never see him again. and this is not some poorly written movie plot. this is the unfathomable reality families still face across saudi arabia. kids are routinely arrested, held incommunicado, tortured into admission, denied access to lawyers and family members while they languish on death row. executions are outrageous by themselves, but executing minors is really a practice that never should have existed. let me be very clear. it must be abolished from the face of the earth and saudi arabia pledged to do just that. and yet it continues to execute children up until this very day. we are way past the point of strongly worded resolutions. we need to stop supplying the saudi regime with technology that could be used to oppress their own citizens, we could never be complicit in this crime. so let’s turn up the heat on council colleagues and let’s make this happen.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the european union is unequivocally opposed to the use of capital punishment in all cases and without exception. it is a cruel and inhumane punishment which fails to act as a deterrent and represents an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity. we remain concerned about the continued use of the death penalty in saudi arabia. according to our sources, in 2019 184 people were executed in saudi arabia. a lower number, 27, were executed last year, partially due to an informal moratorium on executions for drug-related crimes. but each and every execution is unacceptable. in april 2020, a royal decree expanded the provisions of a 2019 law, setting the age of minors at 18 years and exempting minors from the death penalty for most crimes. both the informal moratorium on executions for drug-related crimes and the adoption of the royal decree were steps in the right direction. however, more is needed. the royal decree does not cover all categories of criminal offences committed by juveniles, and it should be expanded. the imposition of the death penalty on an individual who was a child at the time of the alleged crime goes against internationally accepted minimum standards. we have seen the commuting of death sentences for some juveniles who had been sentenced to death. this eu special representative for human rights has raised the case of abdullah al-howaiti and other juveniles with the saudi human rights commission and with the saudi ministry of foreign affairs. the european union deeply regrets the execution of mustafa hashem al-darwish. the eu special representative for human rights has publicly conveyed this regret. worryingly, it brings the number of people executed in saudi arabia this year to 27, the same number executed in 2020. we have seen conflicting reports about the age when mustafa hashem al-darwish committed the alleged crimes for which he was executed. the european union will continue to consistently reiterate its principled position against the use of death penalty in the kingdom of saudi arabia and advocate for a complete de facto moratorium as a first step towards a formal and full abolition of the death penalty.
in writing. the criminal cases involving mustafa hashem al-darwish and abdullah al-huwaiti highlight the harsh application of the death penalty in saudi arabia, in this case to minors, and the plight of shias, who face uncompromising criminal justice. the european parliament's plenary sessions also provided an opportunity to discuss the situation of women (as illustrated by the trial in loujain al-hathloul) and the plight of ethiopian migrants in saudi jails. these abuses, which continue in the embarrassed silence of the west, are evidence of a certain double-speak in human rights, as for example the g20 summit in saudi arabia last year. this double standard is also evident in the field of labour law, since the west is largely unaware of the practice of kafala in the gulf states. the award of the 2022 fifa world cup to qatar is a clear demonstration of this.
the second round of voting is now under way. the votes on the dossiers will be taken as indicated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:00. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4.30 p.m. the discussions will continue with the commission's statement on plans and actions to accelerate the transition to innovation without the use of animals in research, regulatory testing and education. (the sitting was suspended at 1.49 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the plans and action to accelerate the transition to innovation without the use of animals in research, mandatory testing and education (2021/2784 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the european union is committed to supporting animal welfare, to improving public health and protecting the environment. we recognise that animals have intrinsic value and the commission is convinced that animal testing should be phased out in europe. we are working towards this goal in particular by means of the directive on the protection animals in science, which, as i will explain, is a strategic approach. at the global level this directive is unique as its ultimate goal is the full replacement of animal use in science. the directive is also among the most stringent legislation in the world for protecting the welfare of animals that are still needed for use in scientific research. in the european union all living animals used in science are protected by this very strict legislation. it applies to the use of animals in all disciplines, from basic research to applied research, the development of medicines, and the safety testing of chemicals. the directive is overarching. all member states have enacted it in their national legislation. all sector-specific pieces of legislation such as on pharmaceuticals, food or chemicals, must be in line with the objectives of the directive. that means in practice that the use of animals is only allowed if there are no suitable alternatives. any new initiatives that the commission is taking, such as the chemical strategy for sustainability, must fully respect the directive’s ultimate goal of phasing out all animals used in science. and let me recall that the use of animals is already forbidden if there are alternative methods available and that the eu already has a ban on using animal testing for cosmetics. as part of our commitment to the eventual replacement of all animals in science, the commission actively supports the development of alternatives by funding research. this amounts to some eur 800 million over the past 20 years. we also host the european union reference laboratory for alternatives to animal testing. this way we make tangible contributions to the development and validation of non-animal alternatives. the laboratory has some 50 staff at the commission’s joint research centre in ispra. in addition, the commission is actively involved in, finances and co-chairs the european partnership for alternative approaches to animal testing. this is a public-private partnership that includes five directorates-general of the european commission, 37 companies and 8 european industry federations, each representing a separate industrial area. the partnership aims at replacing animal testing by innovative non-animal testing methods, to reduce the number of animals used, and to refine procedures where no alternatives exist or are not sufficient to ensure the safety of substances. the directive on the protection of animals in science obliges the member states and the commission to be fully transparent on the use of animals in science and we recently launched alures, a database of statistics that is publicly available. the level of transparency is unique in the world. it helps determine which disciplines use the most animals and use the most severe tests and hence it helps us to better focus the research into alternative methods in these areas. this transparency is a tool showing how many animals are being used in science in the eu and helping us to focus the research. another tool is knowledge-sharing, showcasing alternatives that are already available and others that are being developed. by shining a light on this progress on alternatives and engaging in the debate, we want to stimulate more change. recent examples include two very well-attended scientific conferences, including one in february this year. scientists showed, for example, 3d human kidney tubules for drug-efficacy testing and stem cell models that mimic the function of human organs. we also aim to stimulate trust in those new methods. as i said at the outset, our ultimate goal is to replace the use of animals for scientific purposes. that goal is reflected in eu legislation. we are working towards this goal with all the means we have – research policy, legislation and funding. while science is making progress, we are always looking for ways to accelerate the move towards this goal and reduce the use of animals in science. the different sectors for which we have european legislation, such as human and veterinary medicine, chemicals, food and feed, are all bound to the objectives of this directive to replace the use of animals. we are making targeted efforts. we are pursuing a collaborative and gradual approach, but more scientific knowledge is needed for phasing out animal testing and research completely. so thank you very much for your attention. i’m looking forward to your comments to take to my colleague in charge of this dossier.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes states that the directive is an important step towards the ultimate goal of replacing all experiments on living animals for scientific purposes and that it is desirable to replace the use of live animals in experiments by other methods which do not require the use of live animals. the purpose of the directive is to facilitate and promote the use of alternative methods. we know, however, that the reality is quite different. more than ten years after the adoption of the directive, the painful animal experiments continue unabated. millions of mice, fish, birds, but also cats and dogs are used in animal experiments in the eu every year. the animals are force-fed with dangerous substances, their vital organs are surgically removed. they're genetically modified. they are subjected to brutal abuse such as broken bones or regular exposure to toxic substances. the fact that animals are still subjected to so-called pain tests where they are burned on hot plates is completely unacceptable. science has advanced so rapidly that we are now, if not sooner, truly ready to begin a phase-out of animal testing for scientific purposes. the pandemic has shown that research and scientific decisions and experiments need to be done on humans. animals have not shown the same symptoms as humans. at the same time, we can also see how new technologies are helping us to better understand the effects of the virus on human lungs, brain and kidneys. nor is it only in the field of infectious diseases that scientific progress is being made. the commission's own studies by the joint research centre on non-animal methods in biomedical science, which set out the direction that research needs to take to win the fight against cancer, neurodegenerative diseases and cardiovascular disease. we now have two co-opted co-legislators. either we continue on the path the commission has taken, with insufficient investment and lack of coordination of innovative solutions that do not require animal testing. or we invest in smart ways, set concrete targets and coordinate our actions to jointly address the health risks we face as a union. the eu needs to invest more to become a world leader in innovation, which strengthens our economic resilience but also prepares us for future crises. the next step is for the commission to set up an overall working group, including the relevant directorates-general, to work with the member states and stakeholders to develop an action plan to phase out the use of abusive animal research.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, animals are not disposable equipment. inflicting pain and suffering on them has no place in 21st century science. for many of us, this is an ethical and moral imperative. and we see that despite minimum standards, cruel practices still take place within the union. just a couple of months ago, we witnessed video footage revealing shocking levels of cruelty and animal suffering that breached european animal-testing laws. findings from a major investigation in spanish contract-testing laboratory vivotecnia showed deliberate acts of cruelty and repeated bad practice. and all of this happens only 18 months after similar findings were revealed in a german laboratory. and even health scientists are questioning the reliability of animal studies. let me quote the british medical journal, which says that the claim that animal experimentation is essential to medical development...(... inaudible ...) so science and morality point into the very same conclusion: there are cruelty-free alternatives like computational biology that can enable us to get rid of animal testing once and for all. but ever since i started looking into these issues, i kept on hearing that complete change is impossible, and i get it – old habits die hard, and i even accept that this won’t happen by the...(... inaudible ...) ... is doing better than the rest of the world, but even here, progress is way too slow. we need a credible plan, a plan that measures, targets, and a binding, ambitious timeline. we need to promote and fund cruelty-free alternatives. we want to see increased funding for animal-free research methods and new, advanced non-animal models under horizon europe, and then we have to start creating...(... inaudible ...)... testing bans. this is what our citizens demand, 7 in 10 adults in eu member states believe that enabling the full replacement of all forms of animal testing with non-animal testing methods should be a priority for the eu. and this is what we are asking from the commission.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has fundamentally changed everyone's lives, and now more than ever, we need achievable goals and effective health programmes. the future will require a greater focus on health and a faster response to unforeseen health threats. the development of the european centre for disease prevention and control will enable the eu institutions, in cooperation with the member states, to ensure the protection of the health of european citizens in the future. it is important that common sense dictates the rules and that the health sector remains a matter for the member states. the union must do more to achieve the general objectives of strengthening the protection of the population against cross-border health threats and promoting access to and affordability of medicines and medical devices. therefore, the extension of the centre's competence to the monitoring of non-communicable diseases cannot be supported. it is also important to note that in early 2020, when the health threat posed by the coronavirus was already clear, the centre did not properly analyse the situation and make recommendations to member states, further demonstrating that the priority now would be to strengthen the centre's original role rather than expand its mandate. the hungarian government puts human life, people's lives and safety first, which is why i am concerned about parliament's proposals to create new structures which would make it much more difficult, or, where appropriate, impede, member states' crisis management.
madam president, after the tragedy of 9/11, the invasion of afghanistan was initiated with two main objectives: a military objective of liquidating terrorists and a political objective of constructing a democratic society. after two decades of war, the sad reality is that neither were accomplished. and why? because the west failed to understand the complex reality of afghanistan. in a decentralised, ethnically and tribally based society, centralised governance is doomed to failure. apart from dealing with the immediate challenges of a humanitarian crisis and the security challenges of neighbouring states, the most daunting task we face today is defending western values globally. after such a debacle, how can we possibly expect anyone in afghanistan, or indeed elsewhere, to make sacrifices, let alone fight for democracy and freedom?
in writing. i am pleased to see lebanon on the agenda of the plenary, especially after such important days, when the decision was taken to establish a long-awaited government with full powers. the new government has a lot of important tasks to do, because in addition to the political crisis, the economic and financial crisis is getting worse. power cuts, fuel and food shortages, mounting pressure on hospitals, massive youth unemployment and a growing refugee population are all part of everyday life in a country that is in urgent need of humanitarian aid. barely a year after last year's beirut explosion, another tragedy shook the country in august this year, but the explosion of the fuel tank in akkar is now a terrible consequence of the deepening crisis. we have a duty to stand with the christian communities in the country. the time for political negotiations is over, now we must act! i agree that reforms are essential for the long-term development of the country, but humanitarian aid cannot be delayed any longer. the european union could help lebanon by being more active in its role as mediator and not by threatening sanctions mechanisms. the eu can only truly act as a partner for its southern neighbours if it helps to find solutions. i wish the prime minister najib mikati and his government success and perseverance.
madam president, colleagues, firstly, i would like to compliment the commission on the extraordinary achievement of tackling the enormous challenges of the pandemic. regarding our economies, the recovery facility proved to be a strong tool to ease the strain of member states. as the latest surveys show, a big majority of our citizens have faith in the facility, but 85% also expect transparency and effective control on the use of such funds. now in hungary today we have an authoritarian government that effectively uses european funds to deconstruct rule of law, the finance minister already openly speculates on leaving the eu if finances are withheld, while a two-thirds majority of hungarian citizens are pro-european. these are the desperate cries of a crumbling regime. ms von der leyen, i listened carefully to your nice words on european values, but also heard the gobbledygook on safeguarding them. you have a clear mandate. you have an instrument, the rule of law mechanism, which is effective as of 1 january. please use it.
madam president, given the abundance of challenges that our societies face in the age of globalisation, spying, eavesdropping and surveillance are legitimate tools to safeguard public security. the real question is, and this distinguishes a democracy from an autocracy, whether the process is transparent and control is exercised over those implementing it. in a democracy, such an instrument is ordered by a court or a government, with a specific time limit, in the case of specific judicial procedures or matters of national security, and strictly under the control of parliament or a designated committee. in hungary, the absence of all these conditions indicates a serious departure from the democratic norms by the orbán government that is ready to use such illegitimate means against its political opponents, journalists or activists. basically, anyone who threatens its grip on power. just one more reason why hungary urgently needs a change of government next april.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in the spring of 2022, hungary will hold parliamentary elections. the stakes are high in these elections, because despite all the anti-democratic measures of the hungarian ruling party, there is a real chance that viktor orbán will be replaced. it is no coincidence that the hungarian government was the only one in the european union to use the pegasus spyware at the state level. and not just anyways: in front of their own citizens, journalists, students, lawyers, opposition politicians have had their phones hacked and tapped. in comparison, we only deal with this dark matter here in the european parliament in one-minute speeches. this is totally unacceptable, because what is this but a trampling on european values, democracy and the rule of law! that is why i propose the establishment of an independent european commission of inquiry and the hearing and prosecution of viktor orbán by the european parliament. it is time for europe to finally stop and prevent further destruction of the rule of law.
commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first express my sympathy for the victims in cuba and say that yes, solidarity must not be confined to the national borders of a state or the european union, solidarity must not be political in nature. but we have to look at what we, the european union, could do about what is happening in latin america, in cuba - here is this resolution, which came after another resolution on june 10, 2021. of course, i agree with the things that are said in the text of the resolution. the problem is that it does not end with some means and measures that we could take, which we have, after all, under the statute of the european union, as possibilities for intervention. i will never agree to make this embargo on a particular state and citizens suffer - in addition to the bad things done by dictatorial governments in that state - suffer through this trade embargo. that's why we need to think about how we do a political negotiation, as far as the statute allows, and help the citizens of cuba. i would not want to have a double standard and i think this resolution is unprepared, i think we should have discussed the situation in all the latin american countries and already have solutions, and then make resolutions, because it does not help us to come up with resolution after resolution without having concrete measures. i think the same thing should be done within the european union, because unfortunately we have violations of the rule of law in the member states of the european union as well.
member of the commission, on behalf ofthe vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me reply to honourable members’ interventions on behalf of the commission and replacing high representative / vice-president borrell. the protests of 11 july, with the participation of thousands, were the largest seen in cuba for over 25 years. they reflect legitimate grievances about the lack of food, medicines, water and power. the covid epidemic has severely impacted a cuban economy already in dire need of structural reforms. but, apart from economic reasons, there was also a political dimension even though opposition groups became involved only after the initial wave of people protesting. citizens were demanding freedom of expression, freedom of the press, increased civil and political rights, and democracy. the eu has unequivocally supported the right of cuban citizens to express their views and demand change, both physically and online. we are very concerned about the repression of these protests and the arrests of protesters and journalists. we call on the authorities to respect human rights, to respect universal freedoms, to release arbitrarily detained prisoners and to engage in inclusive dialogue on the grievances of its citizens. we are also concerned about the effects of the new cyber—legislation on human rights. it’s not easy to find a solution to the current situation, but what is clear is that thorough economic reforms are required. as indicated by the declaration by high representative / vice-president borrell on behalf of the european union, the eu stands ready to support all efforts to improve the living conditions of cubans in the context of our partnership under the eu—cuba political dialogue and cooperation agreement. it’s our belief that we need to continue to talk to each other. our previous policy, the common position of 1996, did not reap results. some elements for solutions are there. last summer, havana outlined further steps towards market liberalisation. the eu has consistently offered to support the reforms. we are already implementing cooperation programmes in economic reforms, renewable energy, environment, climate change and sustainable agriculture. in the future, we stand ready to pursue this and also to work on promoting citizens’ rights in areas such as administrative decentralisation, transparency in the functioning of public institutions, promoting non-discrimination or addressing gender violence. we will also continue to apply our policy of constructive engagement, demanding full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and promoting and supporting economic reforms.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'all that glitters is not gold'. that's the best way to describe the united arab emirates. in fact, behind the image of an enlightened, progressive, tolerant and rights-respecting ruling class, there is an illiberal regime. ahmed mansoor, an engineer, poet, father of four, is only the most prominent victim of the emirati repressive regime, which sees many other activists and dissidents imprisoned in inhumane conditions, in abomination and without due process. abu dhabi and dubai are not just trampling on human rights: the pegasus scandal is a well-known example of the interference and attempts to undermine democracy in the arab muslim countries and especially in europe. we have seen this in egypt, syria, sudan and not least in tunisia, not to mention their direct involvement in the wars in libya and yemen, where they are co-responsible with saudi arabia for war crimes. how do we respond to all this? the human rights situation in the uae is further proof that the eu's system of high-level human rights dialogue is in deep trouble, as it is caught between the need to enforce rights and the political realism of business. and of course the countries with which the eu is in dialogue are taking advantage of this contradiction, using it as a fig leaf. if the european union is to be credible in promoting human rights in the world, it must, on the one hand, implement the principle of greater conditionality and, on the other, activate the mechanism of targeted sanctions that it has recently acquired. in the specific case of the uae, this should result in an arms embargo, the suspension of the schengen visa facilitation system, sanctions against criminals involved in the arrest of mansoor and the crimes committed in yemen, starting with general ahmed nasser al raisi, who is running for the presidency of interpol, for which the eu is the main funder. this would be a way of reacting, a way of representing an eu which is able to respond to the issue of human rights without looking at the interlocutors in the face, without being self-conscious and without being 'but'. now, this is the choice that i think we should all make together, to affirm a principle: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on human rights in the european union.
author. – madam president, nelson mandela once famously said that courage is not the absence of fear but the triumph over it, and ahmed mansoor and the handful of human rights defenders in the united arab emirates (uae) found a way, every single day, to conquer fear, knowing full well that retaliation could be imminent. every day they devoted their lives to ensuring that fundamental rights and democratic freedoms take precedence in the uae. but the emirate regime could not conquer its own fear of mr mansoor, sentencing him to a decade of solitary confinement. his appalling treatment must not go unanswered. his tragic story can be an inspiration for all of us. universal values that we all take for granted remain such a distant dream for far too many societies. this house will never be silent in the face of such grave injustices. let me be very clear: those responsible for the atrocities against emirati activists will be included on our own human rights sanctions list – not even the army of paid uae lobbyists will stop us from doing that. this is what europe needs to do. we must start using the instruments we have in our foreign policy toolkit in order to shape the world we live in much more efficiently, because we can do that. we have the power to do that. and sanctions are only one part of the equation. we need to ensure that eu member states will never supply authoritarian regimes with surveillance technology that can be used to oppress their own citizens. because, colleagues, our duty to step up for those who fight for freedom cannot be confined to our internal borders.
in writing. the fight against the coronavirus has shown that the importance of 'time' has never been more important. the latest proposal from the european commission, the european emergency response authority (hera) starting in early 2022, whose primary task will be to ensure the availability of tools related to cross-border health emergencies, will serve as a model for how the eu can prepare for potential health emergencies such as the coronavirus in the long term. i welcome the commission's plans and believe it is important to create an organisation that is ahead of the curve and anticipates potential health emergencies, and a priority would be close cooperation between the member states' authorities. however, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the tasks and work of hera should not conflict with the tasks of the european centre for disease prevention and control and the european medicines agency as set out in the eu health package. member states have already demonstrated that nation states have been able to act quickly and effectively in the fight against the coronavirus, and i am convinced that the success of hera can only be achieved through the effective and systematic involvement of member states. health is a member state competence and must remain so.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, thank you, commissioner, dear colleagues, one of the most widespread stereotypes about our beloved union, unfortunately, concerns our inability to be an efficient foreign policy actor on the global stage. but this should not be a given. and yes it’s true that our foreign policy toolbox is imperfect. we should not delude ourselves but, colleagues, it’s there. it exists, and it is up to us to use it to its full potential. i don’t know about you, but i’m sick and tired of the eu not being taken seriously as a geopolitical player. projects such as the eu trust funds should finally fill that purpose and meaning. quantifiable results should be determined. implementation has to be monitored rigorously. and above all, this house has to be front and centre in all of these efforts. and this is exactly what i have been calling for in this report. from inception to implementation we shall be at the forefront of planning and scrutinising eu funds and commissioner informing and involving the parliament are two very different things in my opinion and involvement should never be retroactive. the ep has to be an integral part of the whole process from the beginning to the end – no ifs, and no buts. because if we do not take ourselves seriously, then nobody else will. and i am convinced that through changing our approach, we will indeed be able to deliver better results on the ground by advancing our foreign policy interests, and this is for the benefit of our entire union.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. dating, dating, entertainment, navigation are all important aspects of our lives that are determined by very sophisticated algorithms in the online space. but the algorithm cannot distinguish between real and unreal, right and wrong, good and bad, because the algorithm, following the logic of capitalism, sees only profit. if it's for profit, he'll make the election. if it's for profit, he's chaining young people to their phones, not caring that it's ruining their mental health. if it's for profit, it poisons the minds of its users with fake news and conspiracy theories, and ultimately polarizes society. we're now at the point where algorithms are dictating what we read and what we think. and malicious actors are not afraid to take advantage of this and spread personalized fake news, flooding users' various social media platforms. my fellow congressmen, we cannot stand by and watch social media take away community, putting profit and money at the center instead of people. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. it is time to take a tougher stance against those who spread disinformation, whether they are inside or outside europe, individuals or governments, because disinformation is the greatest threat to a united europe today. to a strong europe and above all to a democratic europe.
madam president, please. energy prices have reached historic highs in recent times, with the result that the population of the union is facing extraordinary increases in energy prices. while the commission was watching, the member states were taking action. tax reductions have been implemented in several countries, and in one member state the increase in consumer energy prices could not be implemented at all. this member state is my home country, hungary, where a consistent policy of austerity remains the best tool for keeping consumer prices low. your honour, the faulty policies of the european union have created a shortage of supply in the energy market. in addition, the european commission's locally over-ambitious climate package has added to the gravity of the situation. so now is the time for action! ensure that people and businesses have access to affordable energy at eu level. without it, the eu's energy policy is doomed to complete failure.
madam president, at the end let me make my few remarks. first of all, i guess we should not forget that the energy market is a market. it is heavily regulated but still it is a market, and as a result of that we can see that the demand for electricity has increased unexpectedly but the supply is not reacting appropriately and winter is approaching. that is why the prices are very, very high. according to market data, they should drop down later on, but it does not mean that the situation is not very, very serious. what can we do in the short run, before we increase our supply capacities? first of all, i guess we should fully use our capacities on the gas market, especially in the terms of storage. if they are not sufficient, we should increase them. second, we should improve the capacity assessment on the electricity market and especially pay attention to the situation when we are decommissioning the resources, to be ready to replace them. last but not least, we can consider if the ets market should be added to with some kind of price stabilising mechanism to avoid excessive fluctuation.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for your views. i have listened to your interventions very carefully. this is valuable input for our work. let me assure you that the commission fully agrees with your assessment that we must take the rising energy prices and energy poverty seriously and we must act. as i said earlier, next week the commission will present a toolbox as requested by the member states, and we are looking at all options and ideas on the table. allow me to address some of the specific points that were made during this debate. most of you have called for priority attention to be given to energy-poor and low-income households, and i do agree. but there were already millions of europeans living in energy poverty before the price hike, and more, including middle income households, will be impacted if this situation continues. eu rules give member states several options to shield vulnerable people. they can offer direct income support and make sure that no one is disconnected from the grid and extra fiscal revenues from energy taxation, or eu ets revenues can be used to address the social impact. we assess that member states received in the first nine months of 2021 an additional 10.8 billion in ets revenues compared to the same period in 2020. for the medium term, we have proposed a climate social fund for a more structured response to address the social and the distribution impact on the most vulnerable of the energy transition. we will present by the end of the year a recommendation to provide policy guidance that is needed to ensure that member states adequately address the social and employment consequences of the clean energy transition. some of you raised the issue of the electricity market design and suggested the need for adjustments. there are no taboos, but we should not forget that the eu energy system is the most reliable in the world, and the design of our electricity market there is not the cause of the surge in electricity prices. since we have integrated the market, we have had less blackouts and supply interruptions, and consumer prices have been very stable. there is no alternative market model that would provide lower prices in the current situation. what we see now is prices going up and energy supply being a challenge all over the world. as i said, it could be useful to launch a study on price formation and investment incentives in the electricity market and overall a well-integrated, well-functioning eu electricity market with more competition, more renewables and more energy efficiency, is our best tool to deliver affordable energy to european consumers. coming to the specific eu-level measures. one area we are looking at very closely is gas storage and procurement. while gas storage levels in the eu are increasing, they are still lower than usual at this time of year. joint procurement of gas has been proposed recently by spain, and also suggested by others, but it’s not a new idea and has been discussed before, but complexity and practical obstacles have always outweighed the benefits. similarly, the idea of a joint procurement of emergency gas reserves on a voluntary basis has been proposed, and we assess all of these options to increase preparedness while gas as a transitional fuel is progressively phased out. i know that some of you are concerned about possible manipulation of the eu energy market and these are serious concerns. we are looking into this claim through our competition angles. our initial assessment indicates that russia has been fulfilling its long-term contracts but not providing any additional supply, but the response to any type of speculation and market manipulations is another area where i believe we should assess our options for action. but ultimately the solution is the same. whether it is about prices, security of supply or climate, scaling up local affordable renewable energy is the way forward and i would prefer to be in a position where we are not dependent on foreign fossil fuels. i will share your concerns and suggestions for action with president von der leyen and the college and we will reflect them in our toolbox communication next week. i will present it and discuss it with the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) the following day, so continuing the dialogue we have had just today.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for today’s debate. it’s high time we discuss the surge in energy prices. since the end of 2020, the demand for energy has been boosted by higher demand for residential heating and cooling. a combination of the continued industrial output rebound and rallying eu carbon prices is fostering a switch from coal to gas. as a result, gas demand has increased in 22 eu member states, including the highest consuming countries: for example, in germany by 11%, in the netherlands by 10%, in france by 6% and in italy by 5%, since the beginning of this year. with respect to electricity prices, they have been boosted by such factors as high electricity demand (due to the covid recovery), lower renewable production (partly due to the less favourable weather conditions), surging coal prices, rallying eu carbon prices, and overall low gas storage. this led to much higher spot gas prices at the end of 2020 and the beginning of 2021. while natural gas accounts for only a fifth of eu electricity production, higher gas prices are putting a disproportionate upward pressure on electricity prices, due to the pricing model based on the marginal cost of the most expensive fuel used during times of peak demand. as a result, gas—fired power plants have become price—setting units. another concern mentioned today is that it will be more expensive to build up the gas reserve for the coming winter. according to the european network of transmission system operators for gas (entsog), current eu gas reserves are too low, at only 70% compared to almost 100% of their storage capacity a year ago. they’re definitely raising some worries about the security and adequacy of the gas supply for this winter. – spoštovane poslanke in predsedujoča, spoštovana komisarka. svet se zaveda pomena te tematike, se tudi zahvaljuje za današnjo razpravo. naj pa hkrati tudi povem, da je vprašanje dvigovanja cen energentov eno od pomembnejših vprašanj v času slovenskega predsedstva. kot veste, je bila to tematika na neformalnem svetu za energijo in transport 22. septembra. o tem so razpravljali na svetu za konkurenčnost 28. septembra. včeraj je beseda tekla o tem tudi na neformalnem vrhu eu–zahodni balkan v sloveniji v času slovenskega predsedstva. danes poteka razprava na svetu za okolje. kot smo bili že večkrat opozorjeni, bo evropska komisija 13. oktobra pripravila tako imenovano orodjarno ukrepov, ki jih bodo države članice imele na razpolago za upravljanje s tem tveganjem, hkrati pa bo tudi 21. oziroma 22. oktobra predvidoma potekal vrh na temo dviga cen energentov. kar želim v imenu sveta posebej poudariti, je, da bo pri obravnavi tega vprašanja pomembno, da ne bo zaradi akutnosti problematike prišlo do zmanjšanja naših podnebnih ambicij in da bomo ohranili integriteto našega notranjega trga z energijo. ta tematika bo zelo verjetno dodatno ogrela ali obogatila razpravo na cop 26, kjer slovensko predsedstvo v sodelovanju z evropsko komisijo tudi usklajuje skupno eu-stališče. svet je pripravljen pri razpravi o dvigu cen energentov aktivno sodelovati s parlamentom, da bi poiskali najboljše rešitve, zlasti v okviru prihodnjih pogajanj o svežnju „pripravljeni na 55“.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the people of europe are anxiously awaiting the coming winter. gas and electricity prices are rising steadily. energy poverty was a major concern before the pandemic, and it will become even more so as the pandemic continues and europe is struggling to cope with the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. and this is where urgent solutions are needed at european level, because the situation is very different in the member states. unfortunately, not all eu governments are taking this problem seriously, which means that many people will be pushed further into poverty and unable to pay for their heating and electricity. political solutions are needed to manage this situation. the european commission has so far proposed that member states manage energy prices on their own, through taxation and subsidies for the poorest. but as we see, some countries are taking urgent action and others are not, and this is increasing the divide between the people of the eu. i would very much like to see more activity from the european commission in presenting urgent decisions to the member states on the reduction of vat rates on electricity and gas and to monitor closely whether the member states implement them. colleagues, our people, especially the lowest-income earners, have been hit hard by the pandemic, and we cannot make them poorer. we must do everything we can to ensure that our people do not fall further into energy poverty.
in writing. gas and electricity prices in europe have increased severalfold in recent months. this is a temporary situation, but it highlights that europe is a continent that is energy-poor in terms of fossil fuels and that we are highly dependent on energy. this crisis cannot be handled well by individual member states, and fortunately it does not have to be. the union was created to deal with the problems of scarce resources such as energy. we need to encourage the acceleration of the transition to renewable energy sources. improve energy storage capacity and the energy efficiency of the buildings. the best way to counter russia's energy diplomacy blackmail is through joint procurement. at the same time, we must address the growing problem of energy poverty immediately: neither the eu nor governments can allow europe's poor to have to choose this winter between keeping their families warm or putting food on the table. for a family of four, this can add up to $2,000 to their energy bill. this is why there is an urgent need for a temporary reduction in taxes on energy suppliers throughout europe. the eu and national budgets for the coming year should also allocate resources to provide direct financial assistance to the most deprived and to small businesses whose burden cannot be increased further. the social climate fund should also be increased in terms of the amount of resources it can allocate. it is also necessary to prevent usurers from taking advantage of the vulnerable situation of others.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. to all those who are speaking out and attacking my country, poland, i want to remind you that as a country of solidarity, when this fund was created, we behaved in solidarity and wanted to help countries that could not do it on their own. and these were, and still are, the countries of southern europe. we stood together and wanted to create this fund. not all countries have behaved like this. i won't mention them all, not to break the good mood here, but at least five of them didn't want the fund. it was only after they got some concessions on their behalf that they agreed to set up this fund. secondly, the fund was to serve the rapid reconstruction and building of resilience to future economic crises, the creation of social security systems. we do not understand this obstruction of the commission, which does not accept the plans of poland, hungary, sweden, without giving justified reasons. finally, thirdly, the commission has prepared a comprehensive regulation of over 30 pages, which describes in detail the responsibilities of the member state and the commission itself. we have fulfilled all the obligations of this regulation, letter by letter, everything. we filled it out by mid-july. the commission has not yet said what kind of doubts it has about the polish plan. the commissioner is making some general remarks. commissioner, the commission cannot behave like this. poland, as a sovereign country of 40 million, cannot give in to such blackmail.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. it's rare that a lack of transparency can have such negative results. i would remind you that parliament has specifically set up its working group to monitor national reconstruction plans both at the stage of their approval and at the stage of their implementation. for reasons that are not clear, the two sides in the case of poland are avoiding answers and treating the negotiations as secret. the european commission does not want to tell parliament how the negotiations are going, and it has never wanted any plan, in this case the polish and hungarian one. the commissioner has been talking about transparency since the acceptance. and we'd like to know how the negotiations are going. the polish government won't show its reconstruction plan to its parliament. i don't want to show the poles what negotiations are about. what's going on, commissioner? you can hear me. in my country we hear from government representatives and also from colleagues here today that the commission is in full conflict with the polish government, that the commission is blackmailing, that the commission is waging a hybrid war with poland. we heard earlier today that he's behaving like a terrorist. what does the commission say? what does the commission say? and what do we have to say as members of the european parliament, who would like to know what the commission has demanded on the basis of the rules and what the polish government's response is. we'd like to know. we'd like to know so we can explain to the people of poland what this is all about. especially since we think that rule of law issues are absolutely crucial, but we really need to know the specifics.
i am glad to see that almost all member states are using the emergency funds to deal with the shocks of the global pandemic. almost all countries, because not the netherlands, together with bulgaria. we are the only country that has not yet submitted a national plan. our prime minister rutte would rather say no to reforms and a good recovery plan than to tackle the corona crisis and make good policies for the people. but that's beside the point, because today i want to emphasize that the coronavirus crisis has had a huge impact, on our health, of course, but also on the wallets of many, many people. houses became more expensive and many people lost their jobs during the crisis. and of course, the fact that energy prices are going through the roof today is not helping either. that's why we need more good, quality jobs. we need better, affordable access to health care and education for everyone. i therefore believe it is crucial that the commission now also uses social indicators to measure and assess the social impact of all these recovery plans. just transition is more than just meeting green and digital goals. it's also worrying that everyone can come.
mr president, in july the commission decided to demand extra guarantees from hungary and poland in the fields of judicial independence and anti-corruption, and the tools and the leverage were given to us finally by the recovery fund’s clear regulation. but then several months passed, and frankly, we should be seeing results by now, particularly because both sides are very happily reporting that a deal is very close. so my question to all of you is: did we all miss something? did we miss the major reforms, did we miss the breakthroughs? did the hungarian top prosecutor stop being a party loyalist in the meantime? or did the polish government stop the blatant attacks on the judiciary? well, of course we do not see these results. all we see is flip-flopping and the commission’s credibility taking yet another hit. and frankly, by this time, i think the autocrats in poland and hungary do not even take all of this seriously. because what mr orbán and mr kaczyński see – and all other aspiring autocrats – is that they can build a kleptocracy. they can destroy judicial independence. they can cross red line after red line, and after a few months of untransparent deal-making, money will start flowing eventually. and this is not president von der leyen’s credibility problem. this is a problem for all of us, because the commission is the guardian of our treaties and if the guardian is not credible, our treaties are not credible either. the rule of law crisis is an existential threat for our whole union. it’s time for us to realise this – and appeasement is not the answer. and this house will not let up until the commission finally understands this.
member of the commission. – mr president, today i warmly welcome on behalf of the commission the agreement for the eu asylum agency. i know that commissioner johansson would have very much liked to be here to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, elena yoncheva, the shadow rapporteurs, and of course the council for this success. you show that europe can be united on migration. you show that europe can find compromises on migration and asylum. a strong eu asylum agency is a key pillar of an efficient common european asylum system. the european asylum agency will bring four main benefits. it will assist member states in handling asylum challenges and fulfilling their protection obligations. it will create a common space for protection in the eu based on converged asylum procedures and reception standards to seal cracks in the system and prevent unauthorised movement across our member states. it will facilitate resettlement and other legal pathways for people in need of protection and, it will rebuild and consolidate the mutual trust between member states, and also to an effective return policy by assisting with a quick identification of those whose claims we can now more easily identify as unwarranted. the agency has been working with an outdated mandate for years now. with the new mandate the agency will now be able to provide all the operational and technical assistance member states need to better manage migration and respond to the complex asylum challenges. the new regulation provides for a considerably wider range of support activities from the beginning to the end of the procedure for international protection. the agency will now be able to better assist member states to register applications for international protection and with their examination and with the identification of vulnerabilities and special needs. the triggering of operational and technical assistance will be more efficient, with concrete and shorter deadlines for each step of the procedure. the shortage of experts deployed as part of the asylum support teams has been addressed. the agency will be able to use member states’ experts and external experts in addition to its own staff. an asylum reserve pool of 500 experts will be set up with the agreed national contributions to be used by the agency in situations of disproportionate pressure and to ensure greater convergence and address disparities in the assessment of applications the agency will be able to coordinate efforts among member states to develop common analysis on the situation in the third countries of origin and guidance to assist member states in the assessment of applications for international protection. a fundamental rights officer will ensure that the agency respects fundamental rights in all of its activities, implements the agency’s fundamental rights strategy and handles the agency’s complaints mechanism. the monitoring mechanism is a central part of the commission proposal. its proposal to identify possible shortcomings in the asylum and reception systems of member states, assess their preparedness to manage situations of disproportionate pressure and assist them in enhancing the efficiency of their asylum and reception systems. the commission welcomes that this compromise fully preserves the provisions concerning the monitoring mechanism. the content of these provisions will not be reopened. it is only their application that has been postponed, but the preparations for implementation will start immediately. this political agreement on the eu asylum agency is another important step forward in this pact. it shows that we, the parliament, the council and the commission, can move forward on the pact. let this agreement inspire us to work together in the same spirit of pragmatism and cooperation on all proposals under the pact.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me start by congratulating the rapporteur and the shadows for this excellent result. and there are two reasons mainly why i’m very happy with this agreement. first of all, because 10 years after its creation, the european asylum support office (easo) will now finally become the full-fledged eu agency for asylum that it needs to be. and i think the migration crisis was a watershed moment for the agency. it had to step up and prove its added value to the member states through expert support on the ground, through training, through information provision, through its presence in the hotspots. it did excellent work with limited means, and now the agency will enter a new chapter. more competences to support the member states with asylum procedures, an improved ability to set and guard high quality standards, improved monitoring and reporting capabilities and, very important, the creation of the pool of specialists that will be directly deployable. because with this pool of 500 experts, the eu can now act decisively when a member state is in need, instead of offering a haphazard response. and this is very important, especially in situations like the one we see unfolding at our eastern borders. already now, with the years of experience easo has gained, they were able to conclude an operational plan with lithuania to support them, with procedures, reception conditions and registration, and the new agency will be even better equipped to deal with such crisis situations. the second reason i’m pleased with this result, however, is because we finally see some momentum in our discussions on the future of european asylum and migration policy, not in the least thanks to a number of member states that showed a great sense of responsibility and willingness to compromise. and it shows that we can find european solutions if we try hard enough, and the commissioner also said this. so let’s try harder, let’s look at what other individual files of our asylum package we can move forward on to keep this momentum going, instead of forcing ourselves to move at the pace of the slowest and most difficult negotiations. it’s a great result, but there’s a lot still to do. so let’s get to it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, this european parliament and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i chair, have fully exercised their responsibility in legislating the common european asylum system in all its parts, including this regulation on the european union asylum agency, with our rapporteur, elena yoncheva, at the head. we see, again, how an embryonic organism grows exponentially in a short time. the european asylum support office, created in 2011, started with just 60 staff and 10 million euros, but now has more than 500 staff and a budget of 142 million euros. it carries out operations which now include up to 1 500 staff, who cooperate in the operations of the european asylum support office, and has supported the member states in the exchange of good practices and training; 43 000 people have followed the specialised courses to fully implement the common european asylum system. and now we have finally adopted a regulation that projects the european union asylum agency into the future, with a binding mandate on fundamental rights and strengthens its capacity to monitor the common european asylum system and its implementation by the member states. we must thank the efforts of those states which have vulnerable borders to the south: spain, italy, malta, cyprus, greece; the mediterranean group which has made it possible to unblock the so-called 'package approach' which linked all the pieces of legislation of the common european asylum system in order to finally adopt this new regulation. but i want to send a message of commitment on fundamental rights, because it is a fundamental aspect of the common european asylum system. it is not just frontex, the border guard, but also easo that must monitor fundamental rights in the full implementation of the project of a common european asylum system.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, climate change, extreme poverty, growing inequalities, the rise of illiberal and authoritarian regimes: these are challenges we are all facing in the 21st century. these challenges are different in nature, yet they share the same consequence: if left unaddressed, they all lead to the mass migration of populations. as i address you today, thousands of refugee families are fleeing their homes with hopes for a better future. still, europe stands divided on how to treat these people. for six long years, we haven’t been able to come to terms with our broken migration policies. yet, in the midst of all these debates, there is something we can all agree on: we need a strong european asylum agency which fulfils at least three important criteria. first, it must ensure that europe is at the forefront of upholding human rights within and at its borders. second, it must be able to provide operational and technical support to the member states in need. third, it must serve as a bridge between member states whose ideas might differ on asylum management. the proposal tabled achieves these objectives as it transforms the european asylum support office (easo) into a fully-fledged agency. dear colleagues, it is now up to us to support this change and make sure that we will not see another refugee crisis. we are living in uncertain times, but we can take back the initiative. to do so, we need a strong and united europe with strong and clear solutions. this proposal is such a solution. hence, i would like to express my gratitude for the flexibility of all the groups involved and for the great cooperation among the negotiating team and the institutions to make this much-needed agreement happen.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. last year, without a feasibility study, the european commission put forward the 'from the soil to the table' strategy as one of the main measures of the european green deal. my dear officer. i have only one question in this connection: when will we stop destroying european food production, our farmers and our countryside with spectacular and unrealistic plans? this strategy would place such a heavy burden on agricultural operators that many would leave their businesses, food prices would skyrocket, and products entering the union markets would not even comply with the current rules. i would like to draw attention to a study that has been kept secret by the commission but has been made public in recent days, which already highlights the negative effects of the strategy. my fellow members of parliament! it's time to see clearly.
mr president, madam president of the commission, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the judgment of the polish constitutional court is a very serious and unprecedented precedent which cannot be left without consequences and which risks seriously pushing poland out of the european union. to question the primacy of union law is to fail to recognise one of the founding principles of the european institutions, the principle that all european citizens can enjoy the same rights wherever they live. the polish court's decision is just the latest affront in the timeline. first the attack on the independence of the judiciary, then the laws against freedom of information, women's rights and the lgbt community. we want a union which includes poland, but the polish government must know that this parliament is not prepared to override respect for the rule of law and respect for the fundamental rights of individuals, starting with those of polish citizens. europe is not a marriage of convenience for the sake of generous european funds, but a community of destiny, based on shared values and principles which cannot fail unless the common european project itself is destroyed. and we will not allow that, not only for the european citizens, but also for the polish citizens who have demonstrated.
mr president, the european union was founded on the idea that the nations of europe share a common fate in history. after centuries of meaningless wars, the citizens of europe sent a clear message to their leaders: instead of hatred which divides, we need to stand united and work together so that we can all prosper. still, there are autocrats left in europe who reject this message and defy the will of the people. we all know them. to cement their powers, the leaders of poland and hungary wage an immoral war on europe, defying laws of the union and entertaining the idea of leaving it. and where does this lead us? here we are in the 21st century, facing the greatest ecological crisis in the history of mankind, and europe is busy with petty power plays orchestrated by self—serving politicians. let us be clear, we need to put an end to this madness, and we need to use every tool in our power to strengthen europe. because together we stand, divided we fall.
mr president, we are speaking today in the context of a hierarchical dialogue between the european institutions and the institutions of the member states. but for me, dialogue is always between equal partners. i also advocate a balanced dialogue between courts. i would find it appropriate for the court of justice to also consult, for example, national constitutional courts when it comes to national identity or the national constitution. union law has priority but not absolute primacy. the founding treaties do not provide for such primacy. you see a real problem, but several national constitutional courts have already ruled to define limits to the primacy and priority application of eu law. this is what the polish constitutional court has just done. since this is a legal debate, i would advise against making it a political debate as well. if national constitutional institutions were respected rather than threatened by the european institutions, all these interrelated issues could finally be resolved, not by force, but by common sense.
in writing. due to increasing digitalisation and technological dependence, semiconductors have become a profitable, valuable and sought-after product. one unforeseen consequence of the coronavirus pandemic is the emergence of a global shortage of these semiconductors, affecting a wide range of sectors from consumer electronics to automotive. the global chip shortage will continue to have a negative impact on the european supply chain in 2022: we can see that the eu's capacity is extremely limited and that the largest chip producers are almost without exception from the asian region. i welcome the european commission's initiative to create a semiconductor legislation aimed at creating a chip manufacturing system that operates within the borders of the union. i consider it important that european chip production primarily serves the needs of the internal market. unfortunately, we must not forget that it is not enough to create an eu law for production, but raw materials are needed. and the rare earth metals that are needed to make chips are found in asia. i hope that the european commission will take the scarcity of raw materials into account when it prepares its draft for 2022.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, 10 years after the arab spring, tunisia continues to face serious political security and economic challenges. the country is greatly affected by political instability and the health crisis. with the decision to suspend the assembly and the constitution, president saied has struck an even stronger blow on tunisian democracy and now holds almost all executive, legislative and judicial powers. in this growing unrest, which could lead to violent civil confrontations, we call today on tunisian president kais saied to enter into a peaceful dialogue with the country’s major political parties and civil society representatives to find a way out of the political crisis in the country. in parallel, the eu institutions and the member states should maintain their support for the democratic aspirations of the tunisian people.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, tunisia, a friendly country, is being hit hard by countless crises. first, there is the covid crisis, which has left most health institutions bleeding, an economic and social crisis - not enough has been said about it - that is undermining the youth, which is plaguing unemployment and poverty, but also a political and institutional crisis, which is the symptom of a blocked system, eaten by corruption, a system that angers the majority of tunisians. we have a new government, headed by a woman, as has been said, mrs najla bouden romdhane. it's a first step, but it can only be a first step. because, of course, the concentration of power in the hands of one man, even if he is supported by the majority of the population, is never healthy, it is never good. and i think that tunisia, obviously, needs a new electoral process. and for that, the tunisians, the tunisian people, have our trust, they have our friendship because we know the strength of the living forces of tunisian society: the ngos, the feminist movements, the ugtt union, which has played a primary role for tunisia, to lead it towards civil peace and political renewal. to overcome these crises, tunisia and the tunisian people can count on the unwavering support of the european parliament, the union agencies, the group for the support of democracy and electoral coordination. in short, all this makes us want to help tunisia today, but especially not to sanction it. helping this country also means increasing economic aid, increasing social aid. especially not to punish, but to help the tunisian people who need it so much. because our bond is unbreakable. it has been recalled and must never be forgotten in this parliament.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the appointment of a new government with najla bouden, the first woman to hold the post of prime minister in the history of any country in the arab world, should be wonderful news, but like many of you, i can only be concerned, concerned that the tunisian parliament remains frozen to this day and will not be able to express a vote of confidence. who will then monitor the legitimacy of the decrees issued by the president? the constitutional court was never established, despite all our recommendations. we are well aware of the very serious health, economic and social situation in tunisia, the persistent political difficulties and the corruption. i therefore ask the commission and the high representative, as a sincere and affectionate friend of the tunisian people, to continue our cooperation and support, but i also make a heartfelt appeal to president saïed to allow the restoration of parliament and the establishment of the constitutional court, because the logic of the emergency cannot justify the concentration of all state powers in the hands of one person for an indefinite period, even with the best intentions, without the presence of constitutional checks and balances. the light of tunisia must continue to shine. we europeans must be prepared to do our part, but we must also remember with sincere friendship and respect that the noblest end cannot justify the means in all cases. long live the tunisian democracy!
madam president, the democratic transition in tunisia is one of the few successes of the arab spring. it is also a neighbour and an advanced partner of the union, but in the last decade tunisians have given priority to political change and have not carried out economic and social reforms: the economy and unemployment have only worsened in recent years, and tunisia is now experiencing a serious political, economic and social crisis, with the discrediting of political forces and many institutions. the european union cannot do without this neighbour. we have a commitment to the stability and freedom of tunisians, but our democratic values include multiparty system and the division of powers. i don't know if the high representative is listening or just to mr castaldo, who has already consumed his time. the solution to tunisia's problems is not to return to the undemocratic formulae of the past, but to restore constitutional normality as soon as possible: the president and the new government must immediately launch a broad inclusive dialogue with the political and social forces and civil society to agree on a broad process of political, economic and social reforms. it is not just about politics, economic reform is also urgent. the european union must accompany and support tunisia, this important neighbour, in this ambitious process of change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial juncture in the democratic life of tunisia. in the face of the health, social, economic and financial damage of the long pandemic, the risks of a halt to the democratic process have increased dramatically. this is why it is not the time to leave it alone and its young and fragile democratic institutions unprotected. it is time to act politically and diplomatically, as vice-president and high representative borrell did when he went to tunisia in recent days, to support health, economic and financial efforts in tunisian society. we know the risks president saïed is taking. concentrating all power in one's own hands, suspending the activities of parliament must necessarily be temporary measures, capable of opening a democratic perspective to the country. the first sign is certainly the news of the birth of the new government led by women, as has happened in recent weeks. we believe that we must be fully present as the european union. the final signal from the government is not enough, but it is necessary to open a second phase. that 's what we need to work on . a second phase of the tunisian democratic republic, after the 2011 revolution and the 2014 constitution. the ills and defects of democracy are not cured by its annulment: i think that is the message we must send to the citizens and the tunisian people.
madam president, president saied’s decisions since july have shaken the democratic foundations of tunisia, the country where the arab spring was born. it isn’t clear yet whether these highly controversial decisions will end up being a parenthesis in tunisia’s democratic journey or represent a turn for the worse. fighting corruption or pushing for reforms to improve the socioeconomic situation are commendable goals. what is not commendable is that this becomes the excuse to close the parliament, concentrate powers around the president and govern by decree. the apparent popular support for the president is also not a reason to justify all this. we welcome the designation of the new prime minister, the first woman to lead a government in the arab world, as a positive step, but we must remember that the powers of her executive remain very limited. president saied has yet to present a clear roadmap towards the full restoration of the constitutional and democratic order, including the parliament. we would have liked to see more pressure from the european union in this sense. the democratic aspirations of the tunisian people and the defence of fundamental freedoms deserve a bolder european response.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the tunisian people decided in 2011 to establish a democratic regime through a revolution that the whole world admired. the european union supported him in this choice. ten years later, the promises of the revolution have not been fulfilled. tunisia's economic and social situation has deteriorated sharply and huge demonstrations have denounced endemic corruption. i understand that in the face of this chaos, president sayed has decided to react. elected with more than 72% of the vote, he has the democratic legitimacy to do so. from a european perspective, the means he used are certainly surprising: seizure of full powers on 25 july, suspension of the constitution on 22 september. but i want to believe that president saïd's objective is, as he says, to establish a democracy free of corruption as soon as possible. and i have no doubt that a truly democratic political agenda will be unveiled soon with the announcement of the drafting of a new constitution and then the holding of elections. confident in the capacity of the tunisian people to take their destiny into their own hands and respectful of their sovereignty, i wish them good luck and assure them of my friendship and support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr borrell, the only problem you have with the tunisian crisis is that of respect for the rule of law. it is obvious, but europe's geopolitical interest in tunisia as a key partner in controlling, for example, the migration flows - which in recent months have brought 50,000 illegal immigrants to italy alone - or the sicilian channel, through which much of the world's maritime trade passes, cannot be limited to this. it is precisely this lack of commitment on the part of the eu in foreign policy that has allowed foreign powers to steal our privileged partnership with the mediterranean countries, to get their hands on energy resources, trade and migration routes, to blackmail us. this is what happened in libya, and this is what is likely to happen in tunisia if the eu continues to sit in the corner and act as a helpless voyeur. we cannot allow tunisia and libya to fall under the influence of powers that are hostile to us today, and the only way to do that is to give priority to involving these countries in a shared geopolitical agenda, otherwise our southern border will be engulfed in chaos and the mediterranean, the cradle of european civilisation, will become our tomb.
madam president, tunisia is a close partner of the european union. we have close and long-standing relations in a matter of trade and security. the eu has reaffirmed its commitment to the country and the wider region with the recent renewed agenda for cooperation with our southern neighbourhood. however, i am deeply concerned about the latest political developments in tunisia. the situation endangers the respect for citizens’ human rights and does not deserve the attempts to tackle the current economic challenges and to lead the country through the impacts of the covid-19 crisis. in order to comply with the rule of law, it is crucial to ensure well-functioning and legitimate public institutions. i call on the political leaders in tunisia to act in respect of the constitutional principles and resume the parliamentary activity as soon as possible with adherence to all democratic standards. tunisian people deserve that.
madam president, i welcome this debate as we all followed with great concern recent events when president saied dismissed the prime minister and suspended the parliament in july. even though he appointed a new prime minister and government, in practice his power abuse and subordination of the constitution should lead to political reaction from our side. democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are fundamental in order to achieve sustainable and truly inclusive economic growth and prosperity in tunisia. tunisia urgently needs a stable government, legitimised by democratic accountability, in order to reinitiate talks with the international monetary fund over the disbursement of the much—needed loan, necessary to relaunch the economy of the country. in that sense, particular attention should be focused on the transparent use of eu assistance, also within the new investment package. finally, as the geopolitical actor we believe we are, we should assist tunisia to return to a democratic path.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president thank you, thank you honourable members. thank you for your contributions, which certainly underline the importance that tunisia has for us, for the european union. i can only repeat what i already said to president saied when i talked with him. it’s important to have a well-defined schedule to go back to the constitutional order. je vais vous dire en français exactement ce que je lui ai dit: « un ordre constitutionnel basé sur la séparation des pouvoirs, le respect de l’état de droit, de la démocratie parlementaire, la sauvegarde des libertés fondamentales et un dialogue permanent et inclusif, qui tienne compte de la volonté et des aspirations du peuple tunisien. »and i also saidque l’engagement de l’union européenne à soutenir le peuple tunisien ne fait aucun doute, mais qu’il dépendra d’actions et de mesures concrètes prises par les autorités tunisiennes, et que nous déterminerons comment accompagner au mieux le pays sur le chemin de la pleine démocratie, de la stabilité et de la prospérité de l’union. »let me reiterate that. our support will be anchored in our democratic values, which are the same that inspired the judicial revolution of 2018, and we will base our actions not on statements, but on the concrete actions and steps taken by the tunisian authorities. so let’s follow the situation closely and act accordingly with their acts.
in writing. tunisia is a case of school of chronic instability that succeeded the famous arab spring, which saw the fall of the regime of president ben ali, without leading to any improvement in economic or living conditions - which was the main demand of the 2010/2011 protests. it would therefore seem absurd to destabilise president saïd, who, in the face of a difficult economic and health situation, is also trying to maintain his position in the face of the attacks of the islamist parties. the commission's programme of reforms is to be applauded, particularly in the context of the vigorous fight against corruption. the resumption of phosphate production, a pillar of the tunisian economy, also offers hope for a tangible recovery for the country. in this context, the president's decision to invoke article 80 of the tunisian constitution may be questionable, but it cannot obscure this record, nor its undeniable popular support. the european union must not, therefore, contribute by unwise interference to the weakening of a country that is a guarantor of stability in a region beset by multiple tensions, from the libyan crisis to the sahel conflict, and, moreover, at the heart of the current migration crisis.
executive vice—president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i welcome this timely report and the opportunity to discuss our engagement with taiwan. the situation has evolved since the last debate on the cross—strait relations in 2019. as reflected in your report, the tensions in the taiwan strait have increased. china has stepped up its pressure on taiwan and its military presence in the strait. we have seen repeated incursions of chinese planes across the median line and in taiwan’s air defence identification zone. these displays of force may have a direct impact on european security and prosperity. we europeans have an interest in preserving the status quo in the taiwan strait. the eu encourages everyone to engage in dialogue and avoid any unilateral actions that may increase tensions around the strait. this is key for the peace and stability of the region and for the eu’s interests. we will continue voicing our concerns, in our contact with china and publicly, and step up coordination with like—minded partners such as the g7. as the report says, the eu has an interest in enhancing relations and cooperation with taiwan within the framework of its one—china policy. taiwan is a like—minded partner, and the eu will continue supporting its system of governance, based on democracy, the rule of law and human rights, its open society and market economy. the eu will also continue strengthening people—to—people relations. in recent years, exchanges and cooperation with taiwan have intensified. today, they cover a broad range of areas also identified in your report –from human rights, trade and economic issues to industrial and digital policies, disinformation and connectivity. the eu is the largest foreign investor in taiwan and is attracting taiwanese investors through initiatives such as the european investment forum held in taipei. last year, taiwan’s investment to the eu doubled. the eu is realist and pragmatic. we want to further engage in respect of the eu’s one-china policy. the eu indo—pacific strategy is offering an excellent platform to broaden cooperation. trade and investment relationships with this important partner and technological leader will be deepened. the eu takes note of the european parliament’s views on how this could be pursued. we want to build upon the strong economic links that already exist and to further develop existing dialogues, such as the industrial policy dialogue or the digital dialogue on economy. the european union is currently assessing how to engage more closely to address new challenges, focusing on supply chain vulnerabilities and critical value chains, and wants to cooperate on strategic sectors like semiconductors, the ‘new oil’, as i think many call it, indispensable for the european industrial development and digital transition. we hope to see taiwan as an important partner to achieve the goals of the european chips act. while enhancing ties with taiwan, the eu also has to address china’s assertiveness and attempts to intimidate taiwan’s like—minded partners. as pointed out in the report, lithuania and all member states find themselves coerced for taking decisions that china finds offensive. well, they need support and they need our solidarity. the european union will continue to push back these attempts and adopt appropriate tools, such as the anti—coercion instrument currently under preparation. i appreciate this debate. i appreciate your recommendations. they reflect our common interest in seeking closer cooperation with taiwan, where our values and our interests converge.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, first of all, my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for the cooperative approach he has taken. there is an island off the coast of mainland china that organises a chinese society in a democratic and prosperous way and is therefore, as such, a provocation for the communist one-party state. i welcome this first report on the eu-taiwan relations in which we explore the potential of extending and deepening relations with this island. we are not crossing red lines. to the contrary, we want to preserve the status quo across the taiwan strait and demand that no unilateral steps be taken and certainly no violent steps from mainland china. in return, we should not unilaterally change the status by recognising taiwan diplomatically, but an acronym ebfdr, everything but formal diplomatic recognition, should encompass a bilateral investment agreement. we should, for instance, have an interest to secure the supply of semiconductors from taiwan and facilitate taiwanese investment in this field in the eu. so i ask the commission to push the member states in this regard and be it with the argument that we have all reason to apply it with the democratic part of the chinese society, when we have already concluded it with the dictator part. it is also in our interest to see taiwan as an observer in relevant international organisations such as the world health organization, or the international civil aviation organization, and it is good to see that taiwan is a stable factor when we look at our indo-pacific strategy. we can also learn a lot from how taiwan has built up resilience against chinese cyber war activities and in that regard i welcome the visit of our inge committee next week in taiwan.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i said this before and i will say it again: china is a bully state. millions of brutally oppressed people in xinjiang and tibet stand as clear proof of this. and yet more and more in hong kong and taiwan live in constant fear of china, a country with zero regard for the concept of democratic self—determination. they’re all looking at us for solutions. we must deliver and we must deliver fast. there is absolutely no time to wait until the us comes up with a strategy. europe must lead a global coalition to ensure taiwan’s representation in multilateral organisations while calling on china to immediately end the military show of force in the taiwan strait. you might think that this issue is too far away, but beijing’s increasing aggression is very much our business, and china knows this very much. this is why they cultivate trojan horses like the orbán government. orbán’s decision to veto an eu statement criticising china’s crackdown on pro—democracy protesters in hong kong was not a one off. but we can also turn their weapons against them. so, let’s use this as motivation to call for the abolishment of unanimous voting on foreign policy decisions in the council. because let’s not forget, china is our strategic rival. if taiwan is destabilised, we risk losing one of our closest allies in the region and if we are to improve our geopolitical might, this is just about the biggest mistake we can make.
mr. president, i have to ask you... two years ago, commissioner timmermans was given the mandate to achieve the eu's climate goals in a fair and balanced way. the reality, however, is quite different. in preparation for the climate summit in glasgow, we can see that europe is facing a crisis of recession and energy, and the eu's responsibility is clear. my fellow members of parliament! in many member states, european citizens have become completely dependent on energy suppliers, as have businesses. and now the european commission wants to tax car and homeowners, using the climate protection as a cover for rising real estate prices. i ask the commission to stop putting climate policy at the expense of citizens and to fulfil its obligation to ensure that our businesses remain competitive during the green transition. in the shadow of the climate summit, we must not leave anyone behind as we move towards the eu's green ambitions.
mr president, at the convergence of a health, economic and climate crisis, we are presented with a unique opportunity to set our societies on a sustainable course. the ambitious goals set out in the european green deal can be an instrument for transition to a new green growth model that mobilises green investment to create new industries, jobs to dampen the social tensions created by transition, and a cleaner environment for all. but there are preconditions for success that need to be addressed in glasgow. net-zero emissions by 2050 and transformation of our economies are a collective target, rather than one that commits each and every member state to net-zero emissions. we need guarantees and sanctions to make it a credible commitment of all those involved. second, bring the usa, china, but also the developing world, on board with similarly ambitious targets as the eu’s. finally, the adoption of the paris agreement rulebook to set the fight against climate change into operation.
mr president, the lukashenko regime is a shame to europe. on the eu’s doorstep, civilians are brutally tortured and terrorised. courageous democrats like maria kolesnikova, siarhei tsikhanouski and so many others are serving decades-long prison sentences. and what we see right now on the eu-belarus border makes it crystal clear that terror and aggression never stays within a country’s borders. lukashenko’s terror against the belarusians is morphing into a hybrid war against the eu. first, he hijacked a civilian aircraft, and what we see now is state-sponsored human trafficking, weaponised migration – a truly despicable exploitation of human suffering. we need urgent sanctions. we need a common eu response, a forceful frontex engagement in poland. this is not the time to bicker about eu competences. let’s not delude ourselves, nothing in minsk happens without the approval of moscow, and the eu’s far right cosying up to putin is a threat to our security, so are the trojan horses, like viktor orbán, who are vetoing common positions. let’s stand up for democracy in belarus, because a democratic belarus is the long-term guarantee of the eu’s safety.
mr. president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i consider it important that the eu and the us establish regular cooperation and i welcome the fact that the eu-us trade and technology council has made it a priority to end the chif-fiana between the two regions. one of the unforeseen consequences of the coronavirus pandemic is the emergence of a global shortage in the semiconductor market, the impact of which will be felt most strongly by the automotive industry. the scarcity of raw materials required to produce the chip significantly increases the cost of automotive production, which is projected to cause severe damage to industry players in the coming years. all of this could cause the price of cars to rise dramatically. and the collateral damage of the crisis will be the customers. their wallets will be the most strained. i hope that the european commission will act as soon as possible and develop a new action plan that takes into account the interests of consumers.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the report of mr charles goerens and mr rainer wieland, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the status and funding of european political parties and european political foundations [2021/2018 (ini) ] (a9-0294/2021).
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. political parties are an integral part of democratic culture. democracy should be about people and their communities, not about ideological representation. we need to reflect the diversity of the peoples of europe in the european parliament. national political parties form the basis for the organisation of european political parties. as required by the charter, it is therefore essential that they enjoy a wide range of freedom in the formulation of their programme and political identity. the precarious ideological control over them at european level undermines the genuine democracy of the exercise of power. therefore, any attempt to define the european political party map from the top down, contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, is aimed at a european federalist system. especially when they also show the introduction of the transnational electoral system. i am concerned that an authority over political parties has a licence to exercise a guardianship over national parties which play a role at european level. there is no such authority at national level. we cannot agree with ideological controls, but we can and do live with the accountability controls of the legality of the use of eu funds.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 november 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
i'll close this discussion. the amendments will be voted on tuesday, with the final vote taking place on wednesday. ( the sitting was suspended at 7.49 p.m.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr tomasz frankowski, drawn up on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european union sport policy: evaluation and possible further steps (2021/2058 ((ini)) a9-0318/2021. i remind members that no debate in this chamber will be held on the basis of a request for an oral question, nor will we accept a greeting card. in addition, as in previous sessions, speeches can be expected from parliament's liaison offices in the member states by means of a remote link.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms dolors montserrat, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european strategy on medicines (2021/2013 ((ini)) a9-0317/2021
in writing. the coronavirus has put health at the top of the european union's agenda, signalling that better and faster solutions are needed to successfully manage a possible new outbreak. i welcome the ep's proposal for a pharmaceutical strategy and support the overall aim of the report, to develop a strategy that contributes to tackling drug shortages, promoting equal access to medicines, ensuring a european supply of safe and affordable medicines, meeting the needs of patients and supporting the european pharmaceutical industry's leading role in the world. however, this will require increasing the capacity of existing pharmaceutical manufacturers in the european union and introducing new manufacturers into the production chain. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the production capacity of pharmaceutical companies must be diversified, it is very important to involve advanced production capacities in central and eastern europe and share know-how through industrial partnerships in order to increase production.
mr president, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the world's nations set out on a high-minded journey to the cop26 climate conference, which ended with a fragile agreement. perhaps the most important result is that there is finally a consensus that we need to not just talk about climate change, but act on it! we can see that only by acting together can we accelerate the climate change process. but it should not be forgotten that, despite the fact that the eu is responsible for 9% of the world's total emissions, it is the commission that is now proposing the most drastic measure to the member states of the union: taxing car and home owners under the guise of climate protection, by raising the price of food. this disproportion is already threatening our competitiveness. we cannot allow our citizens to be left totally vulnerable to high prices on the altar of climate action, while our global partners do far less to protect our environment.
mr president, i agree with those expressing their disappointment over the results of the glasgow summit and also share the concern and even some of the frustration of younger generations about the state of the planet they inherit. true, cop26 fell short of many expectations, but let’s be fair and realistic. streamlining 27 different opinions on any subject is difficult enough at the best of times. merging 197 perspectives on climate change is a daunting task, but not impossible. now, despite all odds, the final document adopted the rulebook for the paris accords. it committed itself to the 1.5 degree target, committed itself to reducing coal and fuel subsidies, to reducing methane, deforestation, phasing out production of petrol and diesel cars. and most importantly, it pledged support to south africa to phase out its coal plants, setting an example for cooperation with africa and the developing world. the above sets the agenda for cop27 in egypt. let’s not fall into despair. let’s keep our ambitions high. let’s keep everyone engaged and move forward together.
mr president, bernadett orosz, a mother of six from hungary, was brutally and repeatedly beaten by her partner. her nose got fractured, her eardrum exploded and her face was disfigured. when she asked for a restraining order, she couldn’t get one. out of desperation, she took pictures of her injuries and posted them on social media, and then she was sued for invasion of privacy. colleagues, bernadett is an eu citizen. her story clearly shows that our system is broken. our system is failing victims, and the istanbul convention is our most powerful tool to repair it. there is clear evidence of that from countries that have ratified it. there is a clear positive change from prevention to prosecution. let me just say that the populist right’s shameful attacks and the smear campaign against the convention is absolutely horrendous. we have also already heard in this chamber that this is against their values – as if violence could ever be a value. hungarian minister judit varga talks about political hysteria as if the victim’s cry for help could ever be mistaken for hysteria. it’s time for the eu to step up. it’s time for an eu-level ratification of the istanbul convention. we call on the incoming french presidency to put it on the council agenda, because women in the eu deserve much better.
madam president, dear colleagues, let me be very clear, organisations such as the wagner group simply should not exist and not because the kremlin does not acknowledge their existence, i mean they should not be able to operate at all, full stop. because a paramilitary group profiting off chaos and violence is not only immoral, it is profoundly dangerous. acting as an extended arm of putin, the wagner group is a direct risk for europe and a direct threat to our strategic interests. their strategic goals are our foreign policy nightmares. our failure is their success. a danger to our societies, to our democracy and indeed to our sovereignty. the wagner group has ignored international agreements and committed grave human rights violations across the globe. it is deeply concerning that they could do this undisturbed for so long. but the era of impunity has to be over. with the council’s belated decision to target a group of sanctions there is finally some hope for accountability. so i urge the council to extend measures to the kremlin’s decision-makers responsible for wagner’s operations. we finally have a working sanctions regime colleagues, so let’s use it efficiently.
madam president, please. europe's digital economy is concentrated in the hands of a few large online platforms. these so-called gatekeepers are unfortunately exploiting their dominant position, forcing european smes to adapt to conditions that impede their development. i believe that this landmark regulation on digital markets will boost innovation and increase the competitiveness of smes. i also welcome the european parliament's commitment to protecting children by prohibiting platforms from displaying personalised ads on them. we can see that social media is the number one threat to minors. our children are more vulnerable to harassment, violence or intimidation online. we cannot allow online content to be shaped by the profits of the tech giants.
in writing. the european outbreak of the omicron variant of the coronavirus and the still-present delta variant are keeping the population in uncertainty, overwhelming hospitals and experts say they could soon trigger another epidemic in europe. to prevent this, it is important to emphasize that everyone should take the third shot as soon as possible, because there is currently no other cure! in hungary, more than 3 million of my compatriots have already received the third vaccination, which means that we can already talk about the downward phase of the fourth wave. and the data indicates that the epidemic is slowing down at a much faster rate. in the light of these facts, i would like to call on the european commission and the european medicines agency to adopt a rational, people-centred approach to saving lives, rather than ideological debates, and to adopt the vaccines currently awaiting authorisation as soon as possible. vaccines can't be an ideological issue, because every vaccine has saved lives!
madam president, please. if the european commission's internal communication guidelines had not been withdrawn, many people would have looked at me with a frown for addressing this issue. i think it is quite astonishing and shocking that in the 21st century this should be the subject of a plenary debate in the european parliament. i believe that the commission has not only taken a harmful but also a terribly dangerous path. the proposal has caused a great deal of scandal. by banning the word christmas, they have declared war on our culture, our traditions, and have tried to discredit our christian identity. we hungarians have experienced the christmas tree festival, we remember well the christmases of the communist dictatorship. if we deny our christian roots, there is no future for the european union, there is no future for europe. we will not allow our history and christian traditions to be erased! a merry christmas to you all.
madam president, it appears that the eu learned from the mistakes of the previous migration crisis, which not only had a disastrous direct impact on europe but also boosted the illiberal regime of viktor orbán in hungary. just another disease that seems to be contagious. he used this opportunity to undermine the last vestiges of democracy and rule of law, just the same way as lukashenko uses migration today to divert attention from a stolen election, the plight of political prisoners, tikhanovskaya’s sham trial and the freedom struggle of an entire nation. strengthening and protecting our borders against illegal migration and defending our values simultaneously: this is our task – and, of course, never giving in to the blackmail of authoritarian regimes, either within or outside the eu.
mr president, two weeks ago we travelled to the polish-belarus border with a group of mep colleagues. we spent a day there talking to local communities to get first-hand information about the effects of this hybrid war, where innocent people are being used as weapons. the belarusian dictator, lukashenko, manufactured this crisis for his own sinister goals and, as a result, people are freezing to death on the eu’s doorstep; teenage children, pregnant women and so many more. the situation on the ground is dramatic. i was moved deeply by the kindness of the local residents in the small towns in the border area. they are collecting warm blankets and food and doing anything they can to help. it is a shame that they have to do it secretly and at night because their own government cordoned off the border area and does not let anyone in. these people understand that shoving problems under the rug and blocking journalists, blocking meps’ access, does not make the problems go away. looking the other way might be more comfortable, sure, but it is inhumane and it is not a solution. this is a humanitarian emergency. this is an eu crisis, and we need a common eu response. this is not the time to turn down eu help for political reasons. we need forceful frontex engagement. we need humanitarian help and solidarity, and we need to continue putting pressure on the lukashenko regime because a democratic belarus is the long-term guarantee of the eu’s safety.
vážená pani predsedajúca, animals used in circuses are involuntary participants in performances that endanger their physical and mental health. researchers found that 99% of their time is spent in stressful living conditions and in small cages without enough space for them to grow and live their lives normally. in the short time it remains to entertain people. all of this is cruelty to animals first and foremost. but it also poses a risk to humans. in europe alone we have seen 478 incidents involving 889 animals over the last few years. the fault for all this cannot be placed on the animal, although in all these circumstances it is the animal that is the culprit and ends up being killed. 23 state member states have already adopted laws restricting the use of animals in circuses. another country is also currently in the process of passing its own law to stop them. however, i am very happy that in countries like malta, it is already a law and we have a ban on the use of animals in circuses. but, mr commissioner, we must listen to the european citizens. one million citizens are calling on the european commission to take immediate action and ban the use of animals in circuses across the european union. only a complete ban can guarantee a coherent and effective solution to the suffering these animals endure on a daily basis. this is a matter that affects every member state of the european union, because we see them being transported from one country to another in the european union where they are chained up in small vans for long hours to move from one country to another in order to go and give these shows. so i ask the commission to put an end to this issue once and for all in europe.
madam president! so far, only three european countries have completely banned the use of animals in circuses: applause for malta, cyprus and greece! but there are also some strange categories like the prohibition against using dangerous animals, which does not apply to non-dangerous animals, and so camels and llamas, for example, can be tortured because they don't have sharp fangs or terrible claws. commissioner, you must not hide from the responsibility of the member states. environmental protection is our common policy. we're responsible for her together. and these animals are part of nature. they are part of the environment and we are responsible for them together. so please prepare a bill to ban the use of at least these wild animals in circuses, and preferably all of them. you've heard the opinions in this room. we hear the views of the majority of eu citizens. such a proposal will be very widely supported, so go ahead, european commission!
i have to say, madam president, "tiger in the circus" "but that's unnatural, those poor animals", i heard a ten-year-old girl say, who was in the circus. why is this clear to children and not so clear to many adults? times are changing, because children are increasingly questioning the conventional. but not just her. the commission has received one million signatures calling for a ban on the keeping of animals in circuses. there are no longer any reasons that could justify the use of wild animals in circuses today, and there are no acceptable alternatives to a total ban on all species. we now have a responsibility to teach our children that such magnificent animals must be treated with respect and empathy in a natural environment, and not forced into an unnatural existence that involves considerable physical and mental suffering. what's clear to children should be clear to us long ago. the commission now has a million reasons in the form of signatures to ban wild animals in circuses immediately and not leave it to the member states.
madam president, suffering on tour, this is what wild animals in circuses experience. is it a life worth living? scientists, vets and ngos don’t think so. and, colleagues, i’m on their side. there is overwhelming evidence that wild animals in circuses are destined to a life of physical abuse and mental torture. undercover investigations reveal cruel practices, with training often relying on fear, to ensure the attention and compliance of animals in front of an audience. many european countries started to implement bans on this cruel practice. however, some member states have no legislation whatsoever addressing this issue. and, given the cross—border nature of circuses, we call on an eu-wide ban to finally put an end to this suffering and abuse. and don’t get me wrong, i have nothing against circuses. there are amazing animal—free performances out there, bringing fun and excitement without the heart—breaking acts of elephants and bears that have been caged for their entire lives, forced to perform tricks through fear and intimidation and denied the ability to express their natural instinct. it’s time to adopt legislation that addresses these serious ethical concerns and helps the transformation of circuses into magical places using creativity, gymnastics, art and technology, because animals deserve our respect and our protection.
mr president, serbia is a country that wants to join the eu, and that’s great – as long as they fulfil the accession criteria. and the last time i checked, letting china export their harrowing labour standards to europe was not among them. what’s happening at the linglong tyre factory in serbia is basically institutionalised human trafficking and organised slavery, with a front seat view for us to witness how china treats its so-called economic partners. the serbian authorities must step up and ensure that the rights of all factory employees are respected. the only question is: why haven’t they done this already? and the answer is obvious: china’s creeping influence prevents them from doing so. this is what happens, dear colleagues, when we allow beijing to dictate the terms of cooperation. and let this be a lesson for the commission before negotiating another investment agreement with china. let this be a lesson for all member states who think that chinese investment comes without any strings attached. and let this be a lesson for the eu as a whole. if we do not step up our efforts in our neighbourhood policy, other global powers will, with europe picking up the pieces.
