on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i think there are some really positive elements in this report. we welcome the call to strengthen procedural safeguards, rule of law and fundamental rights in judicial cooperation. we’re very glad to see the call for less intrusive instruments instead of the european arrest warrant (eaw) and the eaw only being used as a last resort. we’re glad to see the call for the equality of arms between prosecution and defence, which has long been sought, and we’re very glad to see the call for the commission to promote and facilitate access to training for criminal lawyers. so why, in god’s name, are we trying to undermine that good work by the politicisation of this report by elements in this parliament opposed to catalan independence? is there no end to this really? unhappy with the fact that catalan politicians were not extradited from belgium or from germany because the crimes that they were supposedly responsible for are actually not crimes at all under the double criminality clause in those countries, and instead of seeing that now and making sure that doesn’t happen again, we see in this report the call for offences against public order and constitutional integrity to be exempt from double criminality. we cannot accept that. have you not learned from history? you cannot suppress a movement by repressive measures, and fundamental rights apply to everybody – even catalans – and you should remember that. and last, but not least, i think it would be wrong not to mention julian assange in the context of a debate on extradition, still in prison for journalism, for exposing us war crimes. he’s done humanity a great service. i call on joe biden to free him now.
madam president, i welcome the report. i think it indicates quite clearly that there are still huge barriers to the financial services in the single market. there is no doubt: if we are to be serious about ensuring that europe works for the citizens, the area of financial services is a key area that has to be addressed. we have to remove the barriers. some of them are historic, but more are left there intentionally because of nationalistic financial services’ views of member states. so, if we are to work for citizens, i highlight a particular issue that is very relevant in the everyday lives of people in ireland. the average mortgage rate in ireland is 2.9%. the eu average is 1.3%. that is a key area where financial services is not functioning on behalf of the citizens of ireland. the irish banking system is gouging profits from mortgage holders in ireland. so clearly, we need to ensure there’s no barriers, remove the obstacles, create competition and ensure that citizens benefit – and in this context, irish mortgage holders and small businesses – to ensure that they have fair interest rates.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms roose, and the committee on fisheries (pech) for bringing forward this important own—initiative report on more fish in the sea. yes, more fish in the sea is what we all want and what this planet needs. our fishermen and women, who go to sea every day to supply us with healthy food from the ocean, are the first to benefit from more fish in the waters, but abundant life in the ocean also plays a crucial role in our fight against climate change. the ocean has absorbed more than 90% of human—generated heat in the last century. it will only keep its ability to protect us if its ecosystems are healthy and rich, with lots of fish in its waters. i also welcome most of the findings of this report. they support the commission’s approach under the european green deal, the biodiversity strategy for 2030 and the common fisheries policy. in the past decade, we have achieved significant progress to increase fish stocks in the north—east atlantic, where the rate of fishing is on average already close to the maximum sustainable yield. however, we are still confronted with overfishing in the mediterranean basin. we are starting to make progress there too, with the multiannual plan for demersal stocks in the western mediterranean and with many measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, mostly proposed by the eu. our immediate priority is to build further on that success. in order to further move towards more sustainable fishing in all sea basins, i agree with the report that we need to improve our fisheries management to end overfishing. we need to expand our network of marine protected areas, improve their management and tackle other environmental factors beyond fishing that threaten our fish stocks. when speaking about improving our fisheries management, i fully agree that more data collection is necessary in order to assess the health of our stocks and monitor bycatches of sensitive species like harbour porpoise and dolphins. bycatch must be eliminated or, where this is not possible, minimised so as not to threaten species conservation status. we need to do everything to better protect sensitive species and sensitive habitats. this is clearly required by the technical measures regulation. the commission will present, later this year, a report on the implementation of this regulation and, as announced in the biodiversity strategy, an action plan to conserve fishery resources and protect marine ecosystems, which we announced in the biodiversity strategy and for which the roadmap will be published very shortly. i agree with the report that we need more sea areas covered by marine protected areas with a more efficient management and control system in order to deliver in the interest of our fishermen and women and to protect marine biodiversity. i hope that the final report, as it will be voted on thursday, will keep this high level of ambition in terms of sustainable fishing and healthy fish stocks. regarding the use of the maximum economic yield advocated in the report, i am more cautious. at this stage, the priority is reaching maximum sustainable yield for all stocks, which is also the agreed legal objective of our current common fisheries policy.
i would like to thank mrs caroline roose for her work. i believe we have reached a balanced report which contributes to improving the sustainability of the exploitation of the seas. i would like to stress the challenge to the commission, the member states and the scientific community to find a scientific model that is better suited to the management and exploitation of multispecies fisheries. it will be an important development, which could contribute to the more sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, with environmental gains, but also social and economic gains for the sector. i advocate the use of marine protected areas as an essential tool in the protection, management and recovery of marine habitats and species. for this tool to fulfil its purpose, it is necessary to ensure that it functions through good governance based on the best available scientific knowledge with constant monitoring and effective control. in implementing and managing marine protected areas, it is essential that all stakeholders are involved and, in this regard, i stress that from the very beginning of the establishment of any marine protected area, commercial fishing, recreational fishing as well as all other sectors of commercial and recreational activity and the populations of the surrounding areas should be called into the process. marine protected areas are not incompatible with the existence of certain more selective fishing activities with less negative impacts on the environment or on existing resources. we must once and for all combat and demystify this idea, both among the members of this parliament and among the fishing communities, because only in this way will we be able to implement the changes that are so relevant and necessary for the protection, recovery and resilience of the habitats and biodiversity of the european sea. i conclude, mr president, by stating that i support the implementation of ambitious targets for the percentage of marine areas to be protected, as advocated in the biodiversity strategy to 2030.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, welcome commissioner sinkevičius and well done to caroline roose for an excellent report. there’s a simple logic to the message i’d like to share with you today. it’s if we keep on taking fish out of our seas at the current rates, without giving them a chance to rest and reproduce, our sea beds will become barren waste grounds sapped of marine life, and a wonderful source of food and employment. protecting 30% of our waters should be legally binding by 2030 as recommended in the biodiversity strategy. we need more fish in our seas, not less. the eu committed to end over-fishing by 2020 - clearly, this has not happened. it is possible to implement measures that will allow for effective management of marine protected areas where fish will be given space to thrive. it is possible to do this whilst supporting sustainable fishing communities. using improved fishing methods and monitoring and further improvements around meeting the basic targets set out by the common fisheries policy and the marine strategy framework directive, we can and we must halt this decline. this crisis is made more urgent now with the complexities of ‘live’ brexit. over-fishing is a human-made problem but with a comprehensive and committed rebuild and restore strategy, we humans can be the solution. we can have more fish in the sea.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, commissioner, i was recently contacted by scallop fishermen and processors from kilmore quay in duncannon in wexford in ireland about changes to landing rules in the uk due to brexit. the irish scallop fleet consists of just seven scallop boats from these two small coastal communities. the new requirements that have to be issued by uk centres from this month and then the complete ban on eu scallop boats landing at uk ports from april will destroy these businesses if we can’t find a solution. the brexit deal is bad for the irish fleet. however, the 2020 economic report on the eu fishing fleet shows once again that the main driver affecting the economic performances of the eu fleet is the health of fish stocks. why, then, does the eu want to continue to promote overfishing by reintroducing harmful subsidies in the new european maritime and fishery fund? we need to do more to support small-scale low-impact fishing and end harmful capacity-enhancing subsidies. coastal communities in ireland are worried that the eu may bring back subsidies that are harmful and ones that were removed before, and they fear that they will favour the supertrawlers who do the damage. please, commissioner, look after them.
mr. president, the covid-19 pandemic has revealed the structural problems of our societies, causing a dramatic increase in inequalities, especially in some latin american countries. eclac predicts a brutal recession imminent, with an economic contraction of between 2% and 4% of gdp, a reduction in exports and an increase in the population in extreme poverty to over 90 million. my colleagues, dear high representative, in every difficulty there is an opportunity. the eu and latin america: it is time for them to promote a partnership, a perspective of creating a real and great alliance of regional integration organizations for multilateralism, which could also facilitate a reform of the united nations at last. we have almost a third of the votes, as you said, in the un. our shared agenda can make a difference. we share values and principles. to take this bi-regional cooperation further, it will be crucial that the commitments made in december are reflected in the allocation of these resources and interests, in the face of common problems such as climate change, the digital transition and social inequalities. this is what we have promised our citizens.
madam president, it is impossible to ignore the impact of the current pandemic, which is severely affecting the health of our citizens and economies on both sides of the atlantic. beyond the current crisis, we are facing other global challenges. there is a growing tendency to withdraw from multilateral cooperation to adopt more protectionist and isolationist policies, but building walls never works. we must seek greater cooperation with our global partners, such as in latin america, through dialogue, but also through agreements such as the eu-mercosur agreement. working together, we can better meet the challenges, whether it is climate change or the development of new technologies. but we must also remember that this cannot happen at any price, especially when it comes to human rights. and we'll talk about venezuela later, but countries like cuba or nicaragua have committed to protecting human rights through agreements with the european union. these regimes have shown us time and time again that these agreements are empty promises. it's time to stand up for our values and suspend these agreements. i ask you to take this message clearly to the eu-cuba joint council tomorrow.
madam president, mr borrell, we would like to see the relationship with latin america and the caribbean strengthened during the year. i believe that it is with an agenda that prioritises three areas: first, the social one, supporting policies and actions that contribute to redistributing wealth in the most unequal region of the world. encouraging redistributive policies and social investments is, if possible, more urgent in the midst of a pandemic that increases precariousness, poverty and also wreaks havoc on the already precarious middle class. secondly, the protection of the environment and natural resources. the region is home to half the world's biodiversity, but it is also the site of the largest number of conflicts related to environmental protection, often violent conflicts in which indigenous peoples are the main victims. thirdly, the protection of fundamental rights and their defenders, which are under threat in many countries in the region. the union already has instruments to act in these areas. what is needed now is to mobilise the political will to use them.
madam president, the ministerial conference talked about reducing inequality and overcoming the challenges of covid-19. the eu has lost the moral ground in latin america. in venezuela, you claimed that the elections weren’t fair before they even happened. we went to see for ourselves and found the process to be fair. the eu didn’t. in his latest book, vijay prashad reveals that in 2018, former us ambassador to venezuela william brownfield said that the us and others had to accelerate the collapse of venezuela. we should do it, he said, understanding that it’s going to have an impact on millions of people who are already having great difficulty finding enough to eat. in the midst of a pandemic, one would expect that all countries would work to mitigate the spread of the virus and the impact on human society. was this not a time for the us and the eu to have ended all sanctions against venezuela, nicaragua, cuba, iran, syria and many others? sadly, the eu is complicit in a crime against humanity.
madam president, hope is back in washington. in these dark hours, we look to the dawn of inauguration day. democracy remains under threat in europe and in the united states. but joe biden gets it. kamala harris gets it. they want to tackle injustice. they want to match our european green deal and address the climate emergency. so america, welcome back to the paris agreement. we missed you, mr kerry. let’s talk. let’s build this new transatlantic partnership, link climate action to racial justice, tackle poverty in baltimore, in brussels and in dublin. martin luther king said: ‘we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream.’ those words ring as true today as they did half a century ago. today, there is a ripple of hope. i’m irish, but my mother was from chicago. so i wish you well. ireland and the eu are your friends. we don’t always agree – we’ll call you out when we don’t – but today is a good day. a day of hope.
madam president, the storming of capitol hill on 6 january was not because people weren’t listened to; it was because they were actively encouraged by a partisan, divisive president. the days of trump politics are over and i hope that they’re over here in europe as well. for too long, we haven’t listened to the centre. we’ve been placating and appeasing the right. from now on, i think it’s important that we build a transatlantic alliance based on inclusive politics, on politics that are seen by the progressive centre as necessary. i wish joe biden the best of luck. i wish kamala harris the very best as well. they’re both people i passionately believe can bring politics back to the centre and ensure that we have a strong transatlantic alliance that works for citizens and doesn’t appease the right, either in the states or here in europe, of which, unfortunately, there are many in some governments in europe and, unfortunately, in this parliament too. so, from now on, let’s work together to ensure that the transatlantic alliance is strong, is emboldened and is confident in what we’re trying to achieve with regard to the environment, the economy and for the citizens of europe, the states and the world in general.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the poorest of the poor are suffering the consequences of the health, economic and social crisis linked to covid-19. in these very special times, more and more people are falling into great precariousness. logistical and human resource constraints, including due to the containment measures in place and social distancing, are increasingly hampering the distribution of basic food and material assistance, as well as support for social inclusion. many volunteers, and i should like to congratulate them, who are pillars of the front, can no longer mobilize as easily because some of them, it must be said, also belong to groups at higher risk of serious illnesses. there are also older people among them. the whole chain of solidarity and assistance to the most vulnerable is therefore weakened by this pandemic. to deal with this very worrying situation, it is europe, the european union, that is called upon, and i am therefore very pleased that the measures we have already taken, which we are going to take, will make it possible to combat this great precariousness. this report complements the previously adopted fead regulation and will make it possible to release additional resources. it is essential, it is a beautiful testimony to a europe of solidarity, close to the poor, a europe with a heart.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who have spoken and who have expressed their support and solidarity with the most deprived, with those who are the most affected by this crisis and who are indeed sometimes pushed to the very brink of despair. i believe that what has just been said by many of you, the message that is coming from here, from brussels or strasbourg, is not only a message from the heart, but it is a message of solidarity and it is also a side of europe that is often underestimated and unknown. it is the message that europe does indeed care about all its citizens. it must also take care of all its territories, including the outermost regions. the commission thanks you again for your work, especially the rapporteur, and is committed to implementing this regulation very quickly and to working with determination with all those on the ground who are implementing this aid to the most deprived so that they can get by. so there is an obvious link with the recovery plan, because we don't want to leave people in poverty. and i agree, it's a job we have to do but ultimately it's better not to have to do. and so recovery and thus the exit from this precarious situation is our objective, hence the importance of the recovery plan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday, 20 january 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by kim van sparrentak, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on access to decent and affordable housing for all (2019/2187 (ini)) (a9-0247/2020). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the report and also for the presentation of the report, which really highlighted the issue and the challenges, and the real dimension of the housing problem, which affects all member states in the european union. so it’s not just a national issue; it has become a real european issue. i also want to thank the committee on employment and social affairs for its timely and very relevant work on this report on access to housing. importantly, the report calls for an integrated approach to social, public and affordable housing at eu level. i very much share the objective of tackling homelessness and of supporting access to decent and affordable housing as a key factor in fighting poverty and social exclusion. we talk a lot about better wages, about minimum wages; this is extremely important. but even if i increase the minimum wage, if housing rents are increasing much more, people have not gained – they are not more prosperous; they have become even poorer. so i think the housing issue is a central issue in terms of social policy and improving the social context in all our member states. last year’s employment and social developments in europe highlighted the strain that the increase in house prices over the last decade is putting on the middle class in the eu. there is a poverty trap looming because of this housing crisis for a lot of people who can no longer afford to find decent housing, and i would say housing close to their job, which, incidentally, creates other issues of transportation and co2 emissions. housing costs are higher in cities than in rural areas and represent a burden for more than one third of households living below the poverty threshold. in 2018, one person out of seven in the eu was living in a dwelling of poor quality. thirty-four million europeans are struggling to keep their homes adequately warm in winter. and, more worryingly, homelessness trends have been on the rise over the last decade in most member states. and i agree that we need better and more data to really understand what is happening here. the covid-19 crisis has worsened inequalities and people’s ability to cover housing-related expenses. the health crisis has underlined how essential a decent home is to health and well-being. it has demonstrated the vulnerability of persons, families, children, who experience homelessness and the pressing need to address this extreme form of social exclusion. as the honourable members know, housing policies are obviously a national prerogative. but the eu has a key role to play in supporting its member states, in helping member states to exchange experiences – and indeed there are good and positive experiences all over europe – on developing affordable housing, and also, in financially supporting the development of affordable housing. in the context of the covid-19 recovery strategy, building renovation constitutes an opportunity to boost the green transition and, at the same time, employment. in particular, the renovation of social and affordable housing districts has the potential to reduce energy poverty, create local jobs and bring long—lasting benefits for communities. in this regard, local social economy enterprises can also play a key role by improving the accessibility and affordability of housing. the commission encourages member states to include building renovation in their recovery and resilience plans, with particular emphasis on social and affordable housing, and, in accordance with the principles introduced in the renovation wave, to establish long—term local public-private partnerships, supporting skills, digitalisation and smart technologies. energy poverty is a strong focus of the renovation wave. the commission has issued a recommendation to support national, regional and local efforts in tackling this issue. in addition, it will continue to support the eu energy poverty observatory, which collects data, develops indicators and disseminates best practices for tackling energy poverty. the commission will also support eradicating homelessness through next generation eu and the next long—term eu budget, namely under the european social fund plus (esf+) and the european regional development fund (erdf). in particular, the integrated housing——led approach will be supported by the erdf in combination with esf+. this approach follows the principles of housing first, which combines immediate housing with enabling services to help previously homeless people pay their rent, promotes stable living conditions and prevents repeat homelessness. to tackle all these issues, and to help member states – but also local authorities, municipalities and regions – address this problem of homelessness, together with the portuguese presidency we will organise a conference in june. it will be a broad conference bringing together all stakeholders – not only member states, the commission, parliament and national parliaments, but also local authorities and ngos – precisely to create a common platform to address the problem of housing and mainly the problem of homelessness. there are good approaches in certain member states and municipalities in our union. we really have to help everybody to address this problem efficiently, with the aim of reducing drastically – if not absolutely – the question of homelessness. the future invest-eu programme and its social and skills window will support investment in social housing and accompanying services for vulnerable groups. homelessness and housing affordability and their social and macroeconomic implications are considered in the context of the european semester and included in the country—specific recommendations addressed to member states. i’m looking ahead to the upcoming action plan implementing the european pillar of social rights, which will clearly emphasis this problem and we will discuss how to concretely translate principle 19 to the benefit of all those who suffer from bad housing or even the absence of housing.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, a very warm thanks to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done here - extremely important work, but also a somewhat difficult report in some details. so what you don't have to argue with the epp is the fundamental question and also the fundamental passion and willingness to fight against homelessness and for affordable housing, that you don't have to argue with us. but there are some details we need to discuss. that is why we have voted for two key votes in this report. the first is the question of the mandatory renovation quota. yes, when it comes to energy-efficient building renovation, the greatest potential is when it comes to the co2 savings question. but the goals must also be realistic and affordable. the same is true of a ban on investment in real estate. yes, there is a real conflict of interest here too. but if you look at the structure of private pension provision, you will see that real estate investment plays a big role here. so let's discuss these details, that's what we have to do. we shall do the same in the vote. but the basic direction that we need to put more horsepower on the road here is not something to argue with the epp. with that in mind, i would like to thank you again for your work.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i’m happy to take part in this discussion which is one more sign of the big social shift which we have witnessed in the european union in the last years. it is also sad that also in this part of the world in the 21st century we’re still trying to solve the problem of homeless people. it was a big challenge even before the pandemic, but now things, as we know, are getting even worse. economists predict that the current crisis will deepen the inequality, which means that the problem of housing will become even more serious. the renew group shares the call on the commission to take appropriate measures to help member states to solve the problem. we very much welcome the idea of broadening the scope of those who are entitled to receive social housing, and i believe we have to keep in mind that the european charter of fundamental rights and the pillar of social rights will promise europeans assistance in housing, so we must act. but it doesn’t mean that we have to overreact. renew europe does not believe that in order to solve a problem we have to intervene into the free market and try to use measures tailored for one particular member state all over europe. we are diverse not only culturally but also economically, and touristification in venice is not the same as, let’s say, on saaremaa island. but despite the fact that in some things the report goes too far, we welcome the initiative and hope that together with the commission we can make a big step in the european union where the right to housing will finally become not just a right, but the reality for everybody.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, housing is in the news often for all the wrong reasons. in europe, 700 000 people will sleep rough tonight. in my own country of ireland, 8 000 people are without a home today. rents and costs are high. many live in homes that are cold, damp and unaffordable. my colleague kim van sparrentak’s report says this does not have to be. everyone deserves decent and affordable housing. her report says we must recognise housing as a fundamental right under european union law. we must seek to end homelessness over the next decade. we must bring together our national strategies. that won’t help those who are homeless tonight, in brussels or in dublin, but it sends a message that member states must do more. we must provide housing first to those who are homeless. we must make the renovation wave a reality by retrofitting existing homes and bringing public housing up to an a energy rating. we must build public homes in the numbers needed and we must learn from cities like vienna and helsinki that give housing the priority it deserves.
rapporteur. – madam president, nobody left untouched: that’s the terrifying reality of this virus. nobody left untouched, but no equality in how this terrifying disease hits individuals, families, communities, nations or genders. the silent funerals with a sad scattering of masked mourners testify that more men than women are dying from the virus. this gender differential increases with age. older men, sadly, are dying from the virus in greater numbers than older women. we must examine and learn why and do what we can to keep each other safe. i suggest that each one of you has felt, perhaps this very minute, that your life has been put on pause, halted, stilled, silenced. the tragedy is that in each of our nations, to a greater or lesser extent, health care has been put on pause, halted, so cancer treatment and access to sexual and reproductive health services have declined. never again. we must regard this as the opportunity to act like never before in the field of health and build a functioning health union. it’s time to get to work, and i have to say that president von der leyen has made an excellent start. as we consider those who receive health care, let’s consider those who deliver it, the ones who got sporadic applause as they got us through this crisis: the 76% of health-care workers who are women, the 93% of childcare workers who are women, the 95% of domestic cleaners who are women, and the 86% of personal care workers who are women. sporadic applause for them? no, not nearly good enough. commissioner, we are asking you to bring forward pay transparency text urgently. no more gender pay gap for the heroes of this covid story. but for women workers everywhere, we must do better. we must learn from the last crisis and ensure that next generation eu takes account of gender bias. building and construction are important to turn an economy around in a swift way, but it leaves women behind because men generally do the constructing. commissioner and minister, you must put women at the front. as the commission examines the national action plans for next generation eu, we must make sure they are inclusive of women because, when women lose paid employment, they lose just one of their jobs. they go home and go back to the second job and the third job, caring. we know the stories over the past few months: women struggling to find time to sleep in between working, caring for family, home schooling and housework. we must be crystal clear: working from home is not a substitute for childcare. implementation of a work-life balance will be required to change this. but i believe that the eu can do more: harnessing eu funds for care infrastructure, collecting data on the situation of carers across the eu, and sharing best practice. surely, commissioner, it is time for a new european care strategy, and we ask you to bring forward a proposal. let’s not kid ourselves that work, home schooling, pastimes and housework are all that goes on behind closed doors in lockdown. the truth is that children and women are particularly often imprisoned with the violent in their own homes. member states must pivot services to help and support them, ensuring that law enforcement and courts have their backs, but also that civil society can provide the essential services of phone lines and shelters. it can’t wait, this shadow pandemic, it cannot be put on hold. the eu must combat violence against women, ratifying the istanbul convention, adding violence against women to the list of euro-crimes, and putting in place a strong legal framework to tackle all forms of gender-based violence. women are dying and we must intervene. if europe is to be a leader in the quest for human rights and equality, we must work with our global partners to support and empower women around the world. we must make team europe a shining light for women and girls across the world, a byword for a brighter post—covid future. colleagues, now we must look to the future. covid has taken so much from us, our daily routines, our moments of joy and so many, heartbreakingly, family, friends, neighbours. yet we will re-emerge, helped by vaccines. we shouldn’t be aiming at normal; we should be aiming at so much better than normal: a greener future, a more digital future, a gender—equal future. that means reaching out and bringing women to the table. it’s been said that women’s rights are human rights. similarly, women’s contributions are human contributions, lifting all people to a place where they can see a better future. one final point. this is a comprehensive and detailed report and i ask colleagues to give it wide support across this parliament today, but a report is just words on paper without a concrete commitment to implementation. so i have two questions. first, commissioner dalli, will you pledge to read the report and reflect on the calls to the commission? can you pledge to consider follow—up action based on the recommendations? to the council, minister, can you pledge to circulate this report for consideration by ministers as part of your priority topic on gender equality? can you pledge to hold a discussion amongst ministers on it? to both the council and the commission, i think your promise today to build back better on gender equality will be key post—covid because, as we know, we are united in diversity.
mr president, selahattin demirtas is being held hostage by erdogan. he's been in prison for four years without a trial. the arrest of mr glinne is the price of the struggle for a peaceful solution to the kurdish question, the price of a democratic turkey which respects human rights. other mps, elected mayors and hdp officials are also being persecuted along with him; because the hdp is not only a pro-kurdish party but a faction that rallies around it wider progressive forces that do not tolerate the authoritarianism of the current president of turkey. that's why erdogan is beating them mercilessly. 'i know what awaits me, but i cannot help but return to the side of my people,' he told the foreign affairs committee on the last time demirtas visited brussels before his arrest. now it is our turn to stand by his side, not in words but in deeds; the european council in march will be the judge of that. the european court of human rights has shown the way forward.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union has repeatedly conveyed its serious concerns about the continued negative developments regarding the human rights situation in turkey, along with specific recommendations in the commission’s annual report on turkey to urgently, and credibly, address all relevant shortcomings. meanwhile, the european court of human rights issued decisions confirming our concerns and calling for immediate action. it concluded that mr demirtas’s extended detention violated the european convention on human rights, including its article 18. moreover, the turkish constitutional court stated that his right to freedom and security was violated during his trial and on remand beyond a reasonable period. what more can i say? also, this house knows very well the situation of human rights defender, osman kavala, who has been held in pre—trial detention since november 2017, as well as the tragic case of ebru timtik. moreover, decisions and actions taken by the turkish authorities against mayors from opposition parties remain deeply concerning. hundreds of local politicians, elected office holders and thousands of members of the people’s democratic party have been detained on terrorism-related charges, since the local elections in march 2019. investigations were launched against others. some even considered banning the hdp, which would clearly send a further very worrying signal. we have always acknowledged that the turkish government has a legitimate right to fight terrorism. but it is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are enshrined in turkey’s constitution and its international commitments. concerns for the freedom of assembly in turkey have also risen recently due to an amended regulation, which gives the turkish police and intelligence access to military weaponry. we also cannot underestimate the threat that the recent law on preventing financing of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction presents to turkish civil society, which already operates in a hostile environment. the eu will continue to closely monitor the situation on the ground and to support turkish civil society and human rights activists who face continuous pressure. we have made clear in our statements, most recently on 30 december, that, as a candidate country and long-standing member of the council of europe, turkey urgently needs to make concrete and sustained progress in this and the respect of fundamental rights, which are a cornerstone of eu—turkey relations. progress on the cases of mrs demirtas and kavala and other human rights cases is of the essence.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. the following are the list of the persons who are to be included in the list of persons who are to be included in the list of persons who are to be included:
in writing. turkey is today a huge prison holding hostage millions of people who disagree politically with the neo-ottoman regime, among them the political leader demirtaş. under the erdogan regime, there were 27,493 victims of torture and 86 others lost their lives. the biggest government project in recent years is the construction of prisons worth 300 million euros. the chairman of the relevant committee of the council of europe described turkey as an authoritarian-dictatorial regime, stressing that there is no independent judiciary, but it is a government tool in its authoritarian policies. in addition, we are witnessing turkish expansionism in the eastern mediterranean, libya, syria, iraq and the caucasus. if the above were about another country, severe sanctions (trade, defence, etc.) would have already been imposed, but for turkey, specific governments of member states are preventing them. in particular, germany is selling ultra-modern submarines to turkey to be used against european interests and member states in the eastern mediterranean. i am addressing the voters who are aware of the dangers to european interests. the imposition of tough sanctions is the only way for turkey to comply in practice with the european court of justice's decisions to end the repression and imprisonment of political dissidents. in the face of demirtas, we honor the conscience of humanity fighting for freedom, justice and human rights. that's why i nominated him for the sakharov prize.
the house adopted a resolution on the situation of human rights in vietnam, in particular the case of human rights defenders pham chi dung, nguyen tuong thuy and le huu minh tuan (2021/2507 (rsp)) *.
author. – mr president, today we have our third resolution this term in support of western-backed anti-china protesters in hong kong, where police have killed no protestors yet. why don’t we want to talk about yemen, or ethiopia? we have not had one resolution on the saudi-uae genocidal war being waged against the people of yemen. the un says the greatest humanitarian crisis in the world is taking place there. millions are being intentionally starved to death. the un says the number of people in tigray, in northern ethiopia, in need of life-saving assistance is at least 2.3 million, as a result of the war crimes of the unelected abiy ahmed. the changing of the guard in ethiopia in 2018 was considered by the us as an opportunity for disrupting chinese influence and now the us and the eu turn a blind abiy’s war crimes, and all we want to talk about it in here are us-backed protesters in hong kong. meanwhile, the eu and our friends are immune from criticism and when you have armed contracts with totalitarian regimes, who carry out terrible atrocities, you look the other way. i will take seriously the concern expressed in here for us-paid journalists imprisoned in vietnam when you deal with the millions of starving and dying children in yemen and demand they be free from saudi-uae aggression and free from the fear of the weapons of the us, canadian, uk, french, german, swedish spanish and belgian countries blowing them to pieces.
mr president, president lagarde, vice-president dombrovskis, just to say at the outset, i very much welcome this report and i also welcome the rapid response of the ecb, in terms of its monetary policy during the pandemic itself, and certainly the pepp purchasing programme was very, very welcome. it added confidence, i think, to markets across the globe, and it certainly added confidence to the eurozone itself. of course, there are significant challenges downstream of where we are now, madam lagarde, in terms of the public debt that is being piled onto sovereigns across the entire european union, and that is going to be a significant challenge in the years ahead. so what i’m saying is, we do need to ensure that the monetary policy of the ecb mirrors that, and hopefully that of member states, in terms of their fiscal policy, because there will be significant pressures in terms of sovereigns trying to refinance huge sums of public debt in the years ahead if we don’t have a seamless unwinding from the pandemic emergency purchasing programme and also from the european union, particularly the stability and growth pact, if that is reintroduced. so i would like that particular issue to be taken on board and looked at.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, madam president, honourable members, well, first of all, thank you for today’s debate. i think it has shown a degree of convergence of views on most of the aspects of the report. the commission believes that the ecb’s accountability towards the european parliament is an essential element of the european governance system and an important condition for its independence. the ex-post assessment of ecb activities by the european parliament is an important part of the ecb’s democratic accountability. i look forward to continued dialogue and close cooperation among our three institutions. this is vital in order for the euro area to function smoothly and properly. in recent months, it has been instrumental in designing an appropriate policy response to the crisis and laying the foundations for a solid sustainable recovery. in this spirit, i look forward to tomorrow’s plenary debate on the recovery and resilience facility. it is in the interest of all europeans to put the agreement we reached in december into effect as soon as possible.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, let me first thank mr simon and all his colleagues for the draft resolution. i would also like to thank the commission, you, mr dombrovskis, for your support for the great cooperation that we have on so many of the issues that we both tackled. let me also thank each and every one of you for your questions, for your comments, for your views. i’ve taken due note of it. i’m not necessarily going to respond to each and every one of your points or your questions because it would take us way into the night and i’m not sure that we want to do that. but i will try to tackle quickly some of the issues because i think that they are critically important for our mandate, and they are also relevant for our cooperation. i’m not going to touch on the economic outlook. i think that not many of you actually raised the issue and i think that we know quite well what the prospects are, and i’ve touched on that in my opening remarks. i would like to come back to one item which is clearly related to the output and the composition of that output, and that is inflation, which was touched on by some of you. i’ll start with reiterating what i was nicely reminded of, which is that price stability is the mandate of the ecb. there is no question in our minds, and certainly no question in my mind, that this is the case. but i would like to turn to inflation a bit because it is a matter that has been changing recently and i would like to come back to that. as we saw in january, headline inflation increased after having been in negative territory for almost half a year in 2020. this swing was partly expected. according to eurostat’s flash estimates, harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp) inflation increased to +0.9% in january, after having been at -0.3% in december and before. that swing reflects, to a considerable extent, the increase in energy inflation due to upward base effects and the recent oil increases. in particular, it reflects the reversal of the temporary vat rates in germany, and the change in the hicp weight that always takes place at the start of the year, and which now reflects the consumption structure of 2020, which, under the impact of the covid pandemic has changed, compared to that of 2019. headline inflation is expected to gradually increase further in the coming months, and this will largely be due to base effects in energy inflation, as the drops in oil prices in early 2020 will fade away from the annual growth rates. in the near term, domestic price pressures will remain subdued, though, owing to factors that i have mentioned, which are weak demand, increasing labour market slack, euro exchange rate appreciation and softer wage pressures. it is because of those factors, which clearly imply negative pressure on prices, that we believe that in order to reach the price stability that has been defined back in 2003 as close to below 2%. it is for that reason that we believe that ample monetary stimulus remains essential to preserve favourable financing conditions over the pandemic period for all sectors of the economy. this will help to reduce uncertainty and support confidence, encourage consumer spending and investment and ultimately underpin economic activity and safeguard medium-term price stability. so you see, price stability is clearly right and centre in our considerations when we decide our monetary policies on a regular basis. i would like to touch on a couple more issues which you have mentioned that have to do with the link between fiscal and monetary, and i would like to just come back to the european response to the crisis that you actually address in your resolution, mr rapporteur. first of all, i would like to emphasise that the national fiscal responses have been crucial so far. they helped secure employment, prevent a rise in structural unemployment and safeguard the survival of firms. indeed, it’s the e contrario reasoning that has to apply, and the counterfactuals are always difficult to demonstrate, but there is no uncertainty in our mind that this has been critical for those three purposes. but more will be needed as another pandemic wave sweeps across europe still and delays recovery. an ambitious and coordinated fiscal stance remains critical in view of the sharp contraction of the euro-area economy and this support will continue to be needed in order to avoid the cliff effects and not leave anyone behind. now, as i said, as much as possible those fiscal measures should be targeted and should be temporary in nature and be mindful of medium-term fiscal sustainability. the longer fiscal support prevails, the more the quality of this measure is of the essence. needless to say, next generation eu, once duly ratified by all 27 members and properly rolled out, will support fiscal recovery and will be an important ingredient in the strategy going forward, but it must become operational without delay. for this, it is critical that member states channel european funds into much needed reforms and investment, including in the areas of climate change and digitalisation. finally, we need to reflect on the lessons of the recovery and resilience facility for the fiscal architecture in the medium term. with next generation eu, for the first time ever, europe has put in place a common counter cyclical budget. it can also contribute to making eu economies structurally stronger, thereby reducing the divergences in growth and income. we will also need to reflect on a future reform of the stability and growth pact going forward. now let me say a few words about our strategy review. some of you have mentioned it and, as you know, there are quite a few items that will be on our list of investigation as far as this review is concerned. as you know, we decided to extend the timeline, because of the pandemic, but now we’re back in full swing and moving fast. we expect to conclude the review in the second half of 2021. in several topical sessions so far, we have discussed inflation, inflation measurements, fiscal policies, price-stability objectives and monetary policy instruments, with all members of the governing council. more sessions are planned in the coming months and we are still in the general mode of listening, discussing, reflecting. since all review-related issues are strongly interdependent, it is premature at present to draw any conclusions and to present them. we also involve external parties in some parts and stages of the process and i will ensure the involvement of this parliament throughout the review process, as part of my regular exchanges with the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), and also in the context of dedicated visits to the ecb. i would like to finish with some key points on climate change, which some of you have mentioned. i think it is important and i know that it’s not music to everyone’s ears, but it is the reality. the primary responsibility to address climate change lies with governments, who have the most important tools at hand. i’m convinced that we need to see faster progress along three interlocking dimensions: including, informing, innovating. those are my three is that i significantly expanded upon in a previous speech – i will not bother you with that – but what i mean by that is that we need to include the true social and environmental cost of carbon into the prices paid by all sectors of the economy. i know that parliament is working hard on that. we also need to get greater information on the exposure of individual companies in order to make sure that climate risks are adequately priced. lastly, we need to see substantial green innovation and investment. both, however, require a complex ecosystem of which finance is a key element. the eu must make progress to consolidate its leading role in sustainable finance. green bond issuance by euro-area residents has grown sevenfold since 2015, reaching 75 billion in 2020. funding for green innovation must also come from other market segments. recent analysis points to the beneficial role of equity investors – research by the ecb, i have to say. completing the capital markets union should provide a further push to support equity based green finance by fostering deep and liquid capital markets across europe. the fact that central banks are not responsible directly for climate policy does not mean that we can ignore climate change or that we do not play any role in combating it. climate change is, in my view, very relevant to the ecb mission. the scale and the irreversibility of its consequences calls for not medium- or long-term action, but for immediate action from all actors, each within their competence, each within their mandate. the material effect of climate change as well as the acceleration of the transition have macroeconomic and financial implications. they have consequences for price stability (our mandate), for financial stability and banking supervision (also a responsibility of the ecb), as well as for the euro system’s own balance sheet. we are aware of these consequences and determined to mitigate and adapt to them. the ecb is thus reflecting on the emerging risks related to climate change in the pursuit of its treaty tasks. we are assessing those issues in the context of our ongoing strategy review. we are, in particular, considering how environmental sustainability considerations can be relevant in pursuing ecb policies not applied only to the non-monetary policy portfolios, but way beyond that. so, there will be more to come as we progress in our strategy review and, i hope, for the better of generations to come. with that, mr vice-president, i thank you very much for your patience with me and for your hospitality.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 9 february 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the european central bank (ecb) was called upon in 2020 to play its role of stabilising prices, driving forward european policies in response to the pandemic crisis and supporting the financing of responses even more demandingly, in line with the priorities of protecting jobs and sustainable development. the rapid and substantive response in providing monetary resources has maintained balance in financial markets and enabled member states to design and implement contingency plans that are essential to protect the economy and the social fabric. it is essential that this policy continues, with a focus on the real economy and without the pressure on fiscal rules or debt management becoming a constraint on the capacity to respond to the health, economic and social impacts of the pandemic. in 2020 the ecb contributed to maintaining a favourable investment environment. it is important that it pursues monetary policies that stimulate growth and employment, including an alignment of its priorities with the european union's sustainability priorities. an interinstitutional agreement between the ecb and the european parliament, which is being negotiated, will improve the accountability of the ecb's activities to the elected representatives of the member states.
we now move to the vote. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will run from now until 7.45 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as at previous partsessions. the vote on the period of waiver of mr álvaro amaro's immunity and the vote on the appointment of the vice-chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank will be by secret ballot, which means that members can exercise their right to vote in the usual way, but the ballot they are given to sign will not show the meaning of the vote by merely mentioning that they have already voted. all other votes will be, as usual, nominal. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing and, exceptionally, explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. i declare the voting period open and will continue until 7.45 p.m. the results of the votes which are now being taken will be announced tomorrow at 8.30 a.m.
there will be no 'catch the eye' or 'blue card' questions in any debate at this part-session. in addition, interventions from our liaison offices in the member states are also planned. the debate will continue on the report by mr huitema, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the new action plan for the circular economy (2020/2077 (ini)) (a9-0008/2021).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. what do i mean by that? natural resources are used, they are mined, they are used to make products. we use those products maybe once or twice, and then they become waste. if we continue to use all these natural resources at this rate, by 2050, we will not need one planet earth, but three. at some point, this just stops. it's much better to make sure that the waste that we otherwise incinerate or dump, for example, is used as a valuable raw material to make our products. not only is a circular economy better for that. this is also, i think, of paramount importance to achieving the green deal goals. or to put it more bluntly: i'm absolutely convinced that if we scale up our circular economy, we can meet the goals of the green deal and be climate neutral by 2050. circular economy is not just good for the environment. i am also convinced that it will be a major benefit to our economy. in fact , i 'm not . i think if we want to be competitive with the rest of the world in the future, we need a circular economy. why would you do that? the european union is not known to have a great deal of raw materials or natural resources. other continents have many more. nor can we always compete on, say, low wages. but what we can compete with is that we have a lot of knowledge, a lot of skill and a lot of innovation. and that's beautifully reflected in a circular economy, so in that sense, it's a win-win. there's a third component that's very important when it comes to the circular economy: the social aspect. in this report we pay attention to the lifetime of products as well as to the transparency of products, and for example also to the right of consumers to have products repaired. i've been talking to a lot of companies lately. they all say: we see different obstacles, but we can do much more. there are actually two major obstacles that are holding back the circular economy. the main obstacle is that the use of natural resources or primary sources is still far too cheap compared to recycled products. during this pandemic, the price of oil is low, and so it's much more tempting to use, for example, fossil fuels to make plastics instead of using recycled plastics. a second major obstacle is the availability of high-quality, secondary or recycled materials that are also safe. our report addresses these two obstacles and tries to find a solution. first of all, we are trying to create a market for the use of recycled materials and to make sure that they have a good business plan in relation to the cheap primary raw materials. we can do this by means of legislation and regulation and by rewarding the use of recycled products. first, through legislation and regulation. we think it is very important that the environmental directive be extended, that you set a minimum for the amount of recycled material you use in your products and that this applies not only to european companies but to all companies selling their products on the european market. it is also important that governments set the example, that public procurement not only looks at price but also whether the product contains recycled material. we are also looking at whether we can also use market instruments to make it more cost-effective to use recycled raw materials. this could be done, for example, through carbon reward schemes or other market instruments. we also call for more investment in technologies to improve recycling. we also look at existing subsidies and taxes, and in addition we look at whether subsidies might have undesirable effects. for example, biomass is burned in incinerators with subsidies, whereas it could perhaps also be used to extract valuable raw materials. that's one aspect. the second obstacle: the availability of good quality recycled products. it is very important that the ecodesign directive also addresses this: we have to consider whether, when designing a product, we can actually recycle it properly in the end-of-life phase. there are still too many examples of products that use far too many different materials, for example in packaging, that you find different types of plastic or maybe even cardboard in different layers. when it becomes waste, it's very difficult to separate and reuse these different materials. a good collection and sorting system put in place by municipalities is very important. we call for learning from each other and for a harmonized system. it is also important that we check whether all waste streams are waste. there's no such thing as waste in my eyes. it is also the task of the european commission to come up with criteria as soon as possible to determine when waste is no longer waste and thus receives final waste status. finally, it's important that we have a good track and trace system, a european validated certification system for recycled products, so that you can be sure that it's safe and of good quality, and that you also come with an eco-label, so that people know that something is indeed a recycled product. there are many other issues which we are dealing with in this report, for example the global dimension. we are talking about the european union. but unfortunately, we don't have the time. perhaps that will come up in the debate later.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr huitema, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and the entire committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for this comprehensive report on the new circular economy action plan for a cleaner and more competitive europe. the report is very clear. there is an urgent need to move away from a linear model towards a circular economy. there is no more time for hesitation. the circular economy is a cornerstone of our transition to a sustainable economy and society. it is also a tool to create much—needed jobs and strengthen social inclusion. it is a positive agenda that brings benefits to our citizens and provides a range of business opportunities. it’s a triple win: for people, for the planet and for prosperity. we need a circular economy to achieve climate neutrality. recent studies show that half of greenhouse gas emissions and more than 90% of biodiversity loss and water stress at global level come from resource extraction and processing. this is worrying, in particular in the light of projections that material consumption may double in the next 40 years. today, recycling accounts only for 12% of eu raw material imports and, if we don’t act now, waste generation will rise by 70% by 2050. the action plan underlines the need to reduce our consumption footprint to bring it back within the planetary boundaries and to switch to an economic model that gives back to the planet more than it takes. your report strengthens the case for change. we already started the implementation of our plan last year with the commission proposal for a new batteries regulation. this proposal is truly ground-breaking. it covers, for the first time, the full lifecycle of a product and proposes a new toolbox for sustainability. this year, we will be rolling out the sustainable product policy framework, including the sustainable product policy legislative initiative, which will be presented at the end of the year. it will set requirements for products and lay out sustainability principles so that, among other things, products on the eu market last longer, are easier to repair and recycle and include recycled content. this sustainable product policy framework aims at reducing waste generation and creating lead markets for sustainable materials and products. it will reward businesses aiming to be frontrunners or who are already leading with climate neutral technologies. as fossil energy represents a fifth of all the material we use, it should also be noted that energy efficiency is vital to contribute to the goals to reduce both the material and carbon footprint of products. the commission will address, as a priority, certain key product value chains, such as textiles, electronics and packaging, to mention just some. next to ensuring that products produced or sold on the eu market become circular and sustainable, we also plan to empower consumers to that end. in close interconnection and coordination with product policy, we will present a legislative proposal to strengthen consumer rights and information and to tackle green claims. as regards end of life, a lot has already been done to improve recycling, but not all problems have been solved. we will work to prevent waste and to ensure that it is well managed. our citizens are worried about harmful landfills, litter and microplastics, and about dumping waste in countries that cannot deal with it. the commission will take action to ensure that the eu does not export its waste challenges to third countries. the review of the waste shipment regulation will have a key role to play in improving the internal circulation of waste and restricting exports of waste that have harmful environmental and health impacts in third countries or can be treated domestically within the eu. this brings me to the international dimension and global value chains. we are working together with the united nations environment programme and the united nations industrial development organization to set up an alliance on the circular economy and resource efficiency. this alliance will provide global impetus for the circular economy transition and enable us to advance this agenda together with key economies. as your report clearly states, going circular is now more important than ever. if we want to leave this economic crisis behind, we need more circular economy, not less. we need the circular economy to deliver a future that is digital, inclusive and green. to do this, we have to bring economic and environmental policies together and mobilise unprecedented investments. next generation eu will help us to do so. this instrument responds to the economic slowdown and addresses the environmental crisis, while increasing the resilience of our businesses, our citizens, our value chains and our global partners. this is particularly true for the circular economy. the circular economy and the european green deal agenda will remain central in shaping the economic reconstruction and the future of a climate neutral and competitive europe. the recent adoption of the eu’s long-term budget confirms this commitment. the commission is working to ensure that investeu also includes the circular economy as one of its areas of intervention along its investment windows. for the recovery and resilience facility, we stand ready to work closely with member states and to enhance opportunities for the green and digital agenda. innovation will play an important role in the new circular economy action plan. horizon europe will support novel, clean materials and products, new circular business models and technologies. it will also support large—scale demonstration of circular economy solutions in eu cities and regions. in conclusion, let me thank you again for your unwavering support in driving the transition towards a circular economy. it’s an agenda for today, for times of crisis and for the future, a shared agenda for the whole of europe and beyond. (applause)
the rapporteur of the itre committee. mr. chairman, the world is indeed facing an unprecedented resource crisis due to rapid population growth and an economic model that seeks growth at any cost. we're consuming resources at almost twice the rate the planet can create them. but the covid-19 crisis is providing us with a unique opportunity to make a fresh start. we need to move away from traditional economic paradigms that are based on endless and upward growth and turn to a circular model that is based on creating value for everyone on the planet. the transition to a circular economy will be systematic, deep and rooted. it has to be fair. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. to achieve this demanding transformation in decision-making processes, both citizens and entrepreneurs need to be involved, while circularity must be built into every part of production from design to execution. i am convinced that the circular economy should be a fundamental element of european and national industrial policies, while the national recovery and resilience plans of the member states must be based on growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, there’s only one planet earth and that’s why we’re here today to make laws that help the planet heal. it won’t be easy. it’s 50 years since the singer, marvin gaye, asked ‘where did all the blue skies go?’ and the question is more relevant today. we need a new relationship with our earth and we must all play our part in realising the circular economy. on the transport and tourism committee, we know the days of the internal combustion engine are numbered. we need to go electric, but a million electric cars won’t save the planet. we need to slow down, hear the birdsong and smell the flowers. we need to walk and cycle more and invest in public transport: modern trams and buses, shared and active mobility. the ecodesign directive must help us to achieve this. as aviation picks up again, let’s have fairer fares that encourage rail travel. where we need to do this is in this european year of rail. we also need to adopt europe’s eco label and eco-management and audit scheme to tackle waste. the planet deserves this.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, first of all well done to the rapporteur, jan, for all his good work on this report. it’s good that the report calls on the commission to propose targets to significantly reduced the eu’s material and consumption footprints by 2030 and bring them within planetary boundaries by 2050. emphasising an absolute reduction in resource use is really positive. there are positive statements on textiles and fast fashion, on the right to repair, on the need for legislative measures to halve food waste by 2030, and legislative measures to tackle planned obsolescence. however, both the commission’s plan and the report still fixate on gdp growth and consumer empowerment. gdp growth is dependent on perpetual endless resource extraction. under capitalism, progress is defined as an increase in the total quantity of commodities that we produce and consume each year. the aim of economies should be to satisfy the basic needs and well—being of all people within planetary boundaries, regardless if the economy grows or not. jason hickel’s new book less is more should be taught throughout classrooms right across europe.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her excellent contribution. this debate is on trafficking, but let’s be clear what we’re talking about today: modern day slavery. trafficking is nothing less than modern day slavery here in our europe. slavery that moves as much money as drugs, but instead moves young women into europe, and from east to west in europe. it is for this reason that i cannot understand why it is not at the very top of the european political agenda. modern day slavery in europe requires intense and persistent action to combat it, comprehensive action within the criminal justice agencies backed by adequate resources, member state cooperation – working hand-in-hand – and political commitment, permanent commitment, until it is eradicated. this is how we tackle modern slavery in europe. but what specific actions can we take? recognise prostitution as violence against women. as minister for justice in ireland, i introduced legislation that criminalises the buyer and not the seller of sex. this model puts pressure on traffickers. every member state should do that. introduce an eu criminal assets agency and follow the money. that’s what we have to do, a stand-alone directive on sexual exploitation. when women are violated consistently, we call this rape. to adequately combat this unique and horrific crime a stand-alone directive is needed. the criminal justice agencies must work closely together, tracking the gangs who carry out the trafficking. it’s long and painstaking work but it must be done and we must support victims. the horror stories are endless. we cannot stand for modern day slavery in our europe. we need to combat it with full force.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, this is one of the largest ever eu funding programmes, a programme that will be crucial in repairing the economic devastation we’ve suffered. the leadership shown from the commission in supporting member states economically has been unprecedented in both its scale and speed. but it’s not about repairing only, it’s about looking to the future. we need to constantly reinforce the message we want to build back better. that must be based on the key pillars of green, digital, but crucially, equality. i’m glad to see that the final agreement on the rrf has recognised the gender dimension of the covid crisis and the differential impact that the crisis has had on women. parliament wanted to go further. member states must now take this opportunity to enshrine gender equality targets in their national recovery plans. we must build back better by investing in the green economy, care infrastructure, digital literacy, sustainable finance for smes and invest in our cities, such as dublin, to make them more liveable. member states must reflect this in their national recovery plans, and the commission has a responsibility to ensure that governments build back better. let us use the crisis as an opportunity to build a green, digital and more inclusive economy. this is not just a social imperative, but... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i welcome the debate on the recovery and resilience facility, and there is no doubt the pandemic has caused untold damage to economies across the european union. so this particular facility is very welcome and i hope it’s ratified by member states and that it will have a meaningful impact in the key areas, the environment, climate and digitisation of our economies. but the significant challenge, of course, will be how we will decide in the next couple of years regarding the stability and growth pact and the review that it’s going through. the fact of the matter is we’ve suspended it at the present time so countries are able to access funding that, in the event of the stability and growth pact being brought back with the very strict criteria that underpin it, it could have a very damaging effect on individual member states and destabilise. so, clearly, i would suggest that over the next number of months, the review of the stability and growth pact takes into account the new challenges ahead of us in the time and not looking back retrospectively as well. the other key area, of course, is we do need to have a very mature debate in this parliament across all member states with regard to the issue of own resources if we are to ensure that this fund is underpinned with genuine funding capabilities into the future.
mr president, in europe, in the eu, we mourn half a million deaths from covid and 20 million cases. but as we grieve, we look to a recovery with decent jobs, clean air and climate action at its heart. eur 250 billion is in place to finance the social and green recovery. that’s a lot of money. but as chief brody said in jaws, you’re going to need a bigger boat. the rrf is that boat and we may need a bigger one. funding the renovation wave is crucial by retrofitting our public housing with insulation and ventilation. we want cosy homes, lower energy bills, a sense of hygge. on transport, we should boost bus and rail, modernising and electrifying. public transport is invaluable to our citizens and cannot become a victim of the pandemic. walking and cycling must also be funded. we need to be active and these modes clean the air, improve road safety and take pressure off our health services. a real win—win. in conclusion, from the rue de la loi in brussels to the quays of the river liffey in dublin, we can and we must make our cities greener, cleaner and safer for all.
madam president, the situation in poland is very bleak and utterly inhumane. we have a government that seeks to discard the rule of law and human rights, a government that thinks they have a monopoly on what the truth is, a government that persecutes their own people, advocating for ‘lgbti-free’ zones and a government that believes they can control women. i’m pretty sure if it wasn’t for free movement and the european union, poles would be applying for asylum in many eu countries, persecuted at home. a safety net provided by the eu for what is a european shame. ironic. the absolutist approach of banning abortion entirely shows no compassion for women nor for their bodily integrity or faith in them to make their own decisions. mr kaczynski, are you so afraid of polish women that you seek to keep them under your control? pregnancy can be a joyous and happy occasion, but it can also be complex. and as humans, as dignified citizens, we must understand that complexity, and have flexibility for the circumstances that are not clear cut, like fatal foetal abnormality – where a much-longed-for child cannot survive. are you so afraid of women that you want to put them through the trauma of giving birth to a child that cannot survive? what made you and the polish state the sole arbiter of moral decisions? i believe the people of poland will win the day.
madam president, may i say at the outset that the ban on abortion in poland is a breach of basic fundamental human rights. it’s an attack on women and it limits their choice to make decisions in their interests. i have no doubt that abortions will continue, but they may be exported from poland, and i just want to say at the outset that i fundamentally believe that women have to have this choice, and it should be a choice available in every country. in the context of poland, what the government has decided to do is effectively to force polish women to go abroad, force young polish girls to access abortion pills on the internet and use them in the privacy of their own home without medical supervision, maybe bleeding for hours in a bathroom, unable or unsure of what will happen to them in the future. so i urge the polish government to look and decide to change this ban on abortion because it is fundamentally putting polish women at risk. i condemn the government’s attitude to this and i support the women and girls of poland in their protest to ensure their basic human rights and values in poland as well.
no intermission, the floor is divided.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i say to mr borrell: i reiterate my position delivered to you before this unfortunate visit. i maintain this position, of course. you decided, under the influence of major member states, markus ederer –considered to be a so-called russia-understanding politician – and advisors within the council and the commission, to go there and were led into a trap carefully prepared by sergei lavrov. you decided to do this against the advice of countries of my region and politicians in the european parliament over political divisions. you, by this trip, actually strengthened the regime in the run-up to a parliamentary election and you denied a trace of hope for the heavily-fighting russian opposition. you communicated your strong messages eye to eye, allowing lavrov to deliver his lies and arrogance to millions of people all over the world, also seeing your humiliation in this effect. we know that you achieved something, that is to boost your personal position, because your personal position in attempts to reinvigorate the jcpoa is well known. in this course of events, you decided to consult with moscow rather than the us, and during this endeavour you allowed lavrov to actually offend our allies and our friends like ukraine and others. it was a really bad mistake. you have to... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, listening to the relentless russiaphobia in this place, why are people surprised that russia sees no point in engaging with the eu? i’m as happy as anybody else to stand up for anybody’s rights, including navalny’s. but let’s be honest about him. he’s a vicious, anti—immigrant racist with maybe four percent of the support, rallying hundreds and thousands in cities of millions – hardly a mass movement. we wouldn’t be discussing him at all if he’d been arrested anywhere else other than in russia. meanwhile, julian assange has been incarcerated for almost ten years for exposing us war crimes. we can’t mention his name. tomorrow, pablo hasél, a catalan rapper, is going to prison for his lyrics. where is the call to sanction spain? tomorrow, 62-year-old clare grady is going to prison in west virginia for her role in the non-violent plowshares action against trident. where is the demand to break off links with the us, or the outcry about the hundreds of people arrested in this city on a protest a week ago? nowhere – because this isn’t about human rights. this is a geopolitical agenda against russia, fuelled by a military industrial complex who need an enemy to justify their millions. of course, you’re right to go to russia; we should be engaged in dialogue, not war. (noise)
in writing. we may differ on whether and to what extent the visit to moscow was politically and diplomatically opportune in the circumstances, but what we saw and heard in moscow was very disturbing. the fate of alexei navalny is very sensitive, because it touches us at the heart of the values we cherish, but there are many more issues in our relations with russia that concern us. i have always been in favour and will continue to be of a two-track policy in our relations with countries such as russia: dialogue where possible and action where necessary. we must continue to look to strategic partnerships with this country, but not in a way that undermines our self-respect and our credibility. sanctions and other measures are back on the agenda now, but above all i would like to call for us to speak with one voice. unity of purpose is far more important than a blame game that divides us internally. i look forward with interest to the debate and the decisions of our heads of government at the european council in march.
in writing. mr president, the visit of the eu high representative for foreign affairs josep borrell to moscow was a complete failure. the commission has also been informed by the european parliament and the council that it intends to submit a proposal to the council for a decision on the renewal of the eu guarantee to the european investment bank. this was not only reckless, but completely unprofessional. the real problem with this situation, however, is the russian operation. at the same time as borrell was visiting moscow, russia announced it was expelling german, swedish and polish diplomats. russia justified the expulsions by participating in opposition demonstrations. the basis is false and the eu should respond to what has happened in a united way. germany, sweden and poland have already announced diplomatic sanctions and other eu countries should join the same front. this would send a clear message to moscow that the union is united in the face of this situation and that the humiliation of borrell was not an attempt to break up the eu into internal strife. i also support targeted additional sanctions against those linked to the authoritarian russian regime and the suspension of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline. the nord stream 2 project directly contradicts the eu's strategic objective of reducing dependence on individual energy-supplying countries. the pipeline increases the eu's dependence on russian gas supplies and threatens the eu's internal market. it is bad in every way, including from the point of view of energy policy. i hope that the german leadership in particular will reconsider its position on the project. i think that the whole tube should be left unopened, but at least taking a break is absolutely necessary in the present situation.
in writing. it is quite clear that your visit to moscow, mr borela, did not reflect the true position of this parliament, the european union or, more specifically, russia's regional neighbours. you did not express a categorical condemnation of mr navalny's arrest, did not criticise the putin regime and did not respect any of the values of the european union. mr borela, you did not object when mr lavrov criticized and accused the leaders of the european union. i agree with many of my colleagues that you should resign immediately, as you have shown that you are incapable of fulfilling your duties. we cannot have a high representative (european union foreign affairs chief) who is unable to speak out strongly for the values of the european union and to work in the interests of the member states.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, yes, the humanitarian and political situation in yemen deserves more attention, much more than we have paid to it. the war has been raging for almost six years with a devastating impact, 24 million people – which means 80% of the yemeni population – are in need of humanitarian assistance and more than four million are displaced. beyond this terrible humanitarian crisis, the war in yemen has become a source of instability in the whole region and we need to take decisive action to avert a mass famine. the situation can still deteriorate if restrictions on imports of basic commodities and humanitarian access persist. the covid-19 pandemic has already exacerbated the humanitarian situation in yemen. and additionally, the safer oil tanker stranded in the red sea is a ticking time bomb that could cause an environmental disaster. since the start of the conflict six years ago, the european union has not only made diplomatic efforts, but also provided nearly eur 1 billion to yemen, as a response to the crisis through humanitarian and development assistance. you can be sure that we will keep working to support the only way out of this crisis, which is a political settlement for peace and stability. to this end, we fully back the efforts of the united nations special envoy, martin griffiths, in support of a ceasefire and a political solution. current prospects for a rapid breakthrough in yemen are certainly, and unhappily, slim. the latest attacks by ansar allah showed how challenging the situation remains. but at the same time, we feel a growing sense of urgency in the international community to find a way out. the latest announcement from the biden administration, ending support for saudi-led offensive operations, on the appointment of a special yemen envoy, show a genuine interest from our partners to address the crisis. we also welcome the announced revocation of the designation of ansar allah as a foreign terrorist organisation. this designation could have catastrophic consequences in the context of yemen, as the country is highly dependent on commercial food imports. yes, it has to be very clear that to declare an entity to be a terrorist organisation can create a blockage on trade, because nobody will dare to face us sanctions. and this is one example that has to be criticised about some decisions of the outgoing trump administration. we strongly condemn the 13 december attack on the new government. the unprecedented mission of eight european ambassadors to aden, that demonstrates our strong diplomatic support. we are ready to push for a concerted action to unlock the stalled process and to nudge the parties to implement a permanent cease fire and begin political talks. i am confident that progress towards peace in yemen will also help de-escalate the tense situation in the wider gulf region. i will personally continue engagement on all these issues, along with commissioner for crisis management, my colleague janez lenarčič and other partners, and i am looking forward to working with you on this critical file. six years of war, one of the biggest humanitarian crisis in the world has to stop and we in the european union have an important role to play in it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, yemen has been experiencing one of the world's worst humanitarian crises for years. today, 400,000 children are fighting for their very survival. families' income, their opportunities have been virtually eliminated. there is widespread food shortage, with millions without access to drinking water, fuel, and heating. the civil war has claimed more than 233,000 lives. there is no single problem that can be singled out, all of which are simultaneously making normal life in yemen impossible. in the midst of covid, this has turned the country into a living hell. we cannot ignore the fact that the country has been ruled for years by extremist terrorist organizations that persecute religious minorities. the situation of the epidemic has further worsened the vulnerability of christians and other religious minorities. according to the humanitarian organization open doors, local officials simply refuse to hand over aid if it is christian. this violation of humanitarian principles - i stress - is not a religious issue, but a human rights issue. the union simply cannot tolerate this. since the union has neither an army nor decisive influence on military processes, as mr borrell rightly pointed out here, it is necessary to use instruments in which it has a great deal of experience and a long tradition. europe must not simply be heroic and threatening, but must strengthen the effectiveness of humanitarian action. it is a humanitarian response, designed with the local people, tailored to real needs. this is a key issue for preserving the credibility of the european union in the region.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr high representative, today's debate is timely and i am glad that my group has taken the initiative. we may be at a turning point in the tragic situation in yemen, a country that has been plagued by a bloody civil war since 2015 and hit by a cholera epidemic, covid-19 and famine. the situation on the ground, in all parts of the country, is dramatic and it is no coincidence that what yemenis are experiencing on a daily basis has been described repeatedly by the united nations as the worst humanitarian crisis in the last thirty years. in this context, we can only be relieved that the new us administration has decided to change course from the disastrous regional policy led by donald trump and that it has already taken important decisions. in this connection, mr high representative, i would very much like us europeans to act together and to make clear our position and our determination to do everything in our power to ensure that a solution to the conflict is capable of putting an end to the ongoing humanitarian crisis. in the resolution we have drawn up and which we are going to vote on, we have stated simple and clear concepts: first, in the chaos in yemen, saudi arabia and the uae bear a heavy responsibility. without wishing to deny the specific responsibilities of all yemeni actors, their war with western weapons and the deadly raids of their planes have caused immense damage to the population, especially the most vulnerable citizens. while strongly supporting the peace process under way, i believe it is our duty to continue to insist on an effective arms embargo on these two countries, to support the referral of the situation in yemen to the international criminal court so that no actor involved can go unpunished for the war crimes committed on yemeni soil and in the meantime to consider that the leaders most directly involved may be subject to the measures provided for in the entirely new human rights sanctions regime adopted by the council.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the un humanitarian coordinator is clear in his view that the people of yemen are being starved deliberately. the un funding call for 2020 was 40% underfunded, as you know, and this has brought yemen to the brink of famine. but it’s not just a matter of funding. as you know, starvation has been used as a weapon of war. the united nations security council called this out very clearly: that it is a breach of international humanitarian law and it is a war crime. the resolution today calls on the eu to do three things: to contribute to a sustainable political process, to ensure adequate funding on the humanitarian side, and also to join the war against impunity because starvation is not the only war crime that is being committed in yemen. there are multiple examples, catalogued by the yemen data project, of assaults on civilian infrastructure, including hospitals, schools, markets and even weddings, and this cannot go unpunished. this resolution is also unequivocal in calling for an end to arms sales. the eu common position sets out eight very clear criteria that must be satisfied in order to allow arms sales to third countries, and very few of those criteria are met in relation to arms sales that are used in yemen. i think we have to be absolutely clear about that. conflicts in the 21st century are very complex and long running. mr borrell, you’re very fortunate in team europe here, the humanitarian community, the development community and the full weight of the diplomatic community. we’re adding our political voice today and we hope that 2021 will not be another lost year for yemen.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the last line of yemen’s national anthem is ‘the world will not see a guardian upon my nation’. since reunification, foreign powers have been trying to carve up, exploit and pauperise yemen and its people. sana’a dutifully followed the imf and world bank reform programmes for two decades until the people of yemen had had enough. obama helped install the puppet hadi, promised change in elections. what yemen got was more austerity, privatisation and land grabs by foreign investors. ansar allah put a stop to the plunder in 2014. they negotiated a deal with hadi and others, making elections the top priority. but the saudi—led coalition went to war to stop the prospects of peace, power-sharing and independence in yemen. with western help and barely a word from the usual human rights defenders, they killed hundreds of thousands of yemeni people and committed brutal crimes on a daily basis. they are still at it and yemen is still resisting. you say you care about democracy. why don’t you stop the genocide, stop the plundering of yemen and allow elections to take place? who would win? well, that’s none of our business. it’s for the people of yemen to decide that, not the eu, saudi arabia or the uae, not the us, not russia, not china or anyone else. it’s justice they need more than aid. and for too long, we’ve turned a blind eye and the yemenis are not for lying down.
madam president, mr high representative, the humanitarian situation in myanmar, in burma, as you would say in english, is absolutely deplorable. the military coup is not only a break with the limited democracy that existed in the country, it is a return to the nightmare of systematic human rights violations that the military over decades committed throughout the territory. it was no longer enough to be concerned, even in a limited democratic environment, with the human rights of the rohingya minority, which were never fully guaranteed by either the military or the democratic government of mrs aung san suu kyi. the truth is that this danger and this risk now extends to all the inhabitants of this country, without exception. that is why we must show our full solidarity with the people of myanmar and we must join forces with our global and regional partners, namely japan, india and of course the united kingdom and the united states, and possibly also with asean to exert pressure on the military to return to constitutional regularity. but there is one actor on which the european union has the instruments to act and which nobody has yet spoken about, and that is the elephant in the room that is absent, china. we are now with the investment agreement on china also at our negotiating table, also at our execution table, it will perhaps be time to put pressure on china to use all its known influence over the burmese military to stop the constitutional breakdown and return sovereignty to the burmese people.
madam president, i would like to thank you. his excellency the ambassador borell! it has been a dark week for myanmar, which is now once again ruled by the brutal military junta. for the fourth day in a row, brave people gather in several cities to demonstrate. protesters have been met by water cannons with suspected poisoned water. shots were also reportedly fired, with an unknown number of people injured or killed. the world has rightly condemned the illegal seizure of power by the junta. the eu must now do everything in its power to ensure that myanmar returns swiftly to democratic rule, while supporting the ongoing popular protests, including condemning any attempt to silence or intimidate protesters.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, it has been an interesting debate where some points have been put on the table and some issues may require an answer on my part. should the european union not use or trigger the everything but arms (eba) withdrawal procedure? the grave situation and the grave regression in human rights caused by the military coup – if not now, when? some of you have asked that. but look, the eba withdrawal is certainly a powerful instrument, which can foster positive change in partner countries. with myanmar, it was actually delivering some, although limited, positive results, notably on social and labour rights. but the power of this instrument lies in the threat of the withdrawal – not in the withdrawal itself but in the threat, for example, in the process of monitoring before the actual decision is initiated. but take care because the eba is a blunt instrument. inasmuch as it affects the economy or at least the economic sector widely, even if used to cover only some specific tariff lines, it is not the best suited to be applied surgically to target specific individuals, companies or business interests. in the case of myanmar, the aim is to target military interests as they are responsible for the current situation, not the whole economy. according to the information available, military interests are focused on sectors that would not be affected by eba preferences. in fact, most of myanmar’s exports under the eba regime are in the clothing sector, which employs more than 500 000 workers, mostly female workers, poor people. if we take this decision, they will suffer, not the military. in sum, withdrawing the eba preferences would hit myanmar’s economy hard, putting half a million low skilled workers at risk of poverty and leaving military interests almost untouched. is that what we want? no. so take care when you ask to use some elements of our toolbox. another issue that has been raised by honourable members is how the european union should review its policy towards myanmar if the legitimate government is not restored. it’s a legitimate question but, at present, our policy has two short—term objectives. let’s concentrate on them: the immediate and unconditional release of those jailed because of the coup and the development of some form of dialogue. that’s what we should be focusing on. the policy options i outlined in my intervention are aimed at driving change in the short term in order to avoid the military government becoming a fait accompli and it becoming impossible to get rid of them. there have been other military rules in myanmar and these previous military rules lasted over five decades – five decades, 50 years, half a century – despite strong sanctions from almost the entire world. this shows that sometimes sanctions don’t work. we have to avoid repeating this situation. our key objective remains to restore dialogue. incidentally, the need for dialogue was also the key message given by the respected cardinal bo, and it’s clear that the current crisis emerged from the military’s reluctance to cede power to the civilian side, but also from the breakdown of all channels of dialogue between the civilian and the military. dialogue has to be restored. there are many people who believe that dialogue is bad and you should not talk with the bad people. well, sometimes you have to talk with the bad people precisely because they are bad people. if the situation does not change, we will reassess the situation and re—examine our toolbox, having in mind the same principles i outlined before: be strong to affect change, and be careful to avoid undue impact on the general population and the most vulnerable. on the third issue, ms rookmaker asked me if i believe it’s good to coordinate with the us. yes, for sure. in myanmar we, the european union, cannot seriously pretend to create the dynamics of change without coordination with the big powers, and the big powers there are the us, china and asean. from the outset, we, the european union and our external action service and i, have been striving to coordinate this action and consult with as many relevant parties as possible. naturally, we were closely involved in working with our g7 partners, but not only the traditional ones: the us, the uk, canada, norway and australia. we also wanted to engage with other relevant stakeholders – india, china, asean – and, in the case of the rohingya crisis, the military coup in myanmar is, first and foremost, a regional security issue. in addition to the humanitarian crisis, it’s a regional security issue and regional countries have the right and the duty to be first in line to respond. but this response has not been overwhelming. china, as you could have expected, did not even qualify the event as a coup, but a major government reshuffle. a reshuffle – you know, they change the government and it’s just a reshuffle. asean was not able to reach consensus on any statement and resorted to a statement of the chair. i know that sometimes it is difficult to get an agreement and it is the chair who has to take responsibility, but is not the same thing. brunei, for example, with very toned down language, was in in fact agreeing with myanmar. in asean the principle of non—interference in the internal affairs of other countries prevails. there were many other issues. i would be delighted to continue answering them, going deeply into the subject. for example, should we, the european union and the member states, recall our ambassadors from myanmar? yes, it would send a strong signal, but i do not favour recalling our ambassadors. it would cut our channels of communication at a moment where we should facilitate dialogue. once again, don’t lose the possibility of keeping dialogue open, even with the evil. it would also reduce our capacity to appraise the situation on the ground and our ability to gather information, but this is something that has to be checked permanently in order to fine-tune our tools to the situation. there are many issues. why do we, the european union, only deploy a small electoral mission instead of a fully-fledged observation mission? you know how important our electoral observation missions are and how much i praise the work that we are doing there. the civil servants of this house and the members of this house engage in these kinds of activities. however, the covid—19 pandemic and the strict lockdown in myanmar prevented the deployment of a fully—fledged exploratory mission, which, as you know, is a prerequisite for the observation mission. but we were nevertheless able to engage with all relevant stakeholders and they are finalising their report. our reporter will very much take into account what is happening in rakhine state. the elections where they are open to the participation of the rohingya and to the rakhine people, but the actual result would have most likely further eroded the share of the military—backed party, if they could participate fully. in a nutshell, we have been a strong supporter of myanmar’s democratic transition in the last 10 years. yes, we had strong disagreements with the civilian government, notably after the 2017 events against the rohingya, but we will not stop advocating for the return of the government and for holding the perpetrators of the worst human rights violations accountable. we are calling for national democracy to be upheld by myanmar. with all its shortcomings, myanmar remains a positive experiment in the region and we have to help them by acting strongly, quickly and in coordination with all our partners. thank you very much for your attention and thank you for holding this debate on something which is far away from us geographically but, once again, close to our minds and principles if we really want to be considered an institution that has human rights as the basis of its behaviour.
i have received six motions for resolutions* tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. ____________________ * see minutes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 11 february 2021.
the next item is the debate on the report by michael gahler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu association agreement with ukraine (2019/2202(ini)) (a9-0219/2020). i will just remind you that there will be no catch—the—eye procedure, and no blue cards will be accepted.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. (the speaker is speaking in a language which is not an official language.) ukraine has chosen the european path. how supportive you are. the association agreement has established a comprehensive cooperation which is gradually producing results. if the vast majority of ukrainian citizens are to be believed, this path is irreversible. only the prospect of a european way of life holds the promise of stable democracy, a fair rule of law and personal economic and social progress. strong civil society and genuine political reformers are doing their utmost to fulfil the aspirations of their citizens. the challenges are formidable. from the outside, russia is the constant aggressor with the illegal occupation and annexation of crimea and the conquest and occupation of parts of the donetsk and luhansk oblasts, which is accompanied by a ceasefire that does not deserve the name. just last saturday, two more ukrainian soldiers were killed. we are now mourning the deaths of over 13 000 civilians and military personnel, well over a million displaced persons and a largely lawless population subjected to the arbitrary rule of russian-controlled henchmen in the occupied territories. within ukraine, russia is engaged in a multifaceted, overt and covert hybrid warfare with allies in politics, business and the media. i would therefore like to make this point very clearly. there is a lot to suggest that the closure of three television stations owned by a straw man controlled by mr medvedchuk is not about curtailing the diversity of opinion, but about preventing the continuing destabilisation of the media in the interests and on behalf of russia. there is enough room and grounds in ukraine for criticism of the president, the government and the verkhovna rada. for this, ukrainian democracy does not need media platforms that want to hand over the country to the revisionist interests of the kremlin. ukraine has come a long way since the revolution of dignity. our support, including our financial support, is well-meaning. we also provide a wide range of human resources for consultancy in a wide range of economic and administrative fields. our aim is simply to establish a democratic state which functions normally in accordance with the law. there is a very broad, fundamental support for this policy here in the european parliament. true friends support each other, but they also tell each other the truth and criticize each other when things get tough. real reformers know that we give good advice not for our own benefit, but because we want to strengthen them and contribute to their success - even to defend against their enemies. there is an urgent need to take action to combat corruption. we support nabu, the national anti-corruption bureau, and similar independent bodies. they must not be hindered in their work. we support the work of the high anti-corruption court, whose judgments must set an example for a sooner rather than later fundamentally reformed judiciary, including the public prosecutor's offices. the high council of justice needs to be reformed, as does the high qualification commission of judges, which selects new judges and assesses those in office. without it, the whole reform process can be blocked. the system of electronic declaration of assets is effective and must not be overturned by a constitutional court that works against the reforms. decentralisation, combined with the reform of local government, is on its way to becoming a great success story. it must not be jeopardised by unclear hierarchies or competing responsibilities. the liberalisation of trade in agricultural land opens up a great potential for rural development, while also developing the downstream economy and deepening the value chain through small and medium-sized enterprises. if the second stage of health reform fails, it is not so much the concept of the reform as the particular interests that want to channel certain financial flows into their pockets. environmental protection must be an instrument to preserve and use ukraine's great natural wealth in a prudent and sustainable way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's forestry policy is not disrupted by the development of new species. mr president, the olympic games, like in russia, which fill the coffers of oligarchs and only burn a fire of straw, do not belong to svydivez and not to borshova. ladies and gentlemen, our report contains many more details in which we want to go into the association in greater depth. i would therefore like to thank you for the good and trusting cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, my colleagues on the foreign affairs and trade committees, the parliamentary association committee and other committed members and officials in the european parliament and also in the verkhovna rada. this commendation goes on behalf of the support group for ukraine and the foreign service. we are all working together for a good cause, a stable, democratic and european ukraine. (the speaker is speaking in a language which is not an official language.)
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank mr gahler for his comprehensive report. the eu has stood by ukraine since russia began its military aggression and illegally annexed crimea in 2014. ukraine remains high on the european agenda. we continue to provide political, financial and technical assistance as support for its reform agenda to build a more resilient economy. we have stepped up support, especially during this crisis, where the eu is showing solidarity with ukraine during the pandemic. our support for ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders has been steadfast since the aggression began in the country’s southern and eastern regions. the ceasefire that has been largely holding – although with a recent spike in violence, but it has been largely holding since july – is an undeniable breakthrough. it brings tangible improvements on the ground. however, the overall pace of progress towards a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict remains too slow. while ukraine must be praised for its constructive approach and president zelensky’s efforts, russia must reciprocate. the eu expects russia to use its considerable influence over the armed formations that it backs, as there is no place in 21st century europe for using force to alter the boundaries of a sovereign country. enforcement of our sanctions in response to the undermining of ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity by russia is consistent and unwavering. sectoral sanctions were rolled over in december 2020 by the european council. the duration of these sanctions against russia remains linked to complete implementation of the minsk agreements. the individual sanctions regime has only become wider over the years, in response to further russian undermining of ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. the sanctions regime targeting the crimean peninsula is also consistently enforced. we have also put a new sanctions regime in place that allows the council to impose asset freezes and travel bans on persons it deems to have committed serious human rights violations. if member states call for it we are ready to make use of the eu global human rights sanctions regime against russia. the eu stands firmly by ukraine on its reform path, providing unprecedented financial and technical support. we are supporting ukraine with a new market, a financial assistance programme worth eur 1.2 billion to help mitigate the economic impact of the pandemic. its first tranche of eur 600 million was disbursed in early december. the eu ukraine association agreement is an unique platform for ukraine to advance on its reform path, bringing our economies and societies closer together. the agreement is producing results. our bilateral trade saw many years of uninterrupted growth stimulated by the deep and comprehensive free trade area. the pandemic set back this development last year, but we hope to return to positive tendencies soon. the agreement has an immense potential, and the eu is ready to explore all possibilities to continue enhancing our sectoral cooperation and economic integration. as you rightly indicated in the report, implementing the agreement, including its deep and comprehensive free trade area, must remain a top priority. we will discuss the next steps for developing our bilateral relations in the post—pandemic period at this week’s eu—ukraine association council. tomorrow, prime minister shmyhal and i will also launch the process for review of trade liberalisation for goods, which is foreseen under article 29 of the association agreement, five years after its entry into force. the eu also stands by ukraine in fighting the pandemic. we have reoriented several ongoing and future assistance programmes, with more than eur 190 million going to ukraine to help meet its covid—19—related needs. the eu has also deployed the civil protection mechanism to transfer equipment and supplies to ukraine. in addition, we are exploring options to help ukraine to receive early access to vaccines. as part of the covax programme, ukraine will receive 170 000 doses of the pfizer vaccine in february and 2.2 million to 3.7 million doses of the astrazeneca vaccine during the first half of the year. we are looking forward to see vaccinations start in ukraine this month. however, we are concerned about the impact of russian disinformation and about the vaccination process in ukraine. we are ready to assist in the fight against this disinformation and vaccine scepticism. parliament’s report strikes a very fine and accurate balance in praising achievements and acknowledging shortcomings. it rightly highlights that ukraine has delivered many important reforms over the past years. these have all been hard fought and ukraine’s leadership should be praised. however, i share your assessment that, despite notable progress, widespread corruption continues to hamper ukraine’s reform process. its key institutions must have strong and independent leadership and a chance to do their work free of political, economic or other interference. as the report says, smuggling only benefits criminals and oligarchs. it must be stopped. for this, it is vital that national anti—corruption bureau be fully independent. over the years, the bureau has demonstrated its effectiveness and produced tangible results. the fight against corruption is a core condition for eu macro—financial support. recent developments in the rule of law and anti-corruption show that comprehensive judiciary reform is long overdue. the venice commission and a g7 roadmap complementing the eu delegation’s constant advice to authorities and politicians give clear guidance on what has to be done. we recognise the complexity of the task. from the start, russian interference was designed to destabilise, divide and weaken ukraine. so the best response is to stay united and keep working towards the prosperity and stability that come from sound economic policies. the eu is ready to support ukraine in doing this. we urge all reform—oriented political factions to come together and give a clear signal of ukraine’s determination to make its reform path irreversible. this will be one of the main messages that i will convey to prime minister shmyhal tomorrow. the eu is helping ukraine to create the right conditions for prosperity and peace. ukraine has our support – political, financial and technical.
before continuing with the debate i will now move to the results of today’s first voting session.
we now continue with the debate on the report by michael gahler on the eu association agreement with ukraine (a9-0219/2020).
the rapporteur is the international trade committee. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the free trade agreement promises to increase our trade with ukraine. but unfortunately, our partner has been trying to circumvent the treaty for some time now, using a variety of legal and illegal tricks. their creativity hasn't diminished since the infamous "batman chickens". since then, there have been reports of various tariff measures, whether on wood, roses or fertilisers. some attempts were thwarted in time, but the latest one succeeded: ukraine has imposed a protective duty on imports of polymeric materials since december. he's doing this despite the fact that it's against the fta and the wto rules. ukraine calls this policy "smart protectionism". in my opinion, however, this is nothing less than a breach of contract. ukraine must understand that bilateral relations are based on trust and that fair compliance with the agreements is essential. it must also be said that our eastern partner has repeatedly yielded to reason. because the commission is a strong advocate of the eu's interests on trade issues. the eu should follow this strategy in political matters, and not tolerate atrocities against national minorities, such as the hungarians living there.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the report on the implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement underlines that ukraine is an important geostrategic and political partner of the eu, which has committed itself to implementing reforms that meet the copenhagen criteria, the principles of democracy, and that ukraine respects fundamental and minority rights. the development of the last few years unfortunately shows that, in addition to the covid pandemic and the economic situation, there are serious problems to which the eu should respond decisively. i am thinking here of the spread of extremist views and methods, the restriction of media and freedom of opinion, the unprecedented political pressure and constant intimidation of the transcarpathian hungarian community. the excesses of the ukrainian security service against hungarian organizations and their leaders, or the death list of the extremist mirotorec site. the transcarpathian hungarian community has been subject to linguistic, educational, representative rights for years, and is treated as an enemy, even though the current minority law and the constitution guarantee wide-ranging rights for national minorities. the hungarian community in ukraine wants nothing more than to preserve their existing rights, to participate as partners in the creation of legislation affecting minorities and to live peacefully in their homeland. for years, the hungarian government has been providing it with a lot of support, which also proves that the transcarpathian hungarian community is a bridge not only between the two countries, but also towards the eu. it is important that the report includes amendments that show the hungarian minority's perspective and i hope that these important issues will be included in the agenda of the eu-ukraine association council.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this report underscores that ukraine remains one of the european union’s most important partners in the eastern partnership region, and also the most important recipient of eu financial assistance. we are encouraged by the willingness to implement important reforms and by the strong public support for them among the ukrainian people. we are, however, also extremely worried by the implications of the recent constitutional court ruling, which annulled key pieces of the country’s anti-corruption agenda. the fight against corruption must remain the focus of all political activities in ukraine. if it’s not successful, then all other reforms that aim to improve the standard of living of all ukrainians are in danger. this is why the socialists and democrats in the european parliament will continue to lend our support to all of those in the verkhovna rada who want to eliminate corruption from public life. we call on all parties to work together to reinstate the anti-corruption measures that have been struck down by the constitutional court and to adopt and implement additional legislation that would protect ukraine from actors, both internal and external, who are hostile to these much needed reforms.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the 7th anniversary of the euromaidan revolution marks a tremendous advancement in eu-ukraine relations. bilateral commitments enshrined in the association agreements guide our cooperation, which already delivers much needed changes, and provide an ambitious agenda for future relations and deeper partnership. the euromaidan anniversary also marks a grave period of russian military aggression against ukraine, which is continuing to bring suffering and the loss of many more than 13 000 lives. in our relations with ukraine, the immediate priority is a common fight against covid-19. medium-term priorities should focus on socioeconomic reforms and economic development in ukraine. the long-term aim is achieving the eu membership perspective for ukraine. it is in our interest to further advance a gradual economic integration with ukraine by creating a common economic space and providing a reliable basis for economic growth and mutually beneficial trade relations. equally important is for the european union to do its utmost to support ukraine’s sovereignty, including its information sovereignty, and to help build resilience to hostile influence from third countries. on this occasion i thank the rapporteur, michael gahler, and all shadows for the excellent work and one step forward in eu-ukraine’s future relations.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in 2019, we discovered that ukraine is circumventing the 50,000-ton import quota for chicken breasts with a cheap trick. they imported the chicken breasts with a small piece of bone on them as other chicken parts which are not subject to import quotas the so-called batman cut. when i visited ukraine in 2019, i saw entire regions where groundwater was so contaminated with nitrates that it was no longer drinkable, that even the poorest sections of the population did not go to work in the chicken factories, because they noticed that the people who work there got very sick very quickly and very badly. i've seen a whole valley full of chicken manure where the sauce, the black sauce, just ran into the stream, just into the forest. the association agreement provides for the establishment of a veterinary inspection system for the production and placing on the market of products of animal origin, including the establishment of a veterinary inspection system for the production and placing on the market of products of animal origin. and to this day - i checked yesterday at the permanent representation in kiev - none of these reports have come in. this is about hygiene and animal welfare. it is difficult enough for european producers to keep up with dumping wages of eur 150 or with farms like mhp, which had 378 000 hectares under the plow in 2019. it is difficult enough to maintain european production here. i am speaking on behalf of my group here today: we are for friendship with ukraine, we are for the european path with ukraine. but one thing must be clear: anyone who participates in the european market must also abide by the common rules.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, (inaudible passage) we have to make efforts though to reverse the really bad impression made by mr borrell’s visit to moscow. lavrov was given the platform to deliver all anti-ukraine clichés publicly. the best way out is to immediately stop nord stream 2, maintain and extend sanctions and, most importantly, for mr borrell to undertake quick visits to kiev and tbilisi. these are the capitals to consult on eu-russia policy, before the council, rather than moscow.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the reforms mandated by the eu-backed loan to ukraine in 2014 included a cultural deregulation intended to benefit foreign agri—business. more recently, western solidarity with ukraine saw covid-19 weaponised in a new round of disaster capitalism. in june last year, both the imf and world bank covid relief package loans came with conditions on liberalisation of laws around the sale of state-owned land. we’ve recently seen how a network of private equity firms, like the new york-based nch capital, working through offshore tax havens and financed by the european bank for reconstruction and development, the dutch pension fund pggm, and a host of eu and us profiteers have targeted ukraine, leasing or buying up farms for next to nothing and aggregating them into large—scale us style grain and soybean farms. this is neo—colonialism, theft and exploitation. is it any wonder that the pro—russian party is battering zelensky’s party in the polls at the moment? if you don’t cop onto yourselves, you’ll have another coup to orchestrate soon enough.
madam president, if it were not for the commission's massive purchase of vaccines, many european countries - mine, for example - would not start receiving vaccines until germany or france had completed their vaccination processes, for lack of political weight or budget. maybe after the summer. the european decision to centralise the purchase of vaccines has saved us from a shameful competition for the price and the tragedy of not having enough in many countries to protect millions of europeans. when it came to criticising the frugal for being reluctant to use the recovery fund, however, voices were heard underlining this lack of solidarity. however, now that, if the buying consortium were to be broken up, the northern countries would not have any problems with supplies, but the southern countries would, our thanks to the von der leyen commission are not being heard as well. you only hear selfishness in the north and the south. another effect of covid-19, apparently, is nationalism. now that hungary is buying vaccines from russia on its own, that germany is planning to buy 600 million doses on the sidelines of the commission, that russia is trying to divide us by offering its sputnik to some yes and others no, that the uk has turned the vaccination process into the first political post-brexit pulse, that serbia is vaccinating faster than the european union thanks to the chinese, it is the worst time to show disunity. european solidarity is working and in a continent without borders only solidarity can save lives and economies. if we don't all get vaccinated, it's like no one got vaccinated.
president, madam president of the commission, we do not expect words but actions in pursuit of the objective of having 70% of the european population vaccinated by the summer. as the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, we should be able to do that. yet we are lagging behind, and canada, the united states, israel and the united kingdom are vaccinating faster. europe is under attack. you were right when you said this was not a sprint, but a marathon. i think, however, that in europe it is time for a sprint. we must increase our pace, increase production capacity, monitor supply and contract compliance more closely and renegotiate them if necessary. europe must deliver now. i would be very embarrassed if we were to be helped out of the fire by the russian sputnik vaccine. you still have my full support, madam president of the commission. we have no choice but to deal with this at european level. but the commission must be transparent and act in such a way that citizens know what they are getting.
president, madam president of the commission, cooperation is the strength of the european union. some may be faster, but together we can give all european citizens the best and safest vaccines. trust has to go up. i therefore ask that all contracts concluded by the commission be made transparent and public. this will increase support and therefore increase vaccination coverage. europe is not an island, however. the only way we can stop the pandemic is if the whole world is vaccinated, and that requires a huge number of vaccines. unfortunately, patents are currently blocking the mass production of vaccines. i would therefore ask you to stop referring to the covax initiative as a solution for vaccines in poorer countries; it's just a towel for the bleeding and it'll be too late. support the request by, among others, india to abolish property rights at wto level. after all, we're only safe if everyone is safe.
madam president, madam secretary of state, madam president of the commission, as elected representatives of the european citizens, of course the european union's action to have the vaccine for all europeans deserves our support and our thanks, and i say this personally to president von der leyen and commissioner kyriakides. there is, however, one clear point. we need more vaccines now. we need to acquire more vaccines and produce more vaccines urgently. and i say something here that is politically incorrect: if we have to pay more, let's pay more. there is an old portuguese saying: cheap is expensive. because if we don't pay now, we're going to pay a lot more in our savings and in lives that have no price. if the vaccine is here to stay, it is vital to ensure production and distribution in europe. not just for this emergency now, but for the next few years, and not just for this pandemic, but for other diseases that come in the future. that's what the health union is. the pandemic, from the first moment, from masks to ventilators, has taught us that we need to have production and distribution capacity within europe. this goes for medication, this goes for vaccines. and finally, i say to the commission: we will learn the lessons when we present the new schengen strategy. there's a lot of things to do in schengen that can save lives and that can save economies, and the pandemic was the best lesson about the reforms that we have to do.
madam president, for several months now, we have all been engaged in this fight against the virus, but let's face it, we are still the head of the steering wheel. i agree with many of my colleagues' demands, but i would add two elements. as a corollary to the concept of european health independence or autonomy, the idea of a europe of health has emerged, but it is still an idea. even if this is already succeeding in shaking up national prevention systems, the concept must now be strengthened. for example, if we agree that the ecdc is a good tool, we need to strengthen it in terms of resources and role. secondly, relations with the 'big pharma' must be seriously reviewed. it's unimaginable to witness the spectacle given by the big labs, with actors who sound so fake and especially for so long. at a time when our societies are facing over-mortality with all the anxiety that it represents, seeing ceos of laboratories lying, ergoting, focusing primarily on the amount of profits and dividends, like sanofi, continues to happen even if it is not surprising. you can be sure that parliament intends to play a part in this.
madam president, i would like to say to president von der leyen that, in her address this morning, she said, ‘the bottom line is mistakes were made in the process leading up to the decision to invoke article 16. i deeply regret that’. president von der leyen, i wish to acknowledge your regret, but i also need to ask you three questions. how was the decision arrived at, who made the decision, and why? and these are fundamental questions because we do need to put in place mechanisms to ensure that commissions in the future would not make similar mistakes. we are playing with a very sensitive issue on the island of ireland so i would greatly appreciate answers to those three questions: how, who and why? beyond that, i would also say that i very much support the concept of the european commission’s purchasing programme for vaccines. what we need to do now is to ensure that there is strong collaboration and cooperation between the pharmaceutical companies to enhance capacity across the euro area and the european union to ensure we have vaccines for our citizens and citizens in the covax programme as well. we also need to ensure that the authorisation programme is fast, effective and efficient, and that it cooperates with other international bodies in terms of assessing the efficacy of vaccines.
madam president, recently the commission made the grave mistake of almost invoking article 16 of the northern ireland protocol. president von der leyen, you said this morning that, in the end, you got it right. president, you did not get it right. what concrete steps will you put in place to assure the people of ireland, north and south, that the delicate situation on the island of ireland is never threatened like this again? yesterday, ombudsman emily o’reilly’s inquiry revealed alarming resource and information gaps in the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) in the crucial early weeks of the crisis. president, can you assure us the ecdc and similar agencies will be properly resourced? can you now guarantee us action and transparency in the distribution of vaccines not just throughout europe, but to the far reaches of the developing world? as we all say, no one is safe until everyone is safe.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, may i say at the outset, i welcome the opportunity to speak on this issue. i suppose we could talk forever with regard to the challenges that businesses face in terms of accessing credit and accessing capital. so any regulations that are changed in the terms of the mifid ‘quick fix’ and the prospectus regulation are welcome in this emergency climate. we are in an emergency situation. we have shrinking economies across europe, and we have companies that are crying out for cash injections and for access to capital. so i do welcome that. of course, the challenge is – and this probably wasn’t foreseen last year – that we are now a year into the covid pandemic and, while there is an end in sight, it is a long way away. from that perspective, i do believe that we have to be very creative from now until when we can start to unwind from the covid pandemic to ensure that there is capital, and liquidity and credit available right across the european union. i don’t think the traditional banking sector will be able to supply that. so i would also urge for a rapid move in terms of the capital markets union and the outstanding issues there to ensure that this is in place for the hopeful upturn that will come post-covid pandemic.
mr president, the beijing platform for action gave us all a strong clear perspective for equality, gender equality. hillary clinton made a ground-breaking declaration that really resonated with women around the world: ‘women’s rights are human rights and human rights are women’s rights’. back then if you had asked me where we would stand in 2021, i would have said the fight for gender equality would be over, that gender-based violence or equal pay and a lack of women’s representation would have been confined to history, it would have been dealt with. tragically, this has not happened. we hear it could be 80 years before we get political equality in the european union. and 25 years post-beijing and with a new generation of women we must now renew our pledge of purpose to make gender equality a reality. we need all of society working towards this to end and eradicate gender-based violence once and for all, to combat the whole issue of women living in poverty, particularly single mothers and older women, to tackle the climate challenge with understanding of the real lived circumstances of women, and to have enough women at the decision-making table where there are clearly not enough there in critical numbers at present. the generation equality forum will be an opportunity to tackle those challenges with a new generation of women seeing the next phase of this crusade. women have long fought this fight. we need male leaders, male champions, working with us if we are to succeed. let this beijing resolution be a real rallying call stating that in europe we are the gender global leaders working for equality, all of us together. there is much work still to do, but with determination and cooperation, working together as i say, women and men, we can make this a reality.
we're working on that microphone now, but i think we'll be able to get on with it pretty soon.
for the verts/ale group mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the safety of the astravyansk nuclear power plant has been on the european parliament's agenda since 2015, when the nuclear furnaces began to rise. during this period, we have called for a halt to construction on several occasions in various formats until the safety of our people and the people of belarus is guaranteed. but has the european commission ever called for the astravy project to be stopped? i don't think i ever will. despite lithuania's demand, despite the demands of meps, despite the fact that the construction of astravyansk violated international conventions, despite the fact that belarus did not implement the results of the stress test, despite all known and unknown incidents during construction. this is pathetic! over the years, the commission has had a number of levers to negotiate seriously. the astravyansk nuclear power plant is currently operating at full capacity, but is not being put into commercial use. the commission still has one last chance to do its duty and to demand the shutdown of the power plant at least until all the european union stress test recommendations have been implemented. it is not enough that only part of them is fulfilled! one security flaw can create a new chernobyl. i am very grateful to the whole european parliament, which i hope will vote unanimously on this resolution. and i hope that the commission will finally hear what parliament is saying, namely that the european commission must do everything possible to ensure that the power plant on the european union's border does not start up unless all the security gaps are closed.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. greetings from warsaw. as my colleagues have already said, especially those from vilnius, lithuania, the construction of the nuclear power plant in ostrovets raises serious safety concerns. the lack of transparency in the implementation of this investment prevents a full safety assessment of the power plant. it is not surprising that belarus' neighbors (not only lithuania, not only latvia, but also poland) cannot feel safe, especially since many accidents have already occurred during the construction, which were hidden by the belarusian side. that's why it's so important to monitor the state of this investment. furthermore, the question arises as to what is the real purpose of this investment? the energy produced in ostrovetsk will be expensive, twice as expensive as the energy produced in the belarusian gas installations. it may also be that, due to excess capacity, this power plant will operate to a limited extent. the assumption made by minsk that the investment would be repaid after 15 years of operation is unrealistic. if the investment is not economically viable, why is it being carried out? perhaps it is as with the famous nordstream2 that the targets are mainly geopolitical. as we know, ostrowiec is a threat to the critical infrastructure of the baltic states' electricity grid, and it is this participation of rosatom, which mr mariani mentioned, that is perhaps the geopolitical threat to all.
i would like to thank our skilled technicians who solved this mysterious electrical problem. they said it was because of the static electricity that's generated in cold weather, and when you touch a microphone, you can do this. so the problem is solved. so this was a hypothesis that i've just heard.
madam president, i would like to start by inviting you all to support this resolution, which highlights several important problems with the ostrovets nuclear power plant. it does not comply with international safety standards, the regulatory authority in belarus is not independent from the regime, and there have already been several technical problems and incidents at the plant. belarus has an authoritarian regime and authoritarian regimes have a tendency to cover up their problems. therefore, it is possible that through changes to the ostrovets nuclear power plant things will be covered up. this puts at risk the safety of europeans, especially those coming from the countries which are geographically close to belarus. therefore, we should not allow any electricity imports from belarus into the european union market. finally, the synchronisation of the baltic electricity grid with the continental european network is a strategic priority, and a very important step towards our energy union.
the safety and security of nuclear installations in the member states and in neighbouring countries is a matter of the utmost importance to the citizens of europe. the recent operation of the ostronets nuclear power plant with russian involvement - i stress this - just 50 km from vilnius, lithuania, without meeting the basic european and international safety standards of the european union, is reprehensible. but compliance cannot be achieved by words. we have a similar threat from turkey, which is again proceeding with russian involvement in the construction of a nuclear power station in akkuyu, a highly seismically sensitive area just 90 km from cyprus, a member state of the european union which is already suffering from turkish occupation. turkey is also again withholding key information and not ratifying relevant international conventions. we therefore call on the commission and the european council to ensure that the two countries comply with european and international safety standards, otherwise the only alternative is to impose targeted sanctions. the health and safety of european citizens must be put before political, economic or other interests, and we must prove this by action, not just words.
the belarusian nuclear power plant, located in astrava, only 40 km from the lithuanian capital vilnius and 20 km from the external border of the european union, was put into operation at the end of last year. in the event of a possible accident, at least one third of the population of lithuania would be affected. the astaravo nuclear power plant is a geopolitical project of russia and belarus, proving that a nuclear power plant can be built with borrowed money, without any economic project justification and in the absence of a nuclear safety culture in belarus. the russian state-owned company rosatom, which financed the astaravo nuclear power plant, is seeking to create the conditions for keeping the baltic states in the energy dependence system known as brell. the electricity generated by the astrava nuclear power plant is intended to flood the baltic markets, to compete with renewable energy sources and to delay the synchronisation of the baltic states with the continental european electricity grids. the loan of usd 10 billion to rosatom the construction of the astaravo nuclear power plant in belarus further links the country financially to russian influence. the credit can only be embellished by ensuring the export of the electricity produced to the european union markets and by dumping the local producers. the construction of the astrava nuclear power plant, which has been started, and its continued operation are accompanied by accidents and technical failures, without avoiding human casualties. the belarusian nuclear security authorities lack experience and transparency in their activities, as political command from above is dominant. the geopolitical design of rosatom is to ensure that no one questions the alleged compliance with nuclear standards. how else to explain the fact that the astravy nuclear power plant is being built in belarus, the country most affected by the chernobyl accident. the lukashenka regime's brutal use of force against its own people is a well-known fact. the unstable regime has now taken over the astravyansk nuclear power plant, pursuing its own objectives and notwithstanding the failure to meet 29 european nuclear safety requirements. lithuania expects european solidarity in stopping nuclear blackmail and in stopping the nuclear risk it poses. first of all, the commercial trade in the baltic markets for the astravyansk nuclear power plant, which is currently taking place, must be stopped and the boycott of unsafe and dumped electricity ensured. ladies and gentlemen, several petitions signed by over 12 thousand lithuanian citizens and citizens of europe have been presented to the european parliament. they call for the immediate shutdown of the unsafe astravyansk nuclear power plant. we expect swift and comprehensive action from the european commission and solidarity in the face of the nuclear dictator lukashenko.
i now open the first votes of the day. we shall vote on the items on the agenda and the vote will be taken at 9.45 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. the voting procedure is the same as in previous votes and all votes are cast by roll-call. i now pronounce the first votes of the election valid. you can vote until 11:00. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue the debate on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, chaired by mr cristian-silviu bușo, on the question for oral answer to the commission on the safety of the astravets nuclear power plant in belarus (o-000004/2021 - b9-0003/21) (2021/2511 (((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, we have had our tedious experience with nuclear reactors in a relatively short period of time. there was the chernobyl disaster in 1986 which i think we all remember well. and then, of course, there was the disaster in japan, fukushima in 2011. these are all experiences -- i think we can all agree on this -- that we all never want to have again. the effects of both disasters are still felt by the people of europe and japan. the chernobyl accident in particular shows, of course, in europe how long-lasting such incidents and disasters are and how long-lasting their effects on the ground are. however long-lasting their effects on human health may be. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised. the rate of cancer in europe has increased rapidly since 1986. medical experts believe that this is also an effect of the 1986 incident. it is presumptuous to think, dear colleagues, that we have nuclear fission under complete control. the reactor in question does not meet the recommendations of the international atomic energy agency. besides, it's also in the room that incidents on the ground are simply not reported. we now have an outdated reactor in my region too - in slovenia - the krsko reactor - which would also threaten the whole of slovenia, croatia and austria with a possible catastrophe. nuclear reactors are always a safety hazard. the green deal will increase the number of reactors in europe considerably. i can end with goethe, who says: "i cannot get rid of the spirits i have called". maybe one more thing: there has been a kind of influence in this resolution before us today which i do not think should have been exercised in this way. there was influence from the commission, where the rapporteur was influenced, but also from the operator of this nuclear power plant. i think we can make our own decisions and we don't need that in this house.
madam president, as a lifelong anti-nuclear campaigner, i’m really glad that we’re discussing this issue. i fully support the lithuanians and belarusians who oppose the ostrovets plant. they’ve every right to unbiased scientific and transparent information about this plant, and we’ve every right to discuss it because radioactive fallout knows no borders. it is an international issue. in that sense, i’m a bit surprised at some of the comments around this because it is being treated more as a geopolitical issue. we’ve heard some arguments that belarus – shock, horror – might generate a surplus energy from this, and that they might stay linked to the russian grid and not have to buy european liquefied natural gas. seriously, that’s not a concern for me. meanwhile, on the western boundary of the eu, there’s another country with several nuclear plants close to the eu. it’s the uk. they’ve just unilaterally left euratom and we say nothing. they now police themselves and, just like belarus, the uk has breached our house and the espoo conventions. leaked internal reports show most of their nuclear plants are at risk of coastal flooding, raising the possibility of a fukushima-style disaster. the uk trade agreement facilitates continued energy flow over connectors without really having sufficient commitments in this regard. colleagues, i hope all the concern about this plant will be transferred when we discuss the uk agreement because otherwise, is the next chernobyl going to be in hinkley point in somerset? we should be talking about not just russian and belarussian plants, but uk and french ones as well.
madam president, there are good reasons why no nuclear power plants have been built on or near european soil since fukushima. there are good reasons why nuclear accidents at fukushima and chernobyl are described as disasters. there are good reasons why eu member states have been raising concerns about ostrovets, the belarus nuclear power plant, due to open next month, just 20 kilometres from the eu border. ostrovets is another nuclear disaster waiting to happen. it violates international conventions, having been built with a total lack of independent oversight of rigorous safety standards. we must learn from the past. clean, renewable and safe energy sources are available, so it’s time to say a resounding ‘no’ to nuclear.
madam president, many of us have complained about difficulties with communication in the past year. the restrictions imposed due to the covid—19 pandemic have resulted in many of our daily conversations taking place over video calls. we’ve all experienced the frustrating frozen images and disjointed audio that can occur. we must draw attention to the fact that communication has been made especially difficult for people who are deaf or hard of hearing. masks that are not transparent make it impossible to lip-read. they can also prevent effective communication with children and people with autism who may be more in tune with facial expressions and non-verbal cues. i applaud the charity and citizen-led initiatives that have distributed transparent masks over the last year. now it’s time for us in the eu and member states to work together to ensure that transparent masks are safe and protect from the spread of the virus as much as possible. in the us certain models of transparent masks have even been approved for use in operating rooms. the right fit and materials are key, and i would welcome the publication of further guidance within the eu on these points for transparent masks. our strategies and policies to combat the virus must take into account the particular issues that face some in our society, and we also need to make sure there is sufficient flexibility, where possible, to accommodate certain groups in stopping the virus that does not completely alienate them or significantly prevent the functioning of everyday tasks. i hope that one day, in the not too distant future, we won’t need to wear face masks anymore; until that day comes we need to ensure that transparent masks are effective and available. a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat. slán.
in the european union, mrs president, several million people have hearing or vision impairments, and in my country alone, for example, in croatia, more than 13 000 citizens have hearing difficulties. like other citizens, they are suffering the effects of the pandemic such as physical isolation and social exclusion. the eurobarometer survey showed that 52% of the disabled respondents felt discriminated against in the last year. one reason is that communication is hampered by the mandatory wearing of face masks that have become part of our daily lives. the purpose of the transparent masks is to facilitate communication by lip-reading and facial gestures, especially for citizens who are deaf or have impaired hearing, thus ensuring their right to social isolation, that is, not to be socially isolated or discriminated against, and to access information, if you wish. but we also have to consider children, people with autism, and some other diseases, for example, the simple masks that some people have because of their specific diseases make it difficult for them to communicate or wear them, their condition gets worse. the manufacturer shall ensure that the masks and protective equipment are made of materials which do not adversely affect the health and safety of the user and which comply with the applicable legal requirements and standards. there are currently no specific standards for the production of transparent masks, which makes this discussion particularly important. the conformity assessment shall establish compliance with the essential health and safety requirements applicable to personal protective equipment in the union, and transparent masks should not be an exception. they have to have a ce mark so that we know they're safe, and we can also check if they're in the nando database, so protecting the market from products that don't meet health and safety requirements is our imperative, especially now in a pandemic where health is the global focus. i also welcome the upcoming european union disability rights strategy for 2021 and 2030, with improving the social and economic situation as well as the overall quality of life of persons with disabilities as an important objective. so let's help them to integrate properly into life.
madam president, julia is a deaf woman who has stopped shopping because she has to ask the cashier to take off her mask to communicate; she has also stopped going to the doctor because she can't read her lips. this testimony is also shared by haizea, a twenty-two-year-old girl who lives in eibar and whose testimony is the same as julia's. she says she couldn't go to her doctor during the pandemic because she had to make an appointment by phone and now, with the mask, she can't read her lips. so millions of people in the european union cannot communicate because the mandatory mask prevents that communication and is a new barrier. mask, gel and safety distance are the three essential elements in this new normal. but these masks, which prevent communication for so many people with hearing and visual impairments, are a new 'barrierism': a new barrier and a new form of discrimination. that is why some autonomous communities, such as the basque country, or some countries, such as france, have started to work on the homologation of transparent masks, such as those described today by my colleague ádám kósa, in order to reduce social isolation, to be able to appreciate sound and so that there is no difficulty in that communication. but what we are asking the european union today is not to go one by one, but to have all these masks approved by european standards, so that these transparent masks are made of sustainable material and also meet safety standards. europe is the continent of peace, non-discrimination and values, so now is the time. we are in time to achieve such non-discrimination and therefore i ask the commission to approve all these masks, not only to benefit people with hearing and visual impairments, but also all people on the autistic spectrum and society as a whole. and so we shall make europe truly the continent of peace.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have to tell you that i am very grateful for this debate. i want to thank you for the important remarks that were made, and at least from my perspective, i have to tell you that i also learned a lot while listening to you. as i said earlier in my introduction and intervention, the priority for all relevant actors along the supply chain of masks is to ensure that the users can find the products that are first of all safe, that serve the required function, and are adapted to their needs. this is the principle, and this is also the case for transparent face masks covered by the eu legislation on ppe, on medical devices or on gpsd according to their performance and intended use. so what i can say and tell you today is that the commission will continue to provide support to all stakeholders by elaborating guidance, enabling the exchange of best practices, and by facilitating the coordination efforts. and concerning the most vulnerable people in society, and especially people with disabilities, i would say that we plan to adopt the eu disability strategy in march. i think that also gives us some ideas on how we are able to ensure an equal society for all of us, but i thank you for this very good and fruitful discussion.
member of the commission. – madam president, three months into the conflict in tigray, the eu is still extremely concerned by the situation in ethiopia. ethiopia is an important eu partner in the horn of africa, and ethiopia is one of the few countries with whom the eu has a strategic engagement. our decision to postpone the disbursement of three budget support payments for a total amount of eur 88.5 million must be seen in that context where we are asking for an end to hostilities, unhindered humanitarian access and an investigation of reported human rights abuses. as time passes by, let me be clear, colleagues: the humanitarian situation is getting dangerously critical. the newly-established administration in tigray stated in mid-january that over 4.5 million people were in need of emergency food assistance, of whom 2.2 million were internally-displaced persons with other basic needs. most of tigray is now classified as in crisis in the food security classification, which is one step before famine, and the health system has collapsed in many places. this requires an immediate scale-up of assistance, with large-scale food distributions and provision of primary healthcare services. an increase of additional experienced emergency staff is urgently needed. on monday, together with high representative borrell and commissioner lenarčič, we issued a statement calling for an immediate strengthening of actions. first, two months after the signature of the un and government of ethiopia access agreement, eight actors are still without meaningful access to most of tigray. we take note of the engagement by the government of ethiopia to review urgently requests submitted by humanitarian partners, but more improvement on humanitarian access is needed. relief actors, including large un agencies such as the world food programme or unhcr, need to be able to operate directly and not only via or in support of the ethiopian administration. second, the protection of civilians caught in the tigray conflict is at the heart of our preoccupations, with increasing reports of ethnic violence, casualties and serious violations of human rights, international refugee and humanitarian law, including appalling levels of sexual and gender-based violence. the eu continues supporting refugees, idps and host communities through the implementation of programmes financed by the eu trust fund for africa. and in addition, the eu supports the poorest food-insecure households through the productive safety net programme, with a contribution of eur 50 million. the eu has called for the prevention of refoulement and forced return targeting eritrean refugees. it has underlined that all civilians in search of assistance, safety and security in tigray should be safe and free to move to other ethiopian regions or towards neighbouring countries. we are, in that light, very much concerned about the situation at the border with sudan, and as a result, the eu has been allocating additional funds – eur 70 million – to the sudan family support programme to support the government of sudan hosting ethiopian refugees. last but not least, the finnish foreign minister, pekka haavisto, is leading this week a high-level eu-mandated mission to sudan and ethiopia, notably to discuss humanitarian access with ethiopian authorities, and of course we are looking forward to working with him, and of course with this house, to take the recommendations forward.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam commissioner, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the armed conflict in the federal state of tigray since november has threatened the livelihoods of more than two and a half million people, as the commissioner mentioned. we have to be clear: despite the demands of humanitarian organizations like the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs, ocha, the issue of humanitarian access has changed little in recent months. recent reports indicate that a large number of ngos have returned to the region. this hopeful news has yet to be confirmed by more sources. as telecommunications and humanitarian access in the tigray region is still limited, we can only rely on personal accounts. in november 2019, i paid a fact-finding visit to the region and visited the center of current events in aksum, the shire and the mai aini camp. it was then that i had the opportunity to personally assess the vulnerability of eritreans and internally displaced persons, or idps, in the province. in the northern state of tigray, the population currently has no access to electricity or fuel. in addition, as the commissioner has mentioned, there is a pressing problem of food shortages and, according to un figures, two million people have become internally displaced. prime minister abiy, who was awarded the nobel peace prize more than a year ago for ending the war in eritrea. the campaign in the tigray region unfortunately threatens the stability that the ethiopian prime minister hopes to achieve. as you can see from the above, the crisis in northern ethiopia is not just a local problem. the conflict there threatens the stability of the entire region. so far, more than 60,000 refugees have arrived in sudan. the aid agencies should be allowed to assess the real situation in the tigray region as soon as possible. we must end this armed conflict immediately, or the crisis will spread, triggering another wave of refugees to europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, against the backdrop of political tensions between the government of mr abiy ahmed and the tplf, which, let us remember, has dominated the political scene in ethiopia for decades and has also been responsible for many serious human rights violations, a humanitarian drama is unfolding, as you said, commissioner. the latest report from human rights watch is overwhelming. how can the government of mr abiy ahmed justify these military operations that are plunging thousands of civilians into disarray? massive destruction of homes, public infrastructure such as schools or hospitals, complete lockdowns with no physical access but also with the closure of the internet... thousands have fled the country to seek refuge in neighbouring sudan to avoid attacks, others are internally displaced and in the worst cases families are stranded without access to food, water and medicine. as you said, madam commissioner, access for humanitarian emergencies is important. this is urgent, but it is also a matter of law enforcement, because the laws that apply to the armed conflict in tigray prohibit any attack that targets civilians or civilian structures, any indiscriminate attack, and any attack that causes more damage to civilian populations than the expected military gains. any individual who commits serious violations of these laws of war is responsible for war crimes and must be brought to justice. this is also an important message to mr abiy ahmed from the ethiopian government.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i lost my best friend, pat whitty, five years ago today. i still miss him. people in tigray have been losing whole families in these past few months because of the war crimes of ethiopia’s unelected prime minister, abiy ahmed, and the government is doing all it can to hide the truth. the ethiopian ambassador to the eu, hirut zemene, came to our committee on foreign affairs two weeks ago. a lot of what she had to say was a work of fiction. she said that they were restoring the law and order situation. she said that the operation – as you might be aware, she said – had been concluded within three weeks. this is not true. after 13 weeks, fighting continues. she said that the ethiopian government was focused on delivering much anticipated humanitarian assistance. not true. the ethiopian government has done everything in its power to prevent humanitarian aid reaching the people of tigray. aid agencies have been badly frustrated. she said that the abiy ahmed government tried its best to take on board the tplf leadership. not true. as soon as abiy ahmed became prime minister, he set out to isolate the tplf and the people of tigray. he dissolved the ruling coalition of which the tplf was part. now he has expelled 17 000 tigray soldiers from the ethiopian army and ethiopian airlines has fired all its workers from tigray. if abiy ahmed’s government had any interest in the truth, it would allow independent un—led investigations in tigray and give access to independent media. in total violation of international law, eritrean troops are in tigray, committing unspeakable atrocities, murdering civilians, looting, destroying public property, factories, hospitals and religious sites. and still abiy ahmed denies the presence of eritrean troops in tigray. his peace deal with isayas afewerki, eritrea’s president, looks more like a war deal now, a vengeful marriage of convenience against the people of tigray. a government accused of committing war crimes in tigray, using hunger as a weapon, and one that continues to blatantly lie about the involvement of eritrean troops in tigray cannot be trusted to deliver relief to tigray. a government that deliberately burnt fields of crops in tigray cannot be trusted with delivering food aid. a government that causes suffering and deaths on its own citizens in a treacherous partnership with eritrea’s president, a ruthless dictator, cannot be trusted with ending the suffering of tigray. sadly, too many of the world’s powers are content to ignore the slaughter taking place in tigray. the americans, the russians, saudi, uae and others are still happy to do deals with this war criminal, abiy ahmed, as they scheme to plunder ethiopia with his help. if europe stands for anything, let’s see some real effort and put an end to the persecution of the people of tigray, and let’s see abiy ahmed and afewerki held to account in the international criminal court. our silence is causing the deaths of hundreds of thousands.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we can be proud, across all political groups, that this report is the first time that parliament has taken a very comprehensive legislative initiative. the european supply act is coming. all companies operating in the eu with more than 250 employees or listed on the stock exchange will be obliged to ensure respect for human rights, environmental protection and decent working conditions along their supply chains. this can and must become another important building block for fair, sustainable international trade, according to the conflict minerals guidelines. the commission is called upon to present a bold law to prevent the importation into the european market of products produced using child labour, forced labour, modern forms of slavery or methods which are harmful to health or the environment. provide smes with the opportunity to demonstrate that they have clean supply chains. make it painful when corporate black sheep are caught in the act of neglecting their duty of care. open up access to compensation for victims. they need it more than investors.
madam president, please. well, it's important to have good intentions, but you shouldn't shoot yourself in the foot. let's see how this plan would work in practice. everything i say is based on juri's blueprint. joe owns a coffee shop in an eu member state. he buys his coffee from zulu, an african producer, through a number of suppliers. the policy says joe is responsible for the entire value chain, including the items zulu was wearing. since joe is a rule-follower, he does everything that the rule-follower says: he writes strategy, he investigates, he audits. he doesn't have time to make coffee. one day, william, the civilian, shows up and says that joe made a mistake by not consulting him, even though he would have told him that zulu was using a dangerous spray on the ground. he demands that joe pay damages and make a public apology. the national authorities are fining him, barring joe from their state benefits. there's another wave of covid coming, joe can close the curtain. the proposal is therefore anti-sme, anti-free market and interferes with contract law. please don't vote for him. and the commission, wait for the impact study. let's see how it affects competitiveness, supply chains, and then make a proposal.
mr president, only one in three companies in europe can estimate the impact of their activities on human rights and the environment. the majority of european companies have no idea whether, for example, child labour or the systematic dumping of waste in rivers is part of their value chain. the legislation in europe on this subject is too fragmented. however, it is necessary to encourage companies to contribute to a sustainable chain. many companies focus heavily on those short-term gains, while sustaining a value chain over the long term is equally important. however, we must not be blind to the many voluntary initiatives that already exist in our european companies today. that is why i supported this call for a european approach. it would create a level playing field and extend a competitive advantage to all businesses and our internal market, but under the right conditions and provided that a proportionate approach is taken. it is not possible for our smes to suffer the consequences of this legislation because they are at the end of the line, because they do not have sufficient capacity or information. i therefore urge the european commission to provide sufficient guarantees and to reduce the administrative burden. only then will we have a well-developed legislation that provides sufficient incentives to make a value chain sustainable. proportionality is the key word.
madam president, a number of other speakers have mentioned the legal case where nestlé are a defendant in respect of child slaves that escaped from côte d’ivoire and nestlé have made the case of impunity, or immunity, because of remoteness, being so far away, and a lack of control. there is another case in the uk where last month the uk supreme court accepted the proposition that the parent company could owe a duty of care in respect of damage caused by a subsidiary in a third country, thus accepting that the most vulnerable communities, at the furthest end of the supply chain, deserve the protection of the british court. in the us, there is a case involving dell, tesla, microsoft, google and apple as defendants in a case involving children who are injured and children who have been killed in a mine collapse associated with cobalt mining in the democratic republic of congo. now these cases can be avoided with proper due diligence properly implemented. these cases can in fact improve the position of companies, but the least we can do, i would say to the commissioner, is make sure that we don’t weaken the hand of vulnerable communities as plaintiffs, and that we make sure that they have access to remedies.
the survival of the eu depends on enterprises, mr president, and the survival of an enterprise depends on the ability to balance the interests of all concerned. this is called, in a fancy word, stakeholder management. it's been around for many years and it works. so what's the point of extra regulation? it is up to the entrepreneur to timely improve, depending on, among other things, the robustness of the organization and the state of the economy. the fact that we are now faced with a huge set of regulations, new rules for business in times of covid, is a sign of the rapporteur's complete lack of empathy. the rapporteur states that the business community is not aware of its own impact on the environment, but does it understand the impact it has on business? the report shows that there is a lack of confidence in business. this initiative is not solving problems, it is creating them. it is of the utmost importance that all the eu institutions now exercise self-restraint and suspend their rule-making until further notice. it's a way for the business community to catch its breath.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years consumers and investors have paid increasing attention to the sustainability of production models and to the social responsibility of enterprises. it is significant that today, on international women's day, we are discussing clear european legislation on due diligence and responsibility, so that business and commercial decisions take due account of human rights, especially those of children and women, which are still often violated, and take into account social and environmental impacts, especially in the light of the ambitious challenges of the green and digital transition. europe can also be an inspiration to other continents in this respect. all right, but we must take account of the peculiarities of the entrepreneurial fabric in countries such as italy, where the system is largely made up of small and mediumsized enterprises which form the backbone of important european production chains. in trade relations, the risk must be avoided that the economically stronger firms will offload their due diligence and responsibility obligations on the small and medium-sized enterprises in their supply chain or even avoid them by relocating production. we must avoid putting additional burdens on small businesses, especially at a time when they need to be given a boost and a boost. for these reasons i hope that there will be voluntary models for small and mediumsized enterprises and where it is not possible to provide them with adequate support to encourage their due diligence.
the commission is also proposing to the president, i know that you are talking about all the people in the european union. when we arrived at the store, we wanted to have a night in the store with the goods we bought at the door of the store. we'd like to go on a trip to the moon in the morning to see if we can make a difference in human rights. we don't need any more goods to make three dhushaothrū workers and children to buy. more than you need to know, more than you need to know, more than you need to know. i feel that this is going to be important, not just for our future, but especially for the future of our country.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – madam president, in an ideal world work and employment would mean empowerment, independence and full inclusion in society for people with a disability. but unfortunately, that is frequently not a reality. on this international women’s day let us remember that women with disabilities make up 16% of the total population of women and 60% of the overall population of persons with a disability in the eu, ensuring that our continent allows all people with a disability to fully participate and that economic and social life is not catering to a small population, but rather benefits all of us, economically and socially. in ireland and across europe, we have many vibrant disability organisations that need to be supported further in their work for greater inclusion. they work to raise awareness of rights, to share research and best practice, and to combat youth and senior unemployment. the eu should make full use of the abilities of all its citizens. rights is not a favour we should ask for from others, but it is a bare minimum.
madam president, dear commissioner, delighted to be here and start by saying inclusion is a right, not a privilege. it is not a matter of political correctness; it is how we progress in policymaking. on this day, international women’s day, i want to remind the commission and, importantly, all my colleagues in this chamber who use their voice and vote every month, of the importance of systematically including the interests and rights of women and girls with disabilities in every policy. i equally want to remind my colleagues at home in ireland to work with us and implement those interests and rights of women and girls with disabilities into national policies. this is particularly important in regards to education, employment and social policy, where persons with disabilities are too often excluded from education and from employment opportunities, thus making access to full-time employment even more difficult and thereby increasing inequalities and social exclusion even further.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – madam president, now, more than ever, we need to support our businesses. i am glad that the investeu agreement recognises those companies that are at risk of insolvency due to the covid-19 crisis. up to 400 billion can be mobilised with investeu. this will be a game—changer for smes and businesses most at risk and for our cultural and creative sectors, as we’ve heard. yet while investeu’s goal is to primarily support smes, it also has the potential to build gender equality and invest in women’s economic empowerment, a critical issue in the recovery. it can help close the gender gap, fostering female creativity and entrepreneurial potential, and supporting the development of care infrastructure and an infrastructure for victims of violence. public and private, as we’ve heard, must work together. this twin approach will drive competition and innovation and a jobs-driven recovery. let’s build back better and adapt our economies to a more green, digital and, of course, inclusive future. parliament has ensured that investeu contributes to achieving the target of spending at least 30% of eu funds on climate objectives.
madam president, firstly, i welcome the investeu programme. i think it’s significant and it’s very important, commissioner. there’s no doubt that, since the financial crisis, europe has been struggling. for years, we have been waiting for the public sector to do the heavy lifting in terms of stimulating growth in the european union. now, facing the corona pandemic, we do need a stimulus package and i very much welcome this particular issue in trying to ensure that we can untap the private markets to invest in the european union. i welcome the sustainable investment window and the research and innovation digitisation window in particular. they are key areas in trying to develop a modern economy in the global context. so, for all those reasons, it is critically important. of course, the small and medium—sized sector is the area that we very often forget when we are making policy and deciding on where money goes and where investment goes. so i also believe that we have to significantly encourage the markets to invest in the small and medium—sized sector, and of course that will require movement in the capital markets union and many other areas. this particular investeu programme is designed to ensure that we don’t have a credit crunch. one of the biggest threats to a credit crunch in the years ahead is the review of the stability and growth pact and the unwinding of the emergency clause, and that is certainly an area where i believe we have to get it right. the council will have to play a key role in ensuring that we have a planned route from the general escape clause and the review of the growth and stability pact. otherwise, we will have credit crunches in countries with large public debt. but i do welcome this investeu programme.
mr. chairman, please. it has been more than a year since covid-19 struck europe. it has been a difficult year, but every day more and more european citizens are being vaccinated, and this gives us hope that we can take off the gag and breathe a sigh of relief. but we must not put the corona crisis behind us without learning from it. there is much to learn and it is now that we must prepare europe for the next health crisis. member states have already had their national health systems stress tested and in many places this has triggered some very important discussions on how to improve access to health for citizens at national level. not just in relation to the corona. the coronavirus crisis has also shown us how we can and should strengthen our european health cooperation. we need to be faster at detecting health crises so we can respond in time. we need to stockpile medical equipment in europe so that we do not have to buy it first if the crisis comes and we need to maintain and strengthen international cooperation so that the eu can continue to be a responsible health actor in the world. and then, by the way, we have to give more muscle to our ecdc so that they can intervene more quickly. but the program does more than that. the programme also helps to improve. it does more than prepare us for a new health crisis. the programme also strengthens research and prevention of diseases and gives us a better chance of fighting together against such diseases as cancer and diabetes. there are a lot of great initiatives, so let's just get started.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! it is often argued that the european union is concerned with issues that are secondary to the citizens and not fully understood or are the responsibility of the member states. i am personally in favour of a union that does less but is more effective in the areas most important to its citizens. i therefore believe that the health system should be one of the priorities of the european union, where the community could demonstrate its effectiveness. it didn't take the coronavirus crisis to see too many differences in the quality of healthcare across the member states. there are too many white spots on the map of europe where people have trouble accessing doctors. too many diseases, like cancer, are detected too late. especially in the context of cancer, it is important to develop a treatment system closer to the patient, allowing for earlier detection and more effective treatment. i believe that by working together we can achieve this, and i am firmly convinced that the european union should have the tools to do so. that is why i strongly support the eu health programme and i am glad that we have managed to negotiate a tripling of this budget. this money should be used to close interregional gaps, improve infrastructure, digitise health services and safeguard the health system against possible crises. and i hope that this will be part of the foundation for the future common health policy of the european union.
mr. president, the commissioner is here. i could have said this from budapest online, but i wanted to be here for this debate in person, because we are making history. we are making history, which the european society, worried about the virus, is not yet aware of. we already know that there's a real revolution in european public health care that's been happening here in the last few years. we have worked very hard to make the european health union programme an official programme and, for example, to have twelve times as much in this budget over the next seven years as in the previous seven years for health programmes. and yes, there are two levels to this: one level is what the prime ministers in the council have to take into account, that there has to be a european level of health care, of insurance. because we need cross-border health programs, we need a common health industry in the european union that helps us, these 450 million people, so that if there's an epidemic, if there's a situation, if there's a need to prevent, or if there's a need to set targets, then the european union is there and our societies, like hungarians, are the ones that are part of the healthiest and best-serving health structures. but the other part is in the member states. that is why we say that we need common objectives, common minimum standards, which all european citizens must have in the future. hungarians, belgians, everybody is different.
commissioner, mr president, the launch of this eu4health programme, with over eur 5 billion, could not be more timely. health has never been so much a priority, as a european topic and subject, as it is today. i would like to say that i welcome the idea of having 20% set aside for preventive medicine and here i would like to defend a cause that is fundamental for the union, which is the fight against childhood obesity, which will be the source of many diseases in the future. according to the idea of strategic reserves - 12.5% of the money being allocated to strategic reserves - this is key to ensuring that we never again have the affliction we had at the beginning of the pandemic, where medicines, equipment, were lacking across the union. the priority to be given to fighting cancer, and finally, let me just touch on this, which is a lesson from the pandemic. european health services have not failed. they weren't geared towards infections, and so we have to re-focus -- as in the early 20th century -- all of our health services to the new problem that is infections. and the problem of infections raises the question of the health union, because infections have no borders, they require mobility and therefore require a european response in the field of health.
mr president, while health remains a national competence, at eu level, there are opportunities to exchange best practices, support digitalisation, and promote medical excellence. along with training more healthcare staff and supporting research, the eu4health programme presents a leap forward in the health of our citizens. the pandemic exposed the vulnerability of our healthcare systems as we experienced care disruptions, medical shortages, health system inadequacy, and insufficient and unequal access to healthcare. so, there is a need for a common health policy that allows eu countries to properly cooperate and coordinate in times of crisis and to strengthen our capacity to respond to new cross-border health threats. during the early stages of the pandemic especially, europe reckoned with shortages in necessary medical supplies and medicines due to disruption and bottlenecks in global supply chains. we all agree that we can no longer have such dependence on one or two countries in key markets. to do this, we must help manufacture and produce more medicines in europe, and by so doing, we will strengthen the union to the benefit of all our citizens. and as our very dear commissioner said in her opening remarks, with eur 5.1 billion, a lot can be achieved – 12 times more than the previous mandate. a good news story.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank honourable members very much for this very important discussion. i am very grateful to have had the opportunity to hear all your perspectives and positions. as many of you have said, it’s thanks to this parliament that we are here today. you shared our vision, you made it your own, and i am confident that we are going to be moving forward together. i heard so many overwhelming voices of support today, but of course i also take into account the criticism and all the comments made. many of you discussed and mentioned vaccines, and issues of transparency, which, as you all know and i have said many times from this podium, is an absolute priority for us. i have always said that out of crisis comes opportunity. together we seized the opportunity. together we made it our vision and we turned it into action, and this action is called eu4health. it is called fighting inequalities. the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the european medicines agency (ema) will be strengthened. we have a new eu vaccine strategy with all the member states on board and this has ensured that citizens are receiving vaccines in every single member state, equally, despite the challenges. we are not out of this pandemic. we are working 24/7. we will be putting forward our proposal for hera later this year and we are ready to roll out the first actions under the hera incubator to support production delivery and adapted or novel covid-19 vaccines for the variants. and, because there was a question on this, we are in parallel working on therapeutics. this is a collective effort. we can exit this pandemic stronger and better prepared, but only if we all continue to work in the interests of european citizens. the new european parliament and european commission contact group on vaccines will provide this even greater collaboration. i’m always a little bit anxious when there are so many high expectations, as there are in this new programme. but in this case, i’m not anxious. in this case, i feel strongly energised because, with all your support, i know that we can work together to implement our new ambitious eu4health programme and bring about change. we will move ahead with europe’s beating cancer plan and the pharmaceutical strategy. we will address rare diseases, paediatric cancers, prevention, and access to health care. i will end with what i began with. this is the end of a journey, but the beginning of another one, one that european citizens expect us to deliver on. i look forward to working with you continuously for the implementation of this programme once it is adopted. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday, march 9, 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in recent times. even though individualism and lack of cooperation seemed to be sweeping across the continent at first, it is important that member states finally understood that only by standing together and in solidarity can we tackle a virus that knows no borders. the eu health programme is evidence of the strengthening of the post-pandemic european project. through eu4health, we have the opportunity to digitise and modernise the health system so that the eu can tackle epidemics and diseases that threaten human health. it is time to close the gaps we have identified between eu countries and regions. it's a chance for eastern european countries to modernize their health care systems so that they have the same standards that western countries have. this pandemic has demonstrated the importance of europe having the capacity to produce its medicines and medical equipment at union level, so as to reduce its dependence on third countries. medical research is further vital to find prompt and adequate responses, not only in view of recent developments in the pandemic, but also for the future. we must be one step ahead of the challenges so that life expectancy within the european union increases.
in writing. with a significant budget of 5.1 billion, this programme facilitates investments for: digitising healthcare, training medical staff, relocating medicines production in the eu, building up stocks of essential medical products. in the midst of the covid crisis, the ppe group was the one that insisted on increasing the funds allocated to the health program. in the view of the epp group, the main objectives of eu4health are to strengthen and modernise health systems in all member states, train medical staff, promote medical excellence, reduce inequalities within the eu, increase the exchange of good practice, fund a masterplan to fight cancer. to achieve these objectives, the epp supported the balanced use of funds by introducing a set of ceilings: a minimum of 20% for health promotion and disease prevention, a maximum of 12,5% for the provision of national stocks of medicines and medical products for crisis situations, a maximum of 12% for global commitments and initiatives and a maximum of 8% for administrative expenditure. in addition, the epp succeeded in introducing no less than 24 criteria for assessing the implementation of the programme. the covid crisis has demonstrated that the eu was not prepared to manage a major health crisis. eu4health shall strengthen the capacity to manage such situations.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis has shown us how much we need a european health policy that ensures that health systems work together, especially on key issues such as responding to large-scale health crises. eu4health is a good start in this direction and brings, in addition to a larger budget than that allocated to health in previous years, other important elements such as the encouragement of prevention programmes for which 20% of the financial envelope is allocated. but we need much more. we need an update of the legislation on cross-border healthcare to ensure more equitable access, we need common quality standards for healthcare services across the union, we need clearer european legislation to ensure access to essential medicines and treatments for rare diseases, we need a european organ transplant network to replace the current ad-hoc intergovernmental cooperation that many member states do not have access to. eu4health is a step forward, but by no means a sufficient one. i hope that at the conference on the future of europe we will be able to move towards having real european health competence and a budget to match.
in writing. i welcomed the commission's proposal for a separate union health programme with a much larger budget than in its previous version. this is very important, especially in smaller countries like lithuania, which need additional support for healthcare. only a strong and distinct programme will be able to effectively tackle future health threats and, more importantly, make eu health systems more resilient and able to overcome current shortcomings. the current health crisis, which has brought serious social and economic consequences and human suffering, has particularly affected people with chronic diseases, and has affected the most vulnerable, namely women, children, carers, the elderly and the disabled. while the eu's action in the field of health is limited, the union should implement a coherent public health strategy to respond to existing threats, taking into account regional and national specificities. the eu should support member states in reducing health disparities and ensuring universal health coverage and addressing vulnerable groups such as children, mothers and low-income families. as we support the health service, let us not forget that what matters most is the health and life of people.
we come to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous round of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 2.15 p.m. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 7 p.m. the debate will resume at 3 p.m. with the report by mrs aguilera on fisheries control. (the sitting was suspended at 1.01 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs clara aguilera, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on fisheries control (com ((2018) 0368 c8-0238/2018 2018/0193 cod)) (a9-0016/2021) i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
the rapporteur. madam president, good afternoon to all those present and following us, commissioner sinkevičius, welcome to parliament. we are finally presenting a very important report, but one that has taken us a long time in this parliament: almost three years since the publication of the commission's proposal in may 2018. we are ending this process, to begin the process of the tripartite dialogue. i would like to thank in particular my colleague, mrs isabelle thomas, who is not in this chamber but who was the first rapporteur on this dossier in the last legislature and did a great job, although at the beginning of this legislature, and because there were quite a few new members, i decided to start again with a draft report. i therefore thank her, and of course all the rapporteurs and their technical teams, who have done a very good job on this very technical dossier. i also thank the secretariat of the committee on fisheries and, of course, my assistants, maría luisa sevilla and jesús iborra, who have done an excellent job. this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, merges five regulations and will regulate one of the elements of the reform of the common fisheries policy which has yet to be adapted: i believe that the major outstanding element of the cfp is the rules for the control of fisheries and aquaculture. this is a complex and extensive report and we want to ensure a control system that is simple, transparent, effective and harmonised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. we got a good result in the vote in the committee on fisheries, and i now hope that it will be ratified in this house and improved, if possible, with amendments. i would like to thank the 25 compromise amendments that were adopted in that committee on fisheries, thanks to which we have achieved great and important objectives. i will mention some of them because of their uniqueness and relevance to the change in fisheries control: we have managed to strengthen traceability along the entire food chain in fishery and aquaculture products; the obligation to report how, where and which species are sold; new definitions of 'lot' and 'shipment'... traceability is certainly a substantial and essential element, as are the fishing logbook and geolocation, which are mandatory for all european union vessels, although we have allowed it to be done in a more simplified way for small-scale vessels, under 12 metres. we have also set a transitional period of four years for the incorporation of the technological elements: member states and the sector need time to install these new elements that will bring us into the digital age. recreational fishing needs to be included in the control system with a system of registration, licensing, catch declaration and penalties, and geolocation for chartered vessels and fishing tourism. we have proposed new safeguard measures for fishery products, the possibility of suspending tariff preferences - which is also new - and greater transparency in fisheries control: as politicians, we are obliged to be transparent in all areas, including fisheries control. we propose greater cooperation between the member states and the strengthening of the aecp, including the creation of a european register of infringements and lost art, and funding for the future fempa; i would like to thank my colleague gabriel mato for the coordinated work to achieve these objectives. i'm going to finish up. there are also other issues which are significant, such as the monitoring of the power of ships: we have approved sanctions for ships which manipulate engine power or the obligation to continuously monitor ships which have committed an infringement for manipulation with devices which measure and record engine power. i have tabled seven amendments to correct certain points. i have presented them to all the groups; some groups have taken them up and we have presented them together. i think it is essential that cctv systems are necessary to be able to cover the landing obligation, it is essential that they are mandatory. i do not reject the voluntary nature of the proposal, but i think that it is necessary to make it compulsory. i therefore hope that these seven amendments will be adopted by a majority and that we will have a fisheries control report which really lives up to the common fisheries policy and to all of us. i am grateful once again to all the alternative rapporteurs, their technical teams and the secretariat of the committee on fisheries for their efforts to achieve these objectives. thank you very much and i hope that this will be ratified by a majority.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, clara aguilera, for her tireless work on this reform of our fisheries control system and for her support on many elements of the commission’s proposal. thanks, also, to all other members involved, in both the committee on fisheries (pech) and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for their contributions. the vote you will cast later today will have long-lasting effects, very likely for decades to come, as legislative reforms take time. we should, thus, take the opportunity now to get it right and ensure we have a modern and future—proof fisheries control system. with your vote, you have the choice to indicate the direction – whether these effects will be positive not only for the fish stocks in our seas and oceans, but also for the livelihoods of our fishermen and women, whether they will allow for a digital transformation of the fisheries sector, and whether they will be in line with the green deal, and with the eu’s industry and trade policy. with this vote comes an important responsibility towards your constituencies, and more broadly towards eu citizens who call for a more sustainable future, but also towards our international partners – if the eu is to be credible in championing global efforts on international ocean governance. why do i say this? whilst i fully acknowledge the numerous positive aspects of the report, which is meant to become the european parliament’s mandate for trilogue negotiations, i see big risks in some of the amendments adopted by the pech committee, and also in newly tabled amendments to which i would like to call your attention. let me briefly explain which elements have triggered our particular concern. firstly, there is a clear risk that we are backtracking compared to current rules by relaxing current standards, and i am referring to the rules on the ‘margin of tolerance’, which sets the boundaries between what is considered to be legally and illegally caught and what is reported. increasing the margin of tolerance or allowing generous derogations would legalise under-reporting and thus promote overfishing. those amendments would actually erase 40 years of successive regulations and improvements in this field and would also largely benefit big operators as compared to small-scale fisheries. such lax standards would therefore undermine the common fisheries policy and the objective of the eu biodiversity strategy, and there would be risks of reputational damage for the eu at international level. how can we call for zero tolerance against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing by third countries if we do not show exactly the same zero-tolerance approach in our own waters? the second risk concerns illegal and undocumented discards at sea and is related to the amendments on closed-circuit tv cameras. we urgently need effective control tools to properly enforce the landing obligation. the landing obligation was the key element in the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2013, to finally end the wasteful practice of discards of unwanted fish, and if we fail to introduce compulsory remote electronic monitoring via closed-circuit tv cameras, we will continue to have illegal and undocumented discards, including of sensitive species. for the moment, there is no alternative control method here. not introducing closed-circuit tv camera controls will have several negative repercussions. firstly, ineffectively controlled fishing activities may lead to a decline of many fish stocks in our waters. secondly, this decline of fish stocks will eventually negatively affect the profitability of the eu fleet, in particular, of the artisanal sector. thirdly, it will hinder the transition to cleaner and selective fishing methods. the third risk concerns our ability to effectively control engine power. the engine power of a fishing vessel largely determines its fishing capacity, meaning, essentially, how much fish a vessel can catch and how long it can fish for, and therefore it is essential to be able to effectively monitor and control the engine power of fishing vessels to avoid manipulations and to prevent excessive fishing capacity. as a last point, let me also express the commission’s strong concerns regarding the introduction of a safeguard clause resulting in the suspension of trade preferences in case a third country receives a yellow card in the context of our policy on fighting illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. such an approach would undermine and strain our relations with third countries as, under the current eu policy, trade sanctions are applied only at the stage of red cards. it is also contradictory to the eu’s trade and sustainable development policy, and it pre-empts the outcome of its upcoming review. furthermore, unilateral eu action could also undermine the eu’s credibility on multilateral forums, notably in the ongoing multilateral negotiations in the wto on fisheries subsidies. after almost three years of discussions on the commission’s proposal for a modernised fisheries control system, i am very much looking forward to parliament adopting its negotiation position. i also hope that the council will follow in may, so that we will be able to start the trilogue negotiations soon and move forward with this important and very much awaited reform. the mandate for the negotiations you will vote on today and tomorrow will determine the chances of the new fisheries control regulation being kept in line with the european green deal and the digital transformation of the eu, the two most important political priorities on which the commission and this european parliament jointly agreed.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i am very pleased that commissioner sinkevičius is with us today. the control system is a fundamental pillar of the common fisheries policy. the reform we are voting on in the house today is a much-needed update of the current 2009 regulation. this legislative reform has very positive aspects, for example, the system of penalties for serious infringements is harmonised at union level and will put an end to comparative disadvantages between national fleets. we have also made progress in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and in the control of imports from third countries. on the contrary, we do not like the definition of 'lot' in relation to the canning industry, but naturally the media attention on this dossier has focused especially on the 'controversial' issue of using television cameras on board for the control of the landing obligation. from the outset, the members of the european people's party were cautious in this respect: the industry, as is well known, perceives this technology as very intrusive and contrary to privacy and data protection; there are voices calling it 'big brother'. the position of the ppe group has been a positive and constructive one, but firm: that the television camera system be set up either voluntarily and with incentives, or on a compulsory basis for offenders of the discard regulations, and i would like this position, which was already adopted by a large majority in the committee on fisheries a few weeks ago, to be ratified by the house. we need proportionality and gradualness, also in the control of small-scale fishing, which is so important in fishing communities such as my own in galicia, and in order to bring legislation closer to the reality of the sector, my group proposed again, and has reiterated this with an amendment, a multi-criteria definition of 'small-scale coastal fleet'. in the people's group we are well aware of the difficult circumstances in which maritime workers find themselves and the complicated situation the sector is now facing: brexit, the pandemic... fishermen do not deserve to be treated as suspected offenders, as suspected criminals; rather we need their understanding and cooperation and their support if european fisheries are to remain the most sustainable in the world.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i thank the rapporteur, clara aguilera and her whole team, and i would especially like to thank itxaso and isak for the great work they have done on this report. this regulation is a decisive step towards the promotion of economically, socially and environmentally sustainable fisheries, which is the main objective of the cfp. we are therefore committed to digitising tools and processes to make catch data easier, cheaper and more reliable. this will give us comprehensive and guaranteed information on the origin and conditions under which the fish we are about to eat was caught and processed. this information will improve labelling and consumer rights, so that consumers can reward truly sustainable european products with their purchases. that is why the concept of 'lot' has been strengthened, which will allow us to improve traceability and shield us against products from illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing operations. we have opted for innovative formulas, digitising and homogenizing catch tracking processes. we encourage the voluntary installation of cameras on board ships, which will be mandatory in the event of serious penalties or repeated infringements. crew safety and control go hand in hand with satellite tracking of all types of fishing vessels. recreational fishing is for the first time included in the systematic monitoring of its impact on fish stocks to measure how it interferes with professional activity. the sector is making a new effort to be transparent and is taking on new obligations that deserve better social consideration. the commission's polemic on the margin of tolerance is therefore based more on prejudice than on knowledge. this is an operational adjustment of the estimate of what is captured to the result that throws the scale on the discharge. it is not allowed to fish any more: each vessel adjusts to its quota. that is why, on your behalf and at the express request of the people who live in and around the sea, i am making a special request to you, commissioner sinkevičius: forget your prejudices; approach boats, ports and auctions; talk to fishermen; look deeper into the values that drive the sector. that's what they expect from you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner sinkevičius and colleagues, recently we’ve heard the term level playing field thrown about in debates around brexit, but no sector is in need of a level playing field more than fisheries. too often our small-scale fishers are squeezed out of the system while large companies make profits at the expense of sustainable stocks. despite flaws in the common fisheries policy, without effective monitoring and enforcement we cannot achieve a level playing field for fishers. nor can we hope to conserve fish for future generations. fairness and sustainability, this is what i fight for every day in the fisheries committee. today we can make life easier for fishers and we can modernise the process. we can implement electronic monitoring to ensure industrial fisheries are not picking and choosing only the most profitable fish while discarding the rest. we can properly implement infringement procedures against rule breakers who put sustainable fisheries at risk. but we must not lower our standards. this is for our fishers and this is for our marine environment. we depend on good legislation and good control in fisheries.
in writing. the eu's response to the current economic crisis has been radically different from that of a decade ago. the european central bank has launched an ambitious debt purchase plan from the outset, and the european investment bank has launched a major programme to support smes. the political consensus needed to launch a european investment plan, the next generation eu programme, financed with community debt, has also been reached. however, the current economic crisis is dragging on longer than we could have predicted a year ago. it is therefore essential that the relaxation of tax rules be continued in order to allow member states to continue to stimulate their economies. in this context, we socialists welcome the maintenance of the general safeguard clause at least until 2022 'recently announced by the commission', while stressing the need for both the ecb and the commission to be prepared to give a new impetus to expansionary fiscal policy if necessary.
in writing. – when discussing the covid pandemic, the first thoughts always go to the victims. after that comes the economic hardship that many are going through. in all of this, public intervention, at both european as well as national level, has been crucial in cushioning the impact. this should clearly continue, ideally focusing on future-oriented investment. at a national level, state aid and the related eu’s temporary framework have been a lifesaver in many sectors and countries. the commission, in its various statements, asserted that it is committed to ensure a coordinated and consistent response. yet, figures published show that the level of state aid between member states differ immensely. although state aid rules apply equally to all, the resources available to national governments do not. this discrepancy is leading to an intensification of the already existing socioeconomic cleavage between european regions and member states. in all of this, i call on the commission to take the needed steps to maintain a level playing field between member states. most importantly, the commission needs to assure that money granted in the form of state aid does not end up being used by benefitting companies to take over struggling companies in other member states.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, georgia remains a key associated partner of the european union. with georgia we have an ambitious association agreement that has offered closer political association and economic integration with the eu. however, unhappily, the political situation in the country has been a cause for serious concern over recent months owing to an increasing political polarisation. this situation risks undermining georgia’s democracy. i repeat our strong view that it is now important for all parties to step up efforts to de-escalate the situation and come together to identify and agree on common ground. the president of the european council has just visited georgia and had the opportunity to meet with the president, the prime minister and the leaders of the main opposition parties. during this visit, he was engaged in discussions with his political parties and upon his return, in cooperation with the high representative, he gave a mandate to a european union civil servant, mr christian danielsson, to engage in these eu-backed mediation efforts. we look forward to seeing the georgian parties’ progress with this urgent dialogue. we will follow this process closely. the head of the european union delegation in georgia will also facilitate these mediation efforts. all sides need to contribute to agreeing on a compromise, respect the government to provide inclusive leadership, putting the interests of the georgian people first, and all actors need to refrain from provocative actions and rhetoric. in terms of the elements for progress, the european union sees as priorities the consolidation of democracy, including electoral reform, political stability and an inclusive parliamentarian process. a fair, independent, yet accountable judiciary is also of paramount importance. these are prerequisites for georgia to further deepen its partnership with the european union in line with the association agreement. we will have an opportunity to assess progress soon when we meet in the association council with the georgian prime minister on 16 march. this will be an important date and i sincerely hope that we can report on progress then. no country can thrive in a situation of political crisis for long, and the georgian political actors owe it to the georgian people to offer a stable political context in which the country could recover from the covid pandemic to build back better and reap the potential benefits of our association agreement to the fullest. along with president michel, we will encourage all political actors in georgia to commit fully to the dialogue in a constructive spirit and with a view to pursuing mutually agreeable outcomes in the interests of a stable, democratic and reform-oriented georgia, able to successfully advance on its pro-european path. we also supported georgia’s reform efforts as well as the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country, within its internationally recognised borders and with peaceful conflict resolution. the work of the eu special representative for the south caucasus and the crisis in georgia and the work of the european union monitoring mission demonstrate this strong commitment. i also value the role of the european parliament as a support for democracy in georgia and look forward to closely cooperating on such opportunities.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we are all following the political developments in georgia with great concern. the political situation in the country has rapidly deteriorated. therefore, i support the efforts of all facilitators to relaunch and strengthen dialogue between the opposition and the government. georgia is indeed facing numerous challenges, such as the covid-19 pandemic, economic development, social cohesion and security. therefore, political leaders need to overcome this political crisis quickly and to find long—term solutions together. the way forward should include an ambitious electoral reform, a rule of law and court reform, also addressing politicised justice, power sharing in parliament, including the setting up of the investigative commission and potentially new elections, and also the preparation for the local elections planned for autumn this year. as the high representative just mentioned, next week’s eu-georgia association council in brussels will hopefully state some progress that has been made in the dialogue. let me wish the newly appointed envoy, christian danielsson, and also our eu ambassador in tbilisi, carl hartzell, and their teams all the best in overcoming the current political tensions in this great country.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, high representative, dear colleagues, recent political events in georgia illustrate a systematic political crisis that prevents further democratic consolidation. the fact that georgia ranks 91st among 165 countries in last year’s democracy index reconfirms the seriousness of the situation. georgia can be commended for its open economy and structural reform efforts, but we cannot ignore a long list of work in progress in the political field. georgia in political crisis cannot become a hostage of long and fruitless deliberations, as society demands continuous progress in fulfilling its pro-european ambitions. i welcome a timely visit of president michel to tbilisi and his personal engagement in search of a durable solution. either side of the conflict should not interpret his six-point plan, which includes the possibility of holding early elections, as carte blanche. resolving such a severe political crisis requires involvement, compromise, mutual respect and full adherence to an agreement reached by both sides. actors of the georgian political system must understand that citizens’ trust in government and public institutions, the independent judiciary and the media, and the inclusive power-sharing, are key prerequisites for justifying georgia’s european aspirations.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, for decades, i supported georgia advocating the country’s euro—atlantic vocation. i still do. but the time has come to voice my deepest possible concern. since june 2019, we have heard so much bad news coming from tbilisi, probably with one exception, the agreement of 8 march of the previous year, marking an accord between the opposition and the government. bad news culminated in the period after the elections, with the recent storming of the opposition party headquarters and the arbitrary detention of the leader. i hope for president michel’s mediation. i strongly support the newly appointed eu special envoy to tbilisi. we must all put the utmost effort into facilitating dialogue, probably leading to new inclusive elections.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i have to say it’s hard not to see the irony in this discussion. last month we had people queuing up to condemn the arrest of opposition leader navalny for breaching his bail conditions, blanket media coverage, meps clamouring for the head of the high representative, sanctions imposed ... this month with the arrest of another opposition leader, nika melia, following the storming of his offices again for bail breaches. not a word in the media. charles michel visits, invites everybody to dinner and tells everybody to calm down. and the meps are happy with that. is it any wonder that the interventionists are getting worried. seriously here? i support the stance of not taking sides. i support the call for dialogue and diplomacy. of course, the georgian government and opposition should be talking, and while they’re at it, they might talk about the devastating impact on georgian citizens of years of neoliberal shock therapy and free market reforms implemented by all of them. they might talk about the human rights abuses implemented by all. the truth is, the eu’s non-intervention is because you’re happy to do business with all of them. we should advocate dialogue and non-interventionism everywhere, not just in georgia.
madam president, one of the very first benefits of ireland joining the european union in 1973 was the abolishment of a law restricting the employment of married women. forty—eight years later, we are still struggling to address the issue of gender gaps in our labour market. today, the gender pay gap stands at 14% and the gender pension gap at 30%. successive lockdowns have widened the existing gender divide in unpaid care work that was already keeping more women than men out of our labour market. women in ireland and all over europe, i salute you on the week of international women’s day, with many of you having no choice but to step back from your paid work to care for and educate family members during this pandemic. there was never a more important time to use the european semester process to focus on addressing the barriers to women’s full and equal participation in the workplace and to reduce the long—term impact covid is having on women’s employment, women’s pay and women’s career development.
madam president, commission, council, colleagues, last week three polish lgbtqi activists were acquitted of charges deemed to be offending religious beliefs – a victory for freedom of expression. the judge said there is no provision in the catechism of the catholic church that excludes non-heteronormative persons. there is love, mutual respect and understanding. this declaration is a way for our communities, on the second anniversary of the polish lgbt-free zones, to show that equality isn’t a buzz word, but an eu right. i’m proud on this day that the commission has committed to their lgbt+ strategy. i’m proud on this day that the parliament will pass this resolution with a large majority, declaring an lgbtqi freedom zone. i am proud, on this day, that my epp group colleagues contributing to this debate are actively supporting the rights of all citizens, not some, but all. to those in this chamber who do not believe in equality, let me echo once again what the polish judge said: there is love, mutual respect and understanding. no matter how much you attempt to undermine our efforts to secure equal rights for both men and women, you will lose. we will prevail. finally, madam commissioner, here’s to benjamin and all the children who will call a fair, equal and loving europe their home. (applause)
they're a renew group. the uachtaráin, tá áthas orm labhairt faoi seo inniu mar is an important go mbeadh muinín ag an bpobal the our systems chánachais. there is some concern that the commission has come to its senses in the last decade after investigations by investigators, but there is fear that it will not be investigated by openlux in the next one. first, we must in the hiriseoirí be a mholadh as a gcrógacht agus a seasmhacht, and in the scéala be a nochtadh acu. in the longer term, and more importantly, as we make our decisions, we must deal with the problems in our great cities. the only thing that makes it easier to get out of the house, to get money and other activities, is to get out of the openlux, and that's without a secret. without any reason why we should trade, trade and sharing information has increased among our authorities. we need to know what companies do in the eu, how they are created, why they are created, why they are important, what the laws are. we must find out who is the last survivor. however, caithfimid to be careful to gain an mhian seo agus an di debate seo to mixed le courses cannach eile rud a tharlaíonn go minic anseo. we must be careful not to have a debate on this and any action taken by the union to ensure that it is effective, and that we do not take full responsibility in the member states for tax matters or tax rates.
madam president, it is imperative that the spending of ireland’s modest share of the recovery fund is done in maximum partnership with regions, and especially my own, the north and western regional assembly. post-brexit, the distance from galway, the largest western city in ireland, to brest, the nearest point in any other eu state, is over 800 kilometres. our region has actually slipped in terms of being a developed region to one of being in transition. it begs the question: in transition to what? it is appalling that this has come to pass, but it highlights deep structural and investment issues in the north-west and border area of the irish state, further exacerbated by brexit. the status quo cannot remain. our government needs to listen. ireland’s recovery funding needs to be concentrated into the north and west region, and an investment plan with the rrf structural funds and regional aid put in place for that part of ireland.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the partnership principle ensures that, in the context of cohesion policy, partners at all levels should be involved in the programming process. i think it is extremely important that this principle is actually applied and that the rrf funds do not benefit only a few or even oligarchic structures, but that they benefit the breadth of the economy, the breadth of the people, so that we can get out of the correspondingly difficult times we are currently having in corona and move forward with economic reconstruction. i think it is extremely important that we as a parliament should be able to see as quickly as possible what the member states are actually planning or what the money will be spent on, and very, very quickly to know digitally what has been spent, who has received the money and where it has gone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the resistance from some sides here is a hindrance.
madam president, mr executive vice-president, we have a debate here today that is, in a way, preliminary: the union institutions have completed negotiations on the regulation establishing the recovery and resilience mechanism in a timely manner, and member states are currently developing the corresponding national plans. i would like to add my voice to that of my colleague mr mureşan of the european people's party, who asked the national parliaments to adopt the own resources decision as soon as possible, since we need it to complete this investment programme. i would also like to refer to the spanish plan, although i try not to talk about national issues here: not when my party was in opposition, nor now that it is in government. last week i asked the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the executive vice-president dombrovskis and commissioner gentiloni about this plan, and they said that it was making reasonable progress and that contacts were continuing. i therefore ask mr garicano and mr montserrat not to cooperate from this house with those who question democracy in our country.
madam president, nothing could be truer in the current context than respecting the principle of partnership and transparency in the preparation of national resilience and recovery plans. transparency, good governance and public consultation are key to ensuring sustainable national plans. it is, after all, european money that must benefit all those who have suffered as a result of this crisis. for us, the romanian social democrats, three elements are essential: reflecting the objectives through investments in education, health, environment and digitalisation, reducing regional disparities and respecting the process of consulting local, regional authorities, social partners and presenting the plan to parliament. in conclusion, romania fully supports the eu own resources decision. we are not seeking to block anyone but we, as social democrats, call for transparency and democratic control over the national plan. this is not an electoral programme, but a plan for our citizens!
madam president, as we are entering the final phase of the preparation of the recovery plans, we need to emphasise once again the need to involve regional and local governments in putting them together. it’s indeed an obligation established in the regulation. however, we know that this consultation is not taking place on a general basis. so we expect the commission to make sure that sub-state governments are being heard and having their say, not only in the preparation phase of the recovery plans but also in their implementation. because sub-state authorities, especially those regional governments with significant powers, know better than anyone else the needs of the local economies, businesses and citizens, and many of them have a long and successful experience in managing eu funds and programmes. some of them, like the catalan government, even propose their own ambitious plans. so, ensuring a shared governance of the recovery plans will allow for more efficiency and better results.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the truth is that the territories were neither involved nor consulted by the member states in the preparation of the recovery and resilience plans. however, article 15 of the regulation provides for a report on the consultation process of municipalities, regions, civil society and youth organisations. what plans will they be and what results will they deliver without the input of stakeholders? in addition, in some countries, and i am thinking of my own country, there is a risk that recovery plans do not reflect the needs of less developed regions, such as the south. the extra resources obtained because of the serious economic and social situation in the south must be allocated to it. what about the rewriting of the recovery plan, entrusted to american consultancies such as mckinsey? is the involvement of consultancy firms and multinationals safe, is it compatible with the interests of european citizens? we think not. what does the commission think?
madam president, please! the european union is currently in a huge crisis, and the economic losses are huge. but the crisis is first and foremost a tragedy for millions of individual europeans, who are often left without a job or the ability to run their own businesses overnight. i welcome the european union's response and the creation of a reconstruction fund. however, in order to ensure that the fund is used effectively and goes where it is needed most and where it brings the greatest added value, the national recovery plans must be prepared on the basis of a sound, transparent and wide-ranging public consultation. this fund is a commitment to our children and grandchildren. they're the ones who'll pay for it. we need to leave them with a strong, healthy and resilient economy. at the same time, we must leave them something perhaps more precious: the lesson of solidarity and unity that is so often spoken of in this house. unity and solidarity with the sectors most affected: tourism, gastronomy, trade fairs, events, culture - i could go on and on. these people have no investment capacity today and only limited access to the funds thus structured in the reconstruction fund and the national reconstruction plans. all they have is debt and no credit. i often hear the slogan in the eu institutions: 'leave no one behind'. so no one is left behind. i hope it turns out that it was a real message, and not just a neat, but a slogan.
madam president, i would say to the executive vice—president that local and regional authorities are on the front line when it comes to recovery from covid. so let’s ensure that these local and regional voices are heard as we rebuild. they have the wisdom and the knowledge to do things right. it has to be a bottom—up as well as a top—down recovery. in ireland, the government asked the public for their views, and that is informing the recovery plans. this hasn’t been the case in every country in europe. yet, across europe, we can see local and regional authorities are ready. they are ready to build a—rated homes. they’re ready to roll out walking and cycling infrastructure and public transport. they’re ready to help communities with the digital transformation. national governments must listen. local and regional authorities are ready to fast track a green and digital recovery to the crisis. we must respect their views.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this very useful exchange. the commission shares parliament’s view on the importance of ensuring the effective enforcement of the current geo—blocking rules. we will closely monitor developments and foster dialogue with the industry to identify concrete steps for audiovisual content. we have made a very thorough and serious effort to evaluate the first months of implementation and the need to extend the geo—blocking regulation (gbr) and have taken the european parliament and council’s concerns raised during the negotiations very seriously. the geo—blocking regulation is one first step to remove barriers to cross—border trade. now we want to ensure that the entire ecosystem moves towards an internal market dimension for the benefit of consumers, as the pandemic showed us that this is the necessary outlook for europe. therefore, we want to continue monitoring the implementation of the regulation and possible synergies with other internal market measures – some still to be implemented, such as vat rules for e—commerce and harmonisation of consumer protection rules and, of course, the development of cross—border delivery. on audiovisual content, we want to trigger a large stakeholder dialogue already this year to discuss how to improve access to, and the availability of, audiovisual content across the union. the dialogue aims at setting specific, measurable targets upon which progress will be assessed before considering any follow—up measures, including legislation. we will keep the parliament closely linked to this discussion and look forward to working together to ensure that effective rules are in place that will contribute to a true dialogue and a true digital single market.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – while digital revolution improves access to information, it often faces traditional barriers as well as new types of obstacles preventing the completion of the digital single market. an example of such a barrier is the geo-blocking of content, services and goods. geo-blocking practices discriminate european consumers on grounds of nationality or place of residence within the internal market. in my opinion, refusals of access to digital services or discrimination of consumers driven by geographic partitioning are not compatible with the ambition to create a ubiquitous digital single market in europe. significant delays in implementing the 2018 geo-blocking regulation have negative economic effects. now more than ever, in times of the pandemic, small and medium-sized companies need new opportunities to reach out to new customers. from a customer’s point of view, this would represent a paramount step forward to create equality within the eu, while ensuring a larger choice and the same conditions to all in the entire single market. in this regard, the effective removal of barriers to cross-border access to services and goods, affecting the well-functioning of the digital single market, should be the european commission’s top priority.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the eu's commitment to afghanistan at the geneva conference 2020 by johan van overtveldt, on behalf of the committee on budgets (o-000083/2020 b9-0009/21) (2020/2916 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous wording in any of the debates of this sitting and no blue cards will be accepted. as in the past, there will also be contacts from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
author. – mr president, at the peace, prosperity and self-reliance conference for afghanistan on 24 november 2020, the commission – and precisely the commissioner for international partnerships, jutta urpilainen – made the pledge of eur 1.2 billion for the period 2021-2025 for long-term and emergency assistance. this pledge was made without first informing or consulting parliament as a budgetary authority, so we learned about the pledge from the commission’s press release. let me remind you that the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission provides, in point 30 that: ‘before making, at donors’ conferences, financial pledges which involve new financial undertakings and require the agreement of a budgetary authority, the commission shall inform the budgetary authority and examine its remarks.’ the afghanistan pledge was one more example of the commission failing to respect the spirit and letter of a framework agreement. to take just this current legislative term, you are probably aware of a letter the chair of the committee on budgets, mr van overtveldt, sent on 20 february 2020, following the pledge made for albania three days before, and with such short notice that it made it virtually impossible for us to judge and assess the pledge. in his letter a year ago, the budgets committee chair asked for timely information on any international pledges so that they could be discussed by members of the committee on budgets and the commissioner as early as possible. this request, also made informally, was left without due follow-up. on 18 february this year, the commission took a similar approach when it informed the committee on budgets on a thursday night about the intention to make a pledge of eur 500 million within the covax initiative on the next day. this is simply not acceptable. this is of course not about substance. this is about the mood of cooperation between the commission and the european parliament. and that is what we need to change. i hear from some at the commission that parliament should not be consulted because international pledges do not fall under point 30 of the framework agreement. let me say on this point that it is not up to the commission alone to judge what falls under the framework agreement and what does not. we are able to judge it and we do. you are probably aware that timely and full information about future pledges is also necessary for proper proceedings of the annual budget. a small illustration: the syria conference is approaching at the end of this month and the commission is expected to make a similar pledge to those it has made in the past. the pledge should be included in the draft budget for 2022, which is to be presented in june. without such a pledge the budgetary authority could choose to reorient the limited resources to the other areas. could i therefore at the end, on behalf of the committee of budgets, ask you to indicate firstly why the commission did not seek to inform the budgetary authority before making the pledge for afghanistan in november 2020? why have you not followed up the letter of the chair of the committee on budgets of 20 february 2020? and looking to the future, how do you intend to make sure that the commission fully respects the relevant provision of our interinstitutional agreement? let me underline what is obvious: we need timely information in order to properly assess the pledges. we expect you to inform us via the appropriate channels about the commission’s intention for the upcoming syria conference. and finally, apart from syria and the other cases, could you indicate whether the commission plans currently any other financial pledges falling under the provisions of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, special greetings to my great-grandfather, the budget commissioner, janusz lewandowski, to warszawa, so i suppose he has a very good understanding of our situation. and indeed, on 24 november 2020, at the 2020 peace, prosperity and self-reliance conference, the commission, on behalf of the european union, made a pledge of eur 1.2 billion in assistance for afghanistan for the period 2021 to 2025, maintaining the level of commitment made at the 2016 pledging conference. this expression of political commitment to continue supporting afghanistan, which was welcomed by the honourable president of this house in a letter to the speaker of the house in afghanistan, was made subject to the finalisation of the multiannual financial framework and the sectoral legislation, as well as to afghanistan’s continued commitment to democracy, rule of law, human rights and gender equality. the afghanistan pledging conference marked a widely-shared consensus among its 90 participants, that the afghanistan peace negotiations, which started on 12 september 2020 in doha, represented an historic opportunity to end the devastating war and bring peace, stability and prosperity to the country. in an evolving international landscape, it was essential for the union to send a strong signal of support to the people of afghanistan, which is challenged not only by armed conflict but also severe humanitarian and development needs. the strong conditionality that came with this political pledge for afghanistan to continue its commitment to democracy, rule of law, human rights and gender equality was intended to back the position of the islamic republic of afghanistan in the difficult peace negotiations process with the taliban. i wish to confirm that the commission remains committed to inform, of course, the budgetary authority before making public announcements or pledges about financial undertakings for which the budgetary authority’s agreement is required, as set out in point 30 of the framework agreement on the relations between the european parliament and the european commission. the financing pledge for afghanistan did not require any reinforcement of the un external action instruments through a transfer draft amending budget or any similar budgetary procedure. therefore, it didn’t represent a new specific financial undertaking, i quote, ‘which required the agreement of the budgetary authority’. most pledges, including the one made for afghanistan, relate to funding from geographical or other envelopes within instruments and budget lines set out within the framework of the mff and the annual budget procedure without requiring any special reinforcement. this is why the commission’s pledge was made subject to the finalisation of the multiannual financial framework and the sectoral legislation. thankfully, pledges don’t necessarily represent unforeseen new financial contributions. they are very often a public statement similar to other press announcements of the programming and contracting of normal eu funds as part of the commission’s ongoing efforts to communicate widely on the use to which eu funds are put. the commission strives to restrict all public announcements, including pledges, until after the request of the budgetary authority has been submitted if any reinforcement is needed.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we do not question the merits of the amounts allocated by the commission. we do not question the goodness. we question the form. it is important to respect the rules, the regulations, the interinstitutional agreements and never to forget that parliament is an arm of the budgetary authority. i hope that this incident, these questions, will not be repeated and i am sure that they will not be repeated. and it would at least be good if the budgetary authority had been informed before the commission took the commitment, even if it was in line with the proposed budget, the current multiannual financial framework and did not involve any budgetary increase. i therefore hope that in future the rules and parliament will be respected, that this situation will not be repeated and that instead of discussing formal matters we will be able to discuss substantive matters which are important to the citizens of europe. but of course the european parliament must always defend transparency, legality and democratic legitimacy, which are essential.
mr fernandes, you possibly might have realised that i was a moment hesitating whether i’d give you the floor. i want to clearly say that you rightly hit the point. so the headline is possibly a little bit misunderstanding on the agenda. but i clearly want to remind, the issue is the incident itself, and not the particular reasons. so although the commissioner stressed a bit other things, i want to clearly indicate that i will invert any colleague who tries to bring the posts of the money into the debate. i just want to announce that. you made the point and i see ms gardiazabal has the same intention. i clearly want to intend that i will stop any debate which goes into the detail of the target of the money.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i think it is important to make that clarification. i was going to start my speech there, because the commissioner has given a lot of information, but our oral question is obviously not about the content of the donations, which we support and will always support. our problem is that point 30 of the framework agreement has not been respected. and our problem is that the budgetary authority has not been given the necessary information. we know you don't have to ask us for permission. in fact, if authorization had been required, they could not have made the contribution without it. but that point does say that they have to inform the budgetary authority and examine their comments. and this is not what happened. it's ridiculous to be here on a thursday afternoon with this oral question. but the problem is that they did it once with albania, we complained formally in writing, they did it again with afghanistan and now we have to deal with this point on a thursday afternoon in the plenary. so i hope it doesn't happen again.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the european union and its member states’ participation and contribution to the stabilisation and reconstruction process in afghanistan is a long–term commitment. i welcome the fact that the 2020 geneva conference was used by the european commission to link a continuous european union development aid to the outcomes of the afghan peace process, which should preserve the political, economic and social achievements of the afghan people. the european parliament is closely following the afghan peace talks and remains insistent on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially the rights of women, children and minority groups. i also note the fact that the financial pledge made by the commission at the geneva conference was made on a unilateral basis, in defiance of the institutional framework for decision–making. i urge the responsible officials to take a full responsibility and ensure that in the future similar decisions are taken in a transparent manner. we need to guide our afghan partners by example and practice what we preach ourselves.
thank you very much, mr krah. mr krah, i know that you are a master of english, despite my clear warning to leave the field of the question. i'm calling you to order.
thank you very much, mrs kruk. mrs kruk, that is a nice attempt, but you did the same thing as others, of course, by first speaking about where the pledge should go and then using the last eight seconds of your speech to talk about the underlying facts. i'm calling you to order, too.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i think we can’t look at the pledge without looking at the context. afghanistan is a ruined country, ruined by decades of western intervention: the latest, a so—called peace process that should have been afghan—led and afghan—owned. but actually, it’s no more than the cia machinery denying the future of millions of afghanis without even bothering to ask them, while 11 000 nato troops remain from 36 countries. and we’re here looking at about eur 1.2 billion pledged in long—term and emergency assistance up to 2025. it’s not even a dollar a head a year. it’s absolutely nothing. and even at that, it’s predicated on the disgusting new agreement on migration linked to the afghani government having to take back refugees, including children, who have fled this devastated country, seeking refuge, as is their right. and we want to send them back. i think it’s sickening. i think the parliament should have had a right to intervene in that before the decision was made.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, not every discussion in the european parliament is about life and death, but this is. the increase in domestic violence across europe of 30% during the pandemic gives truth to the pervasiveness of this issue. to withdraw support for the istanbul convention is unconscionable. to see a major country such as turkey opt out is shameful, inhumane and wrong. the misunderstandings that have been allowed to fester by leaders in some countries are disgraceful and threaten the lives of women and girls. women are being attacked every moment of every day in every country around the world. women are being attacked, and they are dying. the istanbul convention simply ensures fundamental and basic human rights and safety for women. today the leaders of the member states will meet and turkey is on the agenda. prime ministers from across europe must give the issue more than a passing glance or comment. turkey has long been a geopolitical discussion for europe. if europe is to be a beacon of light for human rights around the world, then let’s start with the basics: being safe in one’s home. i call on the eu leaders to stand up for turkish women today and to know that in europe they have supporters and advocates. let’s call it out; let’s end violence against women.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. when we look around the world and see that oppositionists are being persecuted in myanmar, oppositionists are being persecuted in turkey, oppositionists are being persecuted in saudi arabia, i think it is a shame that european surveillance technology is being used. in this respect, i very much welcome the fact that we are passing legislation today that will finally make export controls on surveillance technologies law in the european union. we have this dual-use legislation, where it's just looking at whether a truck is used to transport a tank or construction materials. but these days, it's not about the truck anymore, it's about hacking an iphone, creating a profile for the movement, tracking the opposition. so, it's good and right that this is getting under control. we've made sure that modern technologies -- like facial recognition, emotion recognition -- are also covered. we have made it clear that the technology of the future will be incorporated here as well. we have reintroduced the criterion of human rights violation. the only criteria used so far have been military use or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. we have also ensured that there is more transparency, that there is an annual report on what is exported and where it is exported to. and we've put a duty of care on companies to be very careful about what happens to their technology. so let's put it to a vote. i would like to thank the commissioner for the cooperation he has shown and also the shadow rapporteurs.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner šefčovič, you are very welcome to the debate. the eu sees itself as the guardian of human rights in europe and worldwide. the sakharov prize, awarded annually by the european parliament, is a symbol of this aspiration. it was therefore only logical that the dual-use regulation should seek to severely restrict the use of surveillance technology by authoritarian regimes. because we must not forget: european technology is used to arrest, torture and murder critics of the regime. but this regulation is a pyrrhic victory which cannot guarantee the essential protection criteria. this regulation makes little sense. i find it more than regrettable that the german presidency of the eu council wanted to bring the dual-use regulation on bending and breaking to a swift but incomplete conclusion after the council had blocked the negotiations for years. because a flawed regulation does not help human rights. the result is legislation that only takes into account ancient techniques and hardly limits the export of modern surveillance systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main problem here is clearly the definition of 'digital surveillance goods' and the catch-all clause. both are flawed because they only apply to covert surveillance systems. most surveillance systems are thus not detected because they are not hidden but are used in a visible manner, such as surveillance cameras. even certain technology for tapping information and telecommunications systems can be easily exported because it was designed for harmless purposes, for example for telephone billing - hence the term dual use. the same technique, but applied differently, can also record conversations. the bill failed to make a good distinction here. the analysis programmes which can be used to identify opponents of the regime can unfortunately still be exported. the so-called catch-all clause was designed to accommodate rapidly evolving technology. however, it is not possible to define precisely whether or not a breach of the dual-use regulation exists in all surveillance systems today. the only remaining hope is that member states will close at least some of the gaps by introducing stronger national laws. we have clearly missed the opportunity and thus the european momentum to help the critics of the regime who are suffering.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, like colleagues i’d like to welcome the final text of the regulation before us. it contains a number of important new extensions in the scope of the dual-use regulation as well as clarifications on control and cooperation mechanisms which definitely will improve monitoring and transparency. we welcome the measures around the new technologies legislation in terms of biotech and ai, and indeed, despite resistance from the council, the compromise proposal expanding the catch-all provision to make it obligatory to obtain authorisation for dual-use items not included in the control list if the item is being intended for use in internal repression or a serious violation of human rights – although i find it hard to see any situation where anybody would admit that fact, but undoubtedly many of them are being used for that. so i do think we have to be wary when we come to civilian items that can have military applications, particularly when they’re going to serial rights abusers like saudi arabia and israel, and that’s why i think it’s a bit of a hard neck for people in here to get up and talk about china and russia when the eu has been aiding and arming israel for years, despite its human rights violations and flagrant disregard for international law. the fact that the eu is the second-largest exporter to saudi arabia and the uae countries which have been pummelling yemen into the dust, murdering civilians, starving babies – clearly human rights isn’t really a problem for us when we’re selling arms, so why welcome this? we might want to stop our military activity, full stop.
madam president, i say to president von der leyen: thank you for that powerful and important speech on gender equality. women across europe and around the world watched the scene from turkey with shock, and indeed dismay, at the all too familiar feeling of being sidelined and not treated equally. it is not an exaggeration to say what happened in turkey is a denigration of all women. our relationship, the eu’s relationship, with turkey must be grounded in values. president von der leyen, if this can happen to you as president of the european commission in public, it can and does happen to women daily in many settings. the symbolism of this event speaks to the experience and past experiences of women. so we must accelerate the pace of change in relation to equality, gender, race and lgbtqi, plus rights. let’s fact it, we live in unfinished democracies and unfinished economies as far as gender is concerned. you are leading the way in your commission globally with a variety of important initiatives. but we have had a 30% increase during covid of domestic violence across europe. so it is more important than ever to stop the scourge of gender-based violence. if countries do not agree to advance the istanbul convention, we must take legislative action, as you have outlined. if we cannot take a strong action on violence, we have no credibility. colleagues, women must not wait because we know when women are present it yields better results economically and socially. a post-covid recovery plan is an opportunity for our member states to accelerate progress. it’s time for the challenge of gender equality to be grasped, and grasped with energy and consistency by male leaders too.
madam president, minister, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. it is good that, albeit at the last minute, an agreement between the eu and the uk has been reached, because it is beneficial for both parties. its part trade agreement is a success for the eu27 because its absence would create far more economic problems, because it is the union that has a clear trade surplus with the uk. the surplus has been over £100 billion a year in recent years. trade in food with the uk alone is worth €40 billion a year, with a trade surplus of €16 billion, making it an important market for european agriculture. however, the problems on the agricultural side are the absence of obligations to protect geographical indications and protected designations of origin, the absence of safeguards against so-called substitution trading practices and article 36 of the agreement allowing the uk to take action to restrict imports from the union in the event of serious economic and social difficulties without proving that these imports contributed to those difficulties, which is the standard in the world trade organisation agreements. the statistics for the first months of the agreement between the union and the united kingdom show a decrease in trade turnover on both the export and import side, but this may be due to the covid-19 situation and the stocks made by companies before the end of the previous year. importantly, there are no longer any problems at check-in points in either dunkirk or calais, and the new procedures are being implemented on the uk side in stages, with many simplifications. the polish delegation to the ecr will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement.
madam president, vice—president of the commission šefčovič, the border in ireland has been a central part of these negotiations. it divides townlands, farms, even homes; it makes no economic, political or geographical sense. for centuries, britain maintained its presence by force of arms. when it could no longer occupy the whole island, it imposed an unwanted border leading to continued tension and conflict. unfortunately, this border remains a point of tension while it exists. the conversation on irish unity as provided for in the good friday agreement has now taken centre stage in ireland, north and south, and many people in the north now see unity as their way back into the eu. the majority of the north voted against leaving the eu, with many viewing the irish peace process as a european success story. the tca protects our peace process by providing a special status for the north of ireland but there is a democratic deficit. under the tca, elected representatives in the north of ireland have no role or no voice in shaping legislation they will be bound by. the importance of this parliament’s resolution is that it calls for dialogue between the eu and political representatives and civic society in the north of ireland. let me be clear, this dialogue is vital and will contribute to reducing tensions and allowing the people of the whole island of ireland to define their european future together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all know that. last year the united kingdom left the european union and, since the beginning of this year, the trade and cooperation agreement negotiated just before christmas has been provisionally in force. just to clarify what brexit means: in january this year, the uk's gross domestic product fell by 3% compared with the previous month, and exports from the uk to the european union fell by 40%. according to the european commission's latest calculations, the uk's departure will reduce the european union's gross domestic product by half a percentage point by the end of next year, while the economic strength of the united kingdom will decline by more than 2%. brexit is a disaster for europe, for us in the european union, but above all for the citizens of the united kingdom, and the promises that the brexiteers have made to the citizens - much of it is not true, and brexit is still a disadvantage for all involved on both sides of the channel. it is also a good sign that we, the european union, are now voting in plenary on the trade and cooperation agreement. we have also taken the time to examine the agreement. it is true that we have worked hard in the committees over the past four months and have found that this agreement also meets our expectations. but the uk government is still doing too little to fully implement the withdrawal agreement and the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. this is the part that will be the litmus test for our future partnership. we have concluded our agreements in a spirit of cooperation, cooperation and goodwill, and i call on the british government in particular to show this goodwill in the forthcoming talks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the wound left by brexit is still open for those who have always believed in the european project. despite this wound, the union has shown that it can start anew with a new impetus, which, by responding to the pandemic crisis, lays the foundations for a more modern and sustainable europe, capable of going beyond these national interests that have weighed so heavily in recent years. brexit and the subsequent attitude of the british authorities are an example of this. i would like to thank our chief negotiator, michel barnier, and the whole negotiating team of the commission for the extensive work they have done. as a parliament we have tried to analyse this work in a responsible way, demanding and obtaining reasonable time to exercise our prerogatives, even though the conclusion of the negotiations at the last minute put the democratic nature of the whole process at serious risk. a risk we can now say was worth taking: the text we are about to vote on is an ambitious agreement with innovative elements which must form the basis of the union's future trade policy, starting with a level playing field based on the clause of non-regression of production, social, environmental and economic standards. a solid basis made binding by the possibility of unilateral measures to distort competition. we must continue to build on this foundation. the agreement cannot be a point of arrival, but it is a starting point for future relations which can promote the interests of our citizens and our businesses and overcome the administrative and bureaucratic barriers which continue to slow down the flow of goods between the two sides of the channel. the creation of the interparliamentary assembly will play a crucial role in this process, provided that it is given the right not only to identify areas requiring greater cooperation but also to make binding recommendations to the partnership council, involving the social partners. president, the historic mistake of brexit, as well as the lack of vision repeatedly demonstrated by the british government, cannot lead us to believe that the future relationship between the union and the united kingdom will be limited to trade. we have enormous strategic interests in common: it is up to us to continue to work towards the goal of reducing the distances which at present seem insurmountable.
madam president, again and again people ask me, like probably many of you: what advantages does it actually have for me that we are part of the european union? i would then usually highlight things like the political cooperation between neighbouring countries that has led to a long-lasting peace inside of the eu, the obvious economic advantages, freedom of movement for eu citizens, the erasmus programme, practical things like the abolishment of roaming charges, and so on and so on. with brexit, more and more of really everyday life examples pile up, like for example this dress. i ordered it in january online from a small-scale tailor in england for eur 90. i received it about a month later and had to pay eur 48 of fees and taxes – more than half of its original price. i honestly thought that this cannot be true, so i contacted the belgian customs authorities, and here is their reply to my request: ‘dear sir/madam, your package arrived on 16 february 2021 and unfortunately has to be cleared through customs. if this parcel had arrived before 1 january 2021 it would have been free of taxes.’ just another example of the obvious. brexit is not a project of freedom, it is a project of building barriers. brexit is not a project of prosperity, it is a project of bureaucracy. brexit is not making britain big and global, it is making it smaller and inward-looking. and this deal can, unfortunately, not change any of this – but it can be a starting point for moving back closer together, for rebuilding what brexit has destroyed. this deal might not be a final answer to the challenges that lie ahead of all of us, but it can be a basis for conversation. so let us take this deal, expand it where it is incomplete, change it where it needs changing, and build a relationship that can actually be sustainable and mutually beneficial again.
madam president, brexit is here to stay. as a sovereign country, the uk had its right to leave and that choice should be respected. in the meantime, let brexit be a warning for the european union because the direction our union is heading will only lead to more countries wanting to leave. our combined fiscal deficits is at nightmare proportions. the european commission has even started issuing common debt and the european central bank prints money like there were no tomorrow. we are at a crossroads. are we heading towards this federalised european union or do we want a community of sovereign european nation—states? it is often stated that my generation is the so—called anti—brexit generation. well, i’m standing here today in front of you as a representative of a new generation of conservatives that doesn’t want your open borders, that doesn’t want to pay for the excessive debt that is needed for capital transfers from north to south and that doesn’t want an overarching, ever—expanding bureaucracy that tells us what we can or cannot do. let brexit be the sparkle that ignites true reform in the european union. an eu where sovereignty is no longer a dirty word but instead the cornerstone of our common future.
madam president, madam secretary of state, mr vice-president, the trade and cooperation agreement between the european union and the united kingdom marks a new stage in the european union's trade policy. and it could not be otherwise because, of course, the united kingdom has an absolutely unique and special place in the context of its relationship with the european continent. there is no other state or country that has the history of relationship with the european union that the united kingdom has, and so this agreement had to have this uniqueness, it had to have this particularity. but there is one point which is very important and which applies to all of us europeans, and i shall now turn to it. we must stop talking about resentment, even about revenge, and about rivalry with our british friends. it is essential to realise that there is no europe and no affirmation of europe without the british contribution. there may be a european union, but there will be no europe. and so, while we must be very firm, for example, on the irish question, for example, in ensuring that environmental conditions, social conditions are met in a fair way between the two sides, we must not be swayed by a discourse, which we see so often, which is a discourse of some arrogance and some disdain that i think will always have a negative effect on these relations. never forget this: europe is today under various threats, particularly from the east, with russia and turkey, and also with china, and the united kingdom will always be central to the balance and political health of the european union. that's what we must not forget today.
madam president, at the end of every chapter it’s right to reflect on everything one benefited from and was concerned about. i think our negotiating team did a great job, but my general impression is that our uk partners mostly addressed the latter. with the many consequences of brexit, i especially regret their decision not to continue participating in programmes such as erasmus. this house has stressed many times the significance of protecting the rights of eu citizens in the uk and vice versa. therefore i call on the uk government to resolve the unjust discrimination of five eu member states as regards the working visa fees. i also call on the uk government to ensure that the eu delegation to the uk has an appropriate diplomatic status. furthermore, i want to reiterate the importance of the good friday agreement in maintaining peace and stability in northern ireland. the recent riots were very disturbing, and i believe that we need to send a strong message to support the best possible relationship between communities. in all further steps with the uk, i would also emphasise the role of the european parliament. we have been very constructive and i believe we need to be fully involved in future relations. that is why i would welcome the formation of the joint european parliament—uk parliament partnership assembly as a valuable asset for cooperation. finally, as regards our foreign, security and defence policy, i call for more ambition in our cooperation. we have many mutual issues, security challenges and an increasingly multifaceted international environment, with topics ranging from china, russia and the western balkans to combating climate change. i firmly believe we can cooperate better. however, it’s up to the uk government to show willingness to build and develop a mutual beneficial membership.
mr president, it's been almost five years. the day the british decided by a narrow majority to leave us, and in my view still a historic mistake and the beginning of uncertain times. today we look ahead and there is a cooperation agreement on the table. is it a perfect chord? no, i'm not going. it could have been more ambitious and the role of our parliament could have been greater. brexit has hit everyone, and especially our businesses, very hard. in flanders alone, companies are facing a drop in turnover of up to 6%, and trade with the uk has also become 5% more expensive. and yet it is a genuine agreement that minimises the negative effects, a compromise that will provide legal certainty for citizens and businesses. but not all problems are job related. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly spent. we at renew europe expect the uk to honour its commitments. a good agreement can only be based on mutual trust. both the withdrawal agreement and the agreement on our future relationship must be implemented as quickly and fully as possible. we are going to vote in favour of this cooperation agreement, but it is not a blank cheque. we as a parliament will be watching very closely to see that our british friends are honouring their commitments, and if they do not honour a promise, we will intervene. trust is essential to a successful relationship.
madam president, today is another step in what has been a very, very long goodbye, as we bid a final farewell to our nearest neighbours and vote on the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement. from an irish perspective there is little to celebrate. like my colleagues in the green efa group here in parliament, i am hopeful that the new relationship with the uk will be a strong and positive one, preserving and building on long—standing cooperation and mindful of a mutual respect for fundamental rights. i do also, however, want to sound a note of caution when i say it is vital that standards are not sacrificed. as we cooperate in governing and protecting our shared seas, the uk must not backtrack on environmental protection and marine biodiversity. in fisheries, we must see the end of tensions if we are to sustainably manage stocks together. let’s also endeavour to designate joint marine protected areas of great mutual benefit to the uk, to the eu and to our shared oceans. also peace on our island is crucial as a social, environmental and economic stability. ireland’s offer to fund the erasmus programme for northern ireland is one important way of supporting these aims and rewarding our younger generations rather than punishing them for political decisions of their elders. in ireland, we have a phrase ‘mol an óige agus tiocfaidh sí’ – encourage the youth and they will flourish.
madam president, the trade and cooperation agreement is a disaster for irish fishing and coastal communities. ireland is losing 15% of its share of fish quota. the quota transfers in the agreement are hugely disproportionate and massively unfair on ireland in comparison to other coastal member states. ireland’s mackerel, prawn, white fish and herring quotas would be decimated. irish fishermen and —women want rebalanced, fair quotas. they will not accept the decommissioning of boats. decommissioning of boats would mean decommissioning communities, communities like duncannon, kilmore quay, dunmore east, castletownbere in southern ireland. they’ve had enough of it. when the eu-uk deal is done and dusted, the eu needs to look at getting concessions from the bigger member states and give irish fishermen and —women quotas that have some measure of fairness. but the brexit adjustment reserve is also vital for ireland and especially for our fishing communities. the commission’s proposal would at least protect those member states worst affected by brexit. however, the draft report on the reserve by both the budgets and fisheries committee rapporteurs include a number of amendments which would significantly reduce ireland’s percentage of the reserve fund. the amendments are designed to favour the larger member states. the fund is supposed to be a solidarity instrument and the commission’s allocation method for the fund is fair. lastly, it’s mad that we had no problem to agreeing to continued cooperation with the uk over nato. the majority of irish people want nothing to do with nato’s warmongering agenda.
madam president, commissioner, this week we will be voting on the trade and cooperation agreement with a heavy heart – i think most of us, anyway – and i hope the day will come when we will be together in this chamber again with our british friends, determining the future of this continent together, rather than negotiating almost as opponents. i fear that part of this agreement has been a bit underexposed. there’s been a lot of attention for trade, fisheries and other aspects, but the whole chapter to do with security, police and justice cooperation and migration, has been negotiated in a very different spirit. i have to say that i’m worried about the implementation of that part of the agreement because, unlike the other parts, which are related to trade and so forth, i do feel that here we cannot always rely entirely on the eu institutions, including the european commission, unfortunately, for proper enforcement. looking at the adequacy decision that the commission is set to adopt to underpin the cooperation with the uk, we know it is legally flawed – we know that, the commission knows it, and it’s deciding that adequacy decision for purely political reasons, and once again, a couple of years from now, we will be before the european court of justice. i hope that the commission is, this time, going to be more strict and enforce properly, and also listen to the calls of the european parliament.
mr president, the united kingdom has left the european union by a sovereign decision of its people, which must be respected. some of the catastrophic scenarios, which have been decreed a thousand times, have not yet come to pass. what benefits or what losses this exit will bring, time will tell, time and the policies followed on this and the other side of the channel. the question now is what future relationship the european union should have with the united kingdom. it is clear, however, that leaving the european union does not necessarily mean either catastrophe or isolation. it is possible and desirable to establish a close relationship of cooperation between states, respecting the rights of citizens, the sovereignty of each state and beneficial to all concerned. we doubt that this agreement will be such a relationship, and that is why we also stress that this agreement should not close the door to bilateral agreements which, in recognition of closer relations between the united kingdom and other european union states, may be in this spirit.
mr president, i want to thank all my colleagues for their support to ireland over the last number of very difficult years. i want to give a special thanks to michel barnier, and of course to commissioner šefčovič, who is putting so much time and energy into the current work in relation to this issue. it is timely to remind ourselves of our former colleague john hume, who passed away last year. he once said, ‘in the darkest days of our conflict, the eu was a powerful inspiration, giving us the confidence that one day a peaceful ireland would become possible.’ that indeed proved to be the case. let us not forget john hume, let us not forget the bond that he helped to forge between northern ireland and the eu, and most importantly, let us never forget the peace that he craved. today is the right day to ratify the uk-eu trade and cooperation agreement. it’s a strong foundation stone and it gives certainty to everyone. it is time to move forward. but the work of parliament does not end here. we cannot forget northern ireland, where tensions have reignited. this house and our eu institutions cannot accept a situation where a bomb can be placed under the car of a police service of northern ireland (psni) officer near where her three—year—old daughter sits. we should never underestimate the fragility of peace in northern ireland and the real people whose livelihoods – and lives, indeed – are at risk. twenty years on from the good friday agreement, many of the rights—based commitments still need to be implemented. we must ensure they are. the northern ireland protocol is a solution to brexit; it is not the problem. through the protocol, we can resolve the trade friction that has arisen. there is a responsibility on both sides, the eu and the uk, to be constructive and find solutions and, i would say, in a timely way. colleagues, today as an mep for dublin and ireland, i urge you to ratify this agreement in the interest of peace, in the interests of stability, in the interests of ireland and the interests of europe. with your help, the future can be bright for northern ireland.
mr president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, i would first of all like to join in congratulating the whole negotiating team headed by michel barnier, because i believe that this agreement will fully safeguard the fundamental interests of the european union and its member states, the integrity of the single market and regulatory autonomy. i think that a great deal of work has been done, but despite this, in the fisheries sector, unfortunately, some of our worst fears seem to be coming true. we are at the end of april and we have not yet reached agreement on the tacs and quotas for this year, which is essential to know clearly what is the responsibility of each of the parties. i hope and trust that this situation will not recur every year. the fisheries sector has been one of the most difficult subjects in the negotiations, because it is not dealt with by logical reasons but by an irrational feeling of ownership. despite the multiple problems the uk has had in selling its catch to the european union, british tories continue to say that at least the fish are happier now. finally, after the ratification of this agreement, which i am sure will happen, the most complicated part of the follow-up will come. in fisheries, it is essential to ensure that the 25% reduction threshold is never exceeded and that reciprocal access is maintained. we ask the commission to be attentive and to inform this parliament. we are concerned not only about the impossibility of adjusting tacs and quotas, but also about the united kingdom's desire to impose unacceptable technical measures and to make illegally restrictive interpretations of the conditions for obtaining fishing licences. in short, i hope that this sad and regrettable divorce from brexit will become a new stage for the united kingdom and the european union that is very positive.
the presidency and the chairman of the council are both committed to the completion of the european union in the future. i believe that the time has come for us to resolve our issues. the act is in the public domain under the béal feirste agreement; it operates in the dlúthchomhar. we must more than ever be on the same side. the breatimeacht is an encouragement to teannais idir pobail i dtuaisceart éireann. chonaiceamar foréigean already started in near laws in the ballet síochána. now we're making it harder for them to vote and react. now, you read an mbreatimeacht, the eire is united and closer than ever. as my colleague clare bailey in the northern ireland assembly says, there was never going to be a good brexit for ireland, north or south. the re-emergence of borders was always going to be a threat to the very fragile peace. boris johnson has not been honest. northern ireland has a political process. it's time all actors commit to the peace process and implement the good friday agreement in all its parts. the breatimeacht is an encouragement to teannais idir pobail i dtuaisceart éireann. chonaiceamar foréigean already started in near laws in the ballet síochána. now we're making it harder for them to vote and react. now, you read an mbreatimeacht, the eire is united and closer than ever. i want to see a united ireland, one that is shared and peaceful, but to achieve this we must include all communities and traditions, nationalist and unionist, to prevent further violence.
mr president, while i like nothing about brexit, i hope that this parliament will ratify the trade and cooperation agreement between the uk and the european union, and i hope that it eventually brings about a new relationship between the european union and the uk. we can’t have continual political discourse that undermines the concept of what an agreement is. i do hope that we dial down the political rhetoric around the northern ireland protocol and that we dial down the political rhetoric in general, particularly coming from the uk government around the fallout from brexit and the negotiations that are finally being concluded here today if we ratify this agreement. the uk government has to accept responsibility for what it signed as well. we now have to ensure that we put mechanisms in place between the european union and the uk at technical level so we don’t always have to have inflamed political debates to address some of the outstanding issues that are causing difficulties, namely the northern ireland protocol and the technical aspects around that. so i would urge caution, reduce the rhetoric and more effort at a technical level to address the outstanding issues. i commend this particular withdrawal agreement to the house.
mr president, the rule of law, european values, a union of citizens united in diversity. these are the hallmarks of the european union, yet today in europe we see these very values under attack across the eu. eu member states are violating our european values and getting away with it. colleagues, we haven’t yet managed to properly sanction member states when they violate the rule of law. but even if we had, it is not sufficient. if we are to promote a union of values, we must invest time, energy and resourcing into that. that’s why i’m delighted today that we are adopting the citizens’ equality, rights and values programme, working with civil society organisations to combat gender-based violence, boosting access to sexual and reproductive health and rights and promoting lgbti+ rights. the strand of the new union values is really important because this is what we need to fight fake news and to build democracy and to prevent interference in our democratic processes. i particularly want to highlight the daphne initiative in this fund because this tackles gender-based violence and we’ve seen a 30% increase during the past year. so it’s about legislative proposals, but it’s also about resources. 800 million for all these goals is not enough proportionate to the amount of time we spent talking about it. so i hope member states will continue to invest because a europe of values is worth the investment.
i will now move to the second voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 19.55 until 21.10. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare the second voting session open, so you have until 21.10 to vote. the result of the second voting session will be announced tomorrow at 9.00. the debate will resume at 20.30 with the council and commission statements on saving the summer tourism season in support of the hospitality sector. (the sitting was suspended at 19.56)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i am very grateful to the european parliament for giving me this opportunity to discuss ways of revitalising the tourism sector and making it more resilient, more prosperous and sustainable, and i would like to thank mep cláudia monteiro de aguiar for her report on establishing a new strategy for sustainable tourism. the debate is very timely as we find ourselves at a critical moment to take decisive action in favour of tourism and the hospitality sector just before the start of the summer season in europe. tourism is a key pillar of the eu economy with great potential for economic growth and for creating employment. it is also essential for forging our common identity and strengthening the mutual knowledge of our rich cultures. the covid-19 crisis has put the sector under heavy economic strain. it has been particularly severe on smes, which in fact constitute the vast majority of the enterprises active in the tourism sector. therefore, we have to act without delay in order to provide the necessary financial support to alleviate the lack of liquidity faced by many tourism businesses, to prevent massive job losses and to help the sector out of recession. we must also take into account that the tourism ecosystem will take longer to recover from the crisis than the other sectors as a large number of enterprises – mostly, as i said, smes – were not prepared and had no cushion allowing them to survive despite the measures taken by the member states. in parallel, we have to make rapid progress in reversing the epidemiological situation and reducing the spread of the coronavirus by accelerating the vaccination process. this means increasing the production capacity for vaccines and ensuring their availability in all member states, leading to an earlier resumption of safe mobility across europe. in addition, we need to have a better coordinated approach to the lifting of restrictive travelling measures within the eu and towards third countries. all these matters were discussed at the informal meeting of ministers of tourism that was held on 1 march. the european parliament also has a major role to play, together with the council, in the approval of the regulation on the digital green certificate to facilitate the free movement of travellers within the eu as soon as possible under safe conditions. the council has agreed on a mandate, and i very much hope that parliament will adopt its position during this plenary session, so that interinstitutional negotiations can start without delay in order to have the framework in place for the summer. i will of course participate in this debate tomorrow. i’m confident that this certificate, if properly equipped with the necessary guarantees of non-discrimination and the protection of personal data, will greatly contribute to this objective. while the eu tourism sector is currently facing serious challenges, it also offers great opportunities for the future. the deep crisis can act as a catalyst to transform the sector, while maintaining europe as a leading destination. the portuguese presidency encouraged all parties involved – member states, the european parliament, the commission, the private sector – to promote and support the transition of european tourism from a model focused on quantitative growth to a quality-based approach, leading to sustainable development and quality jobs. through digitalisation and innovation in tourism, we can achieve a more competitive and sustainable tourism offer in europe, allowing for the emergence of new business models. for that purpose, we will also have to concentrate efforts and deploy the appropriate means for the development of the necessary skills, including digital skills. tourism policy should also contribute to reaching the eu climate goals and the objectives of the paris agreement in accordance with the un sustainable development goals. green investment by public authorities and private actors will be required in the coming years to strengthen competitiveness and support the sustainable growth of the tourism sector in europe. this holistic vision can be set out in a coordinated european agenda for tourism 2030-2050, underpinned by shared priorities and functioning as a roadmap towards a sustainable, innovative and resilient tourism ecosystem. this is a key element of the council conclusions on which we are currently working with member states, to be adopted in may, and i’m glad to see that this common objective has also been reflected in parliament’s report. the presidency is committed to working with the other institutions, international organisations and tourism stakeholders on the development of a shared agenda for the future of the sector. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to invite the representatives of the european parliament responsible for tourism policy to discuss all these issues at the high-level forum for sustainable tourism that the presidency will hold on 14 may in porto, in order to prepare the ground for the launch of the european agenda.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has caused an unprecedented crisis, obviously, for the tourism sector. european union overnight stays fell by 50% in 2020 and cross-border tourism experienced a sharp fall of almost 70%. the crisis has affected millions of jobs, and as many families are affected. all european regions are affected, particularly those that are more dependent on tourism, and i am thinking of course of the coastal areas, the islands and the outermost regions of the union. but there is hope as the summer season approaches. with vaccination efforts intensifying across the eu, europeans are eager to go on holiday again this summer. the needs of citizens are also changing, as we know. new tourists tend to favour short-distance travel, nature and outdoor activities, and last-minute trips. safety and health measures will, as we know, remain the most important criteria. given that the global epidemiological situation remains worrying, of course, our task is clear, but difficult. we must first of all put in place appropriate measures to protect public health and also to ensure safety. at the same time, as member states are gradually reopening, we must also allow for safe travel and tourism. the reopening of businesses in the tourism ecosystem before the summer in a safe and attractive way for tourists will require a high level of coordination, both at national and union level. the commission has put forward a number of measures to create the conditions for a safe reopening and to restore travellers' confidence. firstly, the european union's vaccination strategy and efforts to increase vaccine production capacity - in which, as you know, i am fully involved with the task force i am in charge of - will provide enough doses, i am confident, so that 70% of the adult population in the european union can be vaccinated by mid-july. this will obviously, as we all know, be the number one factor that will give citizens the confidence to travel again. last month, the commission also presented a package of measures to facilitate safe reopening, including, of course, the digital green certificate which will provide a uniform proof that a person has been vaccinated, tested or recovered from covid. it is in fact an important means of facilitating cross-border travel and of adopting a common approach at european union level to avoid divergent national solutions. thanks to the urgent handling of this matter by the co-legislators, the certificate could come into force in june, in time for the summer season, and i will do my utmost to ensure that the technical solution is ready by then. health standards are absolutely essential to reassure travellers, we know that. the commission has therefore asked the european standardisation organisation to work on a voluntary health label for tourism and hospitality establishments in the european union. this one should be ready in time for summer, too. the cultural and creative sector, as we know, is extremely important for tourism and has also been particularly affected by the covid restrictions. to facilitate its recovery, the commission will use existing networks to exchange information on reopening, while preserving the safety of the cultural sector, in order to continue the preparatory work for the development of guidelines, in the light of the evolving epidemiological situation, for the music, audiovisual, arts and entertainment sectors, museums of course, and also for all cultural heritage sites. in the package mentioned above, we will also provide information on testing, such as self-testing and rapid antigen tests, which are increasingly used and useful to facilitate services, but also to travel safely. finally, the commission has been running the re-open eu application platform for over a year now, as you know. this platform centralises up-to-date travel information from member states on an interactive map that is continuously updated. the service is very successful, with more than 10 million visits to the website since last june. some of you may say that despite all these efforts, a member state can still decide to maintain travel restrictions and request, for example, a quarantine, despite the vaccination certificate or other. i would like to stress here that the commission's job is to create the conditions which will facilitate reopening. i think that the efforts i have listed above are obviously a very good basis for all this. in addition, since the beginning of the crisis, the commission has been working with member states to coordinate actions on travel restrictions and security measures within the european union and at our external borders, through recommendations and communications. as regards restrictions on travel outside the union, we are looking at the possibility of proposing amendments to the existing council recommendation to take account of recent developments, including, of course, vaccination. i now come to the question of safeguarding businesses and jobs in tourism and transforming the sector. due to the pandemic, the investment needs of the tourism ecosystem are extremely high - the highest of any industrial ecosystem. since the beginning of the pandemic, the union has provided unprecedented emergency aid to tourism by injecting cash, taking full advantage of the flexibility provided by state aid rules and also launching a temporary unemployment scheme. in order for the travel industry and tourist destinations to build resilience and drive green and digital transformation, more investment is obviously needed, both public of course, but also private, and in this regard, i remind you that the 'next generation eu' and the new multiannual financial framework will play a crucial role. the commission hopes that the member states and the tourism sector will of course seize these unprecedented opportunities. to help tourism sector players access the funding opportunities offered by the new multiannual financial framework and identify the right support tools, we will also launch a new online guide on eu funding for tourism next month. that is what we are doing. the commission, as you can see, is fully committed to helping to revive the tourism ecosystem. protecting businesses and jobs will obviously be at the heart of the union's agenda, as will our commitment to help rebuild a resilient, digital and sustainable tourism sector. in the coming years, in the coming months, we will all join forces to respond urgently to the expectations of europeans, of our fellow citizens, in order, of course, to preserve and save this summer season while guaranteeing the highest standards of public health and safety.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, when we talk about tourism, we are talking about an entire ecosystem, hotel companies, catering companies, cleaning companies, cultural centres, transport companies, small and mediumsized enterprises, but tourism is above all a human process. they are people, they are families that support the entire economic base and that help develop a country. in the worst crises, it was the sector which contributed most to the recovery of countries like my own, portugal. today, the sector needs support from governments and calls for a robust and united european response. businessmen, workers and citizens outside need, more than ever, a genuine recovery programme for tourism, a european master plan that will give hope to almost 3 million tourism businesses in the union and save millions of jobs that depend on it. the european parliament has been asking for it, but we are alone. this lack of political ambition and leadership has led to a continuous lack of coordination of travel that prevents and blocks the free movement of citizens. our call is for the vaccination process to be accelerated, to ensure that the european covid-19 certificate, which is due to come into force in june, ensures effective coordination, prevents restrictions on vaccinated and unvaccinated people and never promotes discrimination. let us do more than create a european instrument. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's tourism industry is not left behind. we expect the european commission, the council, to give a real european response to tourism and travel. my country, portugal, and its outermost regions, madeira and the azores, need this support. we count on your commitment to this solution.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in order for me to come here as vice-chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, to this debate which is very important to us, i had to leave home at 9 a.m. and take a flight from budapest to helsinki to brussels. i traveled from 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. to be here. it is tragic. under these circumstances, we must prepare for the coming summer and the coming years. it's a dramatic situation, restaurants closed, hotels closed, but it's not the hotels and restaurants that really matter to me, it's the people behind them. there are 25 million workers in europe and their fate, their situation, their existence depends on when we get out of this situation. we know very well that the hotel and hospitality industry, before the pandemic, was responsible for 12.5 million jobs in two million businesses. there's been a downturn like we've never seen before. in budapest, our beautiful capital, we lost two and a half million guest nights in the last year alone. hotels, the umbrella organisation for the european hospitality sector, has asked me to ask you some important questions. clear, unambiguous and predictable conditions and rules for reopening are needed. flexible financial instruments, bank loans, affordable financial structures have to be introduced. the sector has an incredible credit rating. this means that we must be able to achieve a reasonable rescheduling of these together, obviously with national parliaments and national governments. but most of all, they are calling for coordinated and coordinated border closures, the application of testing and quarantine rules, and the adoption of a certificate digital, green certificate. but i have something to say to the inspector. now you can see what we were asking for before the pandemic: it no longer works that tourism is explicitly a matter for member states alone. we need to strengthen it at european level. i'm not interested in competence, i'm interested in who's helping these businesses, and who will know at any time, if there's a situation like this, to step in and help the profession immediately. this requires funding and new regulations. that is why i am proposing the creation of a european union for tourism, which is the same political brand as the european union for health, on which we in parliament and the european commission have been able to agree. now let's do the same thing with tourism. we are hopeful because kerstin jorna, valentina superti and marie-hélène pradines are the new players in the commission's area of responsibility. under officer breton, they'd make good partners in this. you should come with us. let's make a european tourism union and new rules for european tourism workers!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we’re in the midst of a huge crisis faced by the tourism and hospitality sectors. the lockdowns over the past year have confined people to their homes, to their towns, cities, regions and countries, apart from a brief respite last summer. even now, most of europe remains in lockdown with the hospitality sector largely shut. this is undoubtedly a really tough period for all involved and i’m very conscious that we want to get the industry up and going again. equally, people want to travel. they want to get back to places that they’ve been to, and to where they want to go. but in the midst of this rush, we need to show that not everything about our pre-pandemic world worked so well. mass tourism had its downsides, from inflated house and rental costs for local people, to plastic pollution on our beaches, and the smog caused by cruise ships in our harbours. so when we try to save the tourism season this summer, for the sake of people and the planet, we cannot rush back to damaging forms of tourism. instead, we need to promote ecotourism, a form of tourism that prioritises the well—being of local populations and the protection of the planet. this morning i was reading about how staycation bookings across europe are soaring for 2021. people are continuing to discover their home countries, their regions, their cities. this type of tourism limits the impact of high carbon costs – think of those eur 15 flights – and it supports local economies. put simply, it’s good for the planet and it’s good for the local economy as well. but for those tourists that do wish to travel abroad this summer, there is another way. we’ve seen a boom in night trains – brussels—vienna, prague—berlin. low carbon travel on modes such as this is part of our future.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than a year since the start of the pandemic and we have seen too many, too many unfulfilled promises in tourism. exactly one year ago, just a few months after the pandemic began, commissioner breton declared in these very halls that the commission was ready to act to provide immediate responses to a sector ravaged by the pandemic. there was talk of the marshall plan, of 25% of the recovery fund devoted to the tourism sector. unfortunately, despite the commissioner's efforts, which i would like to acknowledge publicly, these resources have not been made available and we must now hope that the governments will include in their national plans specific resources which will at best be able to help those who survive into the future but will certainly not be able to compensate those who have lost a large part of their turnover in recent months. air travel on its knees, cruise lines on their knees, the tour operator, travel agencies, desperate tour guides, hotels, restaurants and bars in the cities of art and beyond are closing in their thousands. the mice sector is on its knees, ski resorts have lost the season, the seaside enterprises are at least hoping to save the summer, while in many countries, such as italy, they are still struggling with a crazy application of the bolkestein directive that puts them at risk. after the poor management of the vaccination campaign, the covid-19 certificate is now an opportunity to show that the union really does serve to improve the lives of european citizens and to give breathing space to a sector that has paid a very high price and also serves to avoid bilateral corridors and discrimination between european states. we have to get back together safely. to achieve this, citizens must first be given confidence and the right communication: there will be no vaccination requirement, but only a certificate recognised by all that allows travel even with a simple negative stamp. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. only then can we extend this tool to tourists from non-european markets. sensitive data will have to be handled with care by national authorities. but above all we must act quickly, because tourism is planning and if we miss this summer season, we risk leaving hundreds of thousands of small and mediumsized businesses on the street.
madam president, madam zacarias, mr breton, freedom of movement is a hallmark of our union, a key to its economy and a basic condition for the development of a european citizenship based on our diversity. the vaccination campaign and the pcr tests, which are affordable, quick to diagnose and available wherever they are carried out, are essential tools for the european green certificate to do more than just return to the past. we are therefore going to dismantle restrictions in a coordinated and safe manner, restore trade, reopen business and alleviate the very difficult situation of the european regions most dependent on tourism, especially the island and outermost regions. the commitment to a more sustainable experience tourism is good for the sector, for users and for the planet. the sector needs and deserves a european plan that supports digitisation, recycling, involving new actors in the creation of new offers; that promotes accessibility, energy efficiency of buildings, sustainable mobility on the journey and at the destination or the use of artificial intelligence to improve management, information to users ... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker).
madam president, there is no doubt that tourism is one of the sectors that has been the hardest hit by the pandemic. the upcoming summer season will be decisive, especially for those countries that are highly dependent on tourism. therefore, it is important that the eu give support to the sector. travelling in europe also contributes to european identity. one year after the pandemic, people need new positive experiences, and they are longing to travel again in a safe way. travelling should not be reserved for the wealthy, so we need to ensure that travel and tourism become more affordable and more accessible. at the same time, people – and especially young people – want to see change. we have seen them on our streets every friday. they want to achieve our climate goals and they want to save biodiversity. they don’t want to go on like this; instead, we must live and travel more consciously. that is why the eu should focus its efforts on supporting sustainable tourism. first, we also need to foster the greenest travel modes to each destination, particularly rail, which can be combined with cycling tourism. night trains can be a perfect solution, creating unique experiences in a comfortable setting. sustainability is also necessary at destination, ensuring a circular economy model in the accommodation and hospitality sectors. this will then be a win-win-win situation for the environment, the people and the different sectors, especially nature—based tourism, such as agro— and ecotourism.
madam president! any idea that will help to safely unfreeze tourism and gastronomy before a holiday is worth considering, which is why it is so important to introduce quickly and effectively digital green certificates that will make it easier for all healthy and vaccinated people to travel in europe. the commission should also recommend to member states which are popular tourist destinations with a slow vaccination rate to include tourism and food service workers in the vaccination programme. we should also consider allowing tourists from outside the european union to travel if they meet european health conditions and standards. in all decisions affecting the working conditions of tourism and catering in the coming holiday season, it is important to bear in mind that the opening up of these sectors is very important for the economies of many member states, but it is the safety of tourists and residents of tourist resorts that should be our priority. let us make sure that the coming holidays, through wise and thoughtful decisions, bring about the final victory in the long and difficult fight against the pandemic.
the commission has already done so. yes, tourism has also been hit extremely hard by the pandemic. in my home country, germany, hotels have only been open in the summer until november last year. short-time working, wage failures, insolvencies - these are the issues we have to deal with in this area. lockdowns without a concept and perspective simply cannot be a lasting solution; they damage the economy, and they damage people, too. true: the european union has already created opportunities to help tourism and also the hospitality industry financial support for businesses, but also increased aid in training and further training for example; we are discussing the youth guarantee here in the european parliament. money is important, but so are concepts that can help tourism. an example from my hometown in the harz region in the middle of germany: a hotel that reopened there, as a model project, bought air filters for every large room, regular ventilation, contact tracing, half occupancy of the hotel, all guests had to show pcr tests when checking in, and all guests had to be tested again regularly. the same for the staff. what i want to say - and i also ask the european commission - is: give us, give us, uniform concepts throughout europe! it is useless if different concepts apply in each country and in each region. we need common concepts here in the european union. we started this last may with a general communication, and we need it again. that is my request to the european level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have done a tremendous job with our colleagues in the tourism task force this year. we believe that tourism should be a subject of european interest, both in the definition of the regulatory aspects and in the allocation of resources. we've understood this even more strongly during this pandemic: 27 states with 27 different systems and 27 pandemic response regimes represent the furthest thing from the federalist project envisioned by our founding fathers. i appreciate your optimism, commissioner, but at the moment i do not think that europe's response has been effective. we have unsuccessfully asked the commission to allocate a budgetary chapter to tourism, which before covid-19 accounted for 10% of european gdp, employed over 23 million citizens and was the core business of 3 million businesses. today we have only rubble: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. this is the current scenario: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of air transport in the community. the resolution adopted by parliament last june on support for small and mediumsized enterprises remains a dead letter, commissioner. we must start to speed up its implementation if we are really going to help the sector.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, only freedom of movement can guarantee the recovery of a sector, the tourist sector, which has been so badly hit by the pandemic. that is why it is vital that a common european vaccine certificate be adopted, which, together with the administration of vaccines, is the real solution to the restrictions imposed by the virus. of course, we know that this too will be a season of transition and that it will still take time before we can repopulate our deserted art cities, repopulate our empty museums and restaurants, and put tour guides and all those working in the industry back to work. we cannot allow this grave crisis to pass in vain. we need to imagine a new way of doing tourism and the national recovery and resilience plans will have to be the instrument to launch a series of strategic investments to modernise the sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the european commission's communication on the environment and the sustainable use of natural resources (com (2016) 0173).
madam president, i have to say that i agree with commissioner breton’s opening statement that tourism in coastal communities and islands has probably been most impacted by covid. tourism and hospitality play a huge part in the economy of my own country of ireland, where over 200 000 people are generally employed in the sector. those 200 000 people account for some 11% of the working population, a figure that represents individual families, business, all who are anxiously waiting for the sector to reopen. in 2019, after a steady rise in earnings over the previous number of years, tourism contributed eur 9 billion in revenue to the irish economy. it’s vital that this struggling sector is given the support it needs to reopen safely. we must face further travel restrictions but, with talk of staycations being a big feature of this summer, there’s hope that we can get back on track but in a low impact, green and sustainably responsible way. innovative and proactive approaches could help, such as an initiative by my own government under the guidance of green party minister for tourism, catherine martin, to encourage people to stay at home on our beautiful island and to enjoy a staycation. most businesses in the tourism and hospitality sector are smes, which have been seeing their debts piling up over the past year and a half. so, with the support of the eu and member states, i hope we can all get this sector back up running and we can have a taste of summer.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, this programme is obviously not star trek, it’s clearly incredibly technical, but the bit that concerns me are programmes like govsatcom that will be funded from this programme but with the glaring absence of focus on the risks of the militarisation of space that comes with it. it’s very clear that the eu is getting in on the game started by the us of seeing space as the new frontier of war. talk about without space it’s not possible for the eu to become a geopolitical player is dangerous and depressing because to be honest, space has always been a cooperative area and this turned to aggressive competition started by the us is a departure. only last week the combination of us sanctions and eu russiaphobia pushed russia to withdraw from the international space station, one of the major cooperative achievements of the cold war era. this should give us pause for thought. we can pursue an intensive programme of space militarisation, ultimately competition and so on, or we can pull back and develop a more diplomatic and global approach based on peace and cooperation. i know... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, yes i broadly welcome the report into digital taxation. the current system globally is not fit for purpose in the modern world. it threatens traditional models and it threatens the small and medium—sized sector. the report in itself, in terms of digital taxation, is welcome. i also support the concept of international cooperation, discussion and engagement of the commission, member states and others with the oecd to try and find workable solutions that will address the new challenges facing governments across the globe in terms of funding public health services. but i have to say that i am very disappointed again that the scope of the report goes well beyond what it should be about, which is digital taxation. it veers into the areas of treaty change, undermining the sovereignty of member states in terms of their competence around taxation, and the commission as well, commissioner. it has to be addressed. your obligation is to uphold the principles of the treaties, and very often i see this drift by the commission to undermining member states’ tax sovereignty and going from unanimity to qualified majority. that is an area of genuine concern to me. so, while welcoming the report, we also have to accept that there’s an awful lot of work to be done in this parliament and by the commission to ensure that we have an understanding of member states’ concerns when it comes to changes in taxation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the unity reached by us yesterday in negotiating the resolution is a proper parliamentary response to russia’s aggressive posture and the country’s contempt for international order, for sovereignty, for the security and territorial integrity of neighbours, for the freedom of a country’s own citizens and neighbouring nations. we stand by ukraine. the best way to show it is by immediately stopping projects like nord stream 2 and, in nato’s remit, the granting of maps to ukraine and georgia. we stand in solidarity, as before, with the leaders of czechia and admire the country’s response to the act of state terrorism perpetrated by russian active servicemen on its territory. we stand by the russian opposition, in particular alexei navalny. we also support the belarusian opposition in every way in their condemning the rule of lukashenko. on nord stream 2, regardless of difficulty, i’m absolutely sure that stopping this project is to give enormous momentum to the pace of integration of the real community.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, so we have another resolution attacking russia. we’re supposed to give out about military build-up on the russian-ukrainian border. how come we never give out about the fact that western interference in ukraine destabilised the region in the first place? the americans admit to spending usd 5 billion on regime change, leading to the 2014 coup. ukraine has been a basket case ever since. we’re supposed to give out about russia carrying out an act of terrorism in czechia in 2014. seven years ago? why didn’t we hear about it before now? might it have more to do with the czech elections this year? even the czech president, zeman, has said there’s no proof. navalny. now he’s on instagram saying he’s fine, he’s eating and has the medical attention he needs. i don’t think navalny should be in prison. i don’t agree with prison. but i find it interesting that we never talk about the fact that one in four of the world’s prisoners are in prison in america. human rights. anyone interested? we are calling on russia to investigate the navalny case, but the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons (opcw) in germany has refused to supply the russian authorities with navalny’s biomedical samples so that they can initiate the investigation. why? whose interests does our anti-russian reverie serve now? the people of russia? no. the people of europe? no. more like the interests of nato, the arms industry and us imperialism. eu countries are spending three times more on defence than russia, and americans are spending 10 times more on defence than russia. these are dark times for those interested in peace and the truth. cop on to yourselves!
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, i too favour a strong relationship between the eu and india, but not as a geopolitical tool to challenge the rise of china in the region and the world. that’s exactly what the americans want to do when it comes to india. i would like to see the eu play a different role, to play an independent role and have a healthy relationship with india. we shouldn’t pretend that we’re going there and engaging with them because of shared values. the truth is that modi is a far—right—wing racist. he’s a nasty piece of work, but that doesn’t stop us from actually engaging with india. hopefully he won’t be there forever. but the idea that we can use india as a vehicle to stop china, as if china was the baddy and india was the goody, is absolute nonsense. the human rights record in india is much worse than it is in china. there is no comparison. the chinese have performed miracles with challenging poverty unheard of in humankind. they have so much to offer and we have so much to learn from them. if you want to compare the two, look at how both of them have dealt with covid. let’s be realistic in our relationship and stop pretending.
the fight against terrorism is not just offline, but we need to do it online more and more. these regulations arm us in this fight. online platforms such as google, facebook and twitter are required to remove reported terrorist propaganda from their channels within one hour. it is also very positive that the rules apply to all internet companies offering services in the eu, regardless of where the platform is located. i am also satisfied that we have come to a clear definition of what constitutes terrorist content and that there are sufficient safeguards to prevent abuse. yet this is only a first step. with the digital services act, we will tackle in a structured and organised way not only terrorist propaganda but also illegal or harmful content. what is illegal offline should also be illegal online, provided that adequate safeguards are in place to protect free speech. this will bring us closer to a secure and transparent internet environment for every european citizen.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we are debating and adopting regulations that have a very broad social impact, because rail passengers are the many billions of people who board and disembark in stations every year, travel by train. they're very diverse people. our concern and the focus of the debate was primarily on the rights of passengers and the responsibilities of carriers and other service providers. the main objective is to increase passenger transport by rail in europe. we want to increase the share of rail transport in the european passenger transport market. the way to achieve this is first and foremost to increase the accessibility of rail transport for passengers. increasing physical accessibility, i.e. people should be able to use rail services regardless of their level of mobility disability, and economic accessibility. it's not a luxury to ride a train, but it should be a pleasure to ride a train, and that's where we want to go. we want to make railways attractive to passengers and at the same time to make passengers who use them more and more satisfied. the key issues we are discussing here are: compensation for train delays, the so-called group ticket, compensation for missed connections, all facilities for disabled people, bicycle compartments, a unified complaint form, on the basis of which the carrier must return the appropriate compensation within 30 days, and finally the often discussed force majeure clause, which we want to introduce in rail transport on the model of aviation. and i want to emphasize very strongly that there is no choice here. it's not the railroad's job to decide when there's force majeure. there are definite criteria, definite moments, definite governmental or state bodies that will decide what is a higher power. there are deadlines for implementation and we say, starting today, within four or five years, our individual decisions will be implemented. why are the deadlines graduated? well, railways are very diverse in the european union. they vary greatly in terms of standard, technical equipment, traffic, certain traditions. we want the 2019-2027 financial perspective to be over so that we can say at that point that we are implementing the legislation. what's important to us? i wanted to emphasize that in a very strong way. this document is ambitious, but it is feasible. our expectations as a parliament were a little bit higher at the beginning than we achieved here, but we achieved this after more than three years of debate in parliament, looking at about a thousand amendments, turning them into a whole series of compromises, and finally debating with two presidencies. we didn't get that with the croatian presidency. we're done with the german presidency. we are therefore convinced that this act can contribute as an important step towards the implementation of the green deal in europe. it is rail transport that is the most environmentally friendly form of transport. i think we should have a kind of good moment to highlight that we have the european year of railways and it is good that in this european year of railways we are talking about this. what's new? first of all, the unification of standards. standards that are minimal. carriers may set higher standards on an individual basis. we have a new idea which could create a single european railway area modelled on the european airspace. the new provision emphasises the responsibility of the carrier and all service providers. novum is a great concern for the convenience of passengers, responsibility for the fate of the passenger in transport. finally, may i thank my closest collaborators and counter-rapporteurs. we spent many, many hours deliberating on amendments, compromising. we have had very long debates with the croatian presidency and the german presidency. that's when we compromised, that's when we agreed on our common position. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the croatian and german presidencies. i would like to thank the commissioner personally for the european commission. the cooperation with the european commission was good. finally, i would like to thank the social partners, the organisations and associations. there were so many. i didn't even know - i just found out here - that there was a european cycling federation. thank you to the disabled persons association. thank you to our railway partners, our unions. i move, your honor, for your assent. thank you for your attention. oh, there's five seconds left, so i'm being sparing. thank you, madam chairman.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, i am pleased to participate in this exchange with you on behalf of my colleague commissioner adina vălean. the commission very much welcomes the agreement reached between the co—legislators on this important and long—awaited proposal on the reform of rail passengers’ rights and obligations. we welcome the ambitious approach taken by parliament on this file. i would particularly like to express our gratitude for the work done by the rapporteur mr liberadzki, the shadow rapporteurs, and also the committee on transport and tourism. while negotiations were intense, it is clear that the agreement reached is a win—win situation for all. the new roles will significantly improve rail passenger protection, while also taking into account the need to keep the rail sector competitive. this balance is essential to improving the sector’s image and attracting more people to rail, which is central to achieving the european green deal goals. the new regulation offers better protection for rail passengers in cases of delay, cancellations, missed connections and discrimination. it also makes significant progress in responding to the needs of people with disabilities or reduced mobility. among the new features of this strengthened legal framework i would like to highlight, in particular: the obligation for the successive connection performed by the same company to offer through tickets, which will ensure better protection in cases of delays; the obligation to provide real—time traffic and travel information to passengers; the obligation to ensure dedicated spaces for bicycles on board new and major—refurbished trains; a pre—notification time of only 24 hours for assistance to passengers with disabilities and passengers with reduced mobility, which is the shortest pre—notification period compared to all other transport modes; a new right to self—rerouting; an improved enforcement framework linked to the amended complaint handling mechanism; a reinforced obligation for cooperation between the national enforcement bodies; and the future eu—wide standards that standardise compensation and reimbursement forms. as regards the force majeure clause, the commission’s position is clear that this can be used only in limited circumstances. i would like to underline here that this provision only concerns the payment of compensation, not the reimbursement of tickets. finally, the commission fully understands the european parliament and the council stance that we have reached the limit of the system of exemptions that may be granted by member states. i therefore support the approach taken, namely to increase the number of provisions that will remain mandatory even for services that are exempted.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. after four years of negotiations and seven council presidencies, the german presidency has finally managed to find the breakthrough for what i believe is a balanced compromise on rail passenger rights. that is why today is a good day for european train travellers, should this compromise finally be adopted here in the european parliament. i am particularly pleased that railway companies will in future have to make all relevant travel data and prices available on web portals. this will create innovative business models that create price transparency, as consumers will now be able to choose the fastest and cheapest train travel for the whole of europe. we will finally be making private railway companies visible to every customer, and there will be real competition on the railways throughout europe. we've seen this before in air traffic. it is important for me that we also keep in mind the economic situation of railway companies in europe, because they are also having a very hard time and are struggling extremely hard due to the pandemic that is currently prevailing. i therefore think it is a good thing that we are not overdoing things, for example, with regard to the arrangements for reimbursement of delays, and that we are essentially maintaining and confirming the current arrangements. in order to achieve the eu's climate goals, our railway companies will also have to make many investments in the future, and so it is right that we have not overburdened them, but at the same time we have also strengthened the rights of rail passengers. i can only recommend to everyone, therefore, to accept the compromise that has been reached. this strengthens consumer rights and maintains economic equilibrium.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we voted to make the year 2021 the european year of rail. we voted to boost rail because it’s a more sustainable and a more convenient way to travel, and because citizens demanded it. yet when it comes to passenger rights, the parliament bowed to the pressure of the council and did a deal that rolls back on eu citizens’ rail passenger rights. it abandoned a strong position and decided the way forward was in fact backwards. the force majeure clause provides too many exemptions for railway companies on compensation rights. this weakens passenger rights. there’s no improvement for passengers if a train is delayed. a two—hour delay and only 50% of the ticket price as compensation? come on! on disability rights, we also abandoned the parliament’s position. we should be making it easier for those with reduced mobility to get around. an agreement that sets 24 hours’ notice for requesting assistance doesn’t change things enough for those who depend on it. surely we can reduce this, at least at large stations. not good enough. that’s why i’m urging you to vote in favour of the amendments that improve the deal for eu citizens. let’s send a message to citizens and to the council that the parliament will uphold strong passenger and consumer rights, just like it did with roaming charges. so let’s vote for the amendments, vote for stronger passenger rights and get rail back on track. (applause)
mr president, today we sign the european defence fund (edf). it’s of historic importance, not just because it’s the first time that we will actually pull this off politically, but for the first time since the end of the cold war, we are facing two near—peer military adversaries: russia and china. their self-confidence on the world stage is directly derived and based on their military capabilities and apparatus. they did their homework quite well: they introduced hypersonic missiles, space weapons, laser weapons, hypersonic glide vehicles and the lot, and we need a european answer from that, also from the european defence fund. but that is an answer to today’s threats. the future threats i expect the edf to also address come more from self-driving tanks, autonomous fighter jets, unmanned submarines, and i expect the edf also to go that way. otherwise it will not be the historic moment that we want it to be, because this has to be for a future position as well.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for all of us who work for peace and disarmament, the establishment of the european defence fund is a sad day, of course. when we, sweden, joined the eu, it was a sacred promise that the eu would never, ever develop into any military cooperation. and here we are today. what flatness! what a flat-out s and mp in our house to just agree to this. we want european cooperation that is not based on military priorities and armaments. this is a gift to the war industry. it's a betrayal of peace and disarmament. it's a betrayal of all of us who know that we need investment in climate change and sustainability, not in warheads and tanks. to jeopardise the european cause in this way is a betrayal of all the young people who are demonstrating today for the planet and for the future. do you think anyone wants more tanks and warheads with the eu flag on them? no, they expect something else from us.
ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we had a long debate yesterday in this very chamber on european foreign and security policy. we talked about russia's increasingly aggressive behavior and its covert war on the territory of the european union's member states. we also talked about how china's rhetoric has become increasingly forceful and how china is becoming increasingly aware of its growing power - both economically and militarily. today we are debating and later voting on the report setting out the use of the european defence fund in the current budgetary framework for the years 2021-2027. i am clearly of the opinion that the european union must take defence and security more seriously than ever before, as the world situation simply demands. raising defence issues, seriously discussing them in a european context, must not be a talk-room perspective on european army issues, but a serious and substantive discussion on how to invest more in defence and how to coordinate it better between member states. i call on all colleagues who care about european security to vote in favour of the report in today's vote. i would also like to express my dismay that the european defence fund was reduced by more than 40% in the tripartite budget negotiations. i am convinced that, in order to be credible, the european union must invest more and more in defence and foster cooperation between member states and friendly third countries, because only in this way can we avoid technological backwardness and remain competitive in the world. thank you!
mr president, we often talk in here about how far we’ve come, but you know what? this fund for me is an indication of how low we’ve sunk. a union that was supposed to be to sign for peace, signing off for the first time on a slush fund of eur 8 billion for weapons of slaughter, directly from an eu budget. a fund designed by the arms industry, for the arms industry. for god’s sake, we even have a peace facility where african countries can buy back some of those weapons and then when they use them and refugees comes to our shores, the same companies benefit from the contracts to keep them out. you couldn’t make it up. isn’t it time we change tack? the citizens and communities devastated by covid have a hell of a lot better things to be doing with spending eur 8 billion on. the irish playwright george bernard shaw made the point that wars don’t decide who was right, but who is left. western interventionism has left millions widowed, orphaned, stateless, homeless. it’s time to call a halt. support the left’s resolution to reject this madness.
president, commissioner, the right to work in another eu member state is a worker's right. however, we must ensure that labour migration by workers from third countries to the eu is not allowed on the basis of skills rather than qualifications. the logistics sector, agriculture, the meat industry and the temporary employment sector are all currently exploiting european migrant workers. often the pay of these workers is not in order, let alone their housing. so if it becomes easier to fly in people from kazakhstan, moldova, nepal or even the philippines, we are sure that working conditions will not improve. we don't want a race to the bottom. we must guarantee good working conditions for everyone who works in europe.
madam president, first of all we are concerned about the technical and legislative deficiencies in this text. the free movement of workers and services is clearly an advantage we enjoy in the union, but the challenge is to promote mobility while respecting the rules and laws specific to each member state. the ambiguity of this social model means that the already complicated situation of mobile workers can be confused with that of illegal immigrants. this leads to the violation of workers' rights, and the absence of a regulatory framework to ensure adequate conditions. we also oppose the approach of gender ideology, which itself distorts labour relations. we note the interference of the european institutions, since this is a matter for the member states. we are advocating less intrusive regulation and one which is more responsive to the needs of europeans.
madam president, please. for a long time, we have taken for granted one of the eu's most important principles, the free movement of workers to work where they want. but in the aftermath of brexit and the covid-19 pandemic, many people have found themselves in a difficult situation and many have lost their jobs. but the difficulty has helped us to find new solutions. digitalisation offers an unprecedented opportunity to facilitate mobility. hungary has managed to not only maintain but also expand the number of jobs, despite the epidemic. in my country, 4.6 million people are now employed, 41,000 more than at the same time last year. the employment rate in hungary in the first quarter of 2021 is almost seventy-two percent, almost reaching the 78 percent targeted at the porto summit. when you have a job, you have everything.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of workers is a cornerstone of the european project. this mobility represents employment opportunities which we must encourage, because in some parts of europe there is a lot of labour but few jobs, so we have to match labour with employment. today, only 4% of workers use this freedom by working in a member state other than the one of which they are a national. the single market must be an opportunity for all. in border regions, which account for 40% of the regions in europe, this mobility makes even more sense. as an alsatian, i have seen firsthand the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic and the difficulties it has caused for thousands of border workers crossing the border every morning. the challenge for us today is to find the right balance to facilitate travel without adding administrative burdens, especially in border regions. a balance must also be struck to ensure that all workers are treated equally. finally, we must ensure fair conditions of competition for our companies. in any case, the crisis we are going through puts free movement at the heart of the issues.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would first say that this report is really timely. it comes at a moment when, due to the pandemic, we have seen limitations to mobility. we have seen also a lot of abuses linked to mobility and so i’m very grateful for this report, for the proposals, and we still have to work on these issues of mobility, which is, as we have already said, a fundamental right of the european union. but i would not say that europe is connected or responsible for social dumping. it’s the absence of europe that leads to social dumping. it’s the absence of good regulations and rules, and especially the absence of sufficient national controls where we have european rules, so that’s why we have these situations which some of you have described. we are all responsible for the same rights for everybody – for local workers, for migrant workers, for seasonal workers – they all have the same rights and they all have to be treated in exactly the same way, be it safety and health, be it wages, be it their freedoms to organise. so this is what we have to fight for. and this comes after the porto summit and i think we have a new mandate for building a stronger social europe. there will not be an integrated european economy, an internal market, built on unfairness, built on a mobility which treats seasonal workers as they have been treated in some cases, but we have also to acknowledge that mobility offers a lot of good opportunities. a lot of people have found good jobs for themselves, for their families, and believe me, i’m coming from a country which is very much depending on mobility, and there are a lot of people living there who have benefited from this european mobility, but certainly we have now to work on the porto mandate to make mobility fair and to give all european workers – local, seasonal, mobile – the same rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 may 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. today we are discussing the impact of the coronavirus crisis on the free movement of workers and services. the european parliament has expressed concern that the epidemic should restrict this freedom. that's not acceptable. let us not forget that non-discrimination is a fundamental principle enshrined in the treaties. the covid-19 crisis is a temporary rather than a permanent phenomenon and therefore the pandemic cannot be used to restrict the free movement of people, workers and services within the union, which is of particular importance for new member states such as lithuania. these principles and freedoms are the pillars of the european union, they are enshrined in the treaties, and the rights of citizens cannot be taken away by subordinate laws. the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental principles of the union, and the principle of equal treatment requires that there should be no discrimination on grounds of nationality, employment or remuneration in the field of free movement of workers. cooperation between states will only make sense if the union promotes social justice and social protection for all citizens without exception. so let us, by adopting new regulations, maintain a high level of employment, ensure adequate social protection and combat social exclusion. we should also always remember the most important principle of the services directive, which is the principle of the country of destination, and these provisions should not be changed. the free movement of services should be carried out with respect for labour and social rights and the principle of equal treatment and free movement should always be respected.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by younous omarjee on the review of the european union solidarity fund (2020/2087(ini)) (a9 0052/2021).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, with this report our committee on regional development reaffirms its attachment to the european union solidarity fund, which, as you know, was set up in 2002 following the severe floods that affected central europe. this fund has a special value: it expresses european solidarity by providing financial aid to states and regions affected by natural disasters. since its creation, it has been mobilised in 24 european countries for some 100 major natural disasters and has a total budget of €6 billion. more than ever, the solidarity fund must take a central place in cohesion policy, because we are facing a new reality today, that of the almost permanent nature of natural disasters in europe. every year, continental, island and outermost regions are hit by major natural disasters, such as floods, storms, fires, hurricanes, tropical cyclones and earthquakes. and for good reason, because climate change is happening and it is now irrefutable that these extreme climatic events will increase in frequency and intensity. these risks have now become systemic worldwide. in europe, these disasters have cost €500 billion in economic losses and 90,000 lives since 1980. i believe that this is still very much underestimated in all our policies. it is clear that disasters are now a major factor in destabilising all policies, and in particular regional policy, because of the damage caused to all the infrastructure that we finance through the erdf and that we also repair through the erdf. this is why we call on the regions in our cohesion regulations to take climate change adaptation into account in their development strategies and investments. our report also highlights the successive reforms which have enabled the fund to adapt more and more to the realities on the ground and to become less and less complex. it takes account of the recognition of regional disasters, the necessary administrative simplification and the reduction of the time taken to pay aid. we also welcome the fact that the european union has, with resceu, established response forces to help member states cope with disasters when their national capacities are exceeded, including pipelines and water pumping equipment. but now, commissioner, is the time to go further and also to start thinking about covering health disasters in the future, without having to legislate in an emergency to deal with an emergency, as we did during the covid-19 crisis. we must constantly rethink our instruments and adapt our budgetary choices to these new realities. this is the meaning of all the proposals contained in this report by the committee on regional development, which i hope will be adopted tomorrow by a very large majority.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i want to congratulate parliament on this very comprehensive and thorough report, which contains a useful analysis and a lot of very important suggestions. i thank particularly the rapporteur and also his comments. solidarity is a core value upon which the union is built. the european union solidarity fund was created, as already mentioned, in 2002 to provide eu solidarity by contributing to post-disaster relief in member states and accession countries confronted with devastating natural disasters and major public health emergencies. between 2002 and 2020, the fund mobilised a total of over 6.5 billion for interventions in 96 disasters in 23 member states and one accession country. italy is by far the biggest beneficiary of the fund, with more than 3 billion received so far. the second biggest beneficiary is germany, followed by croatia, due to the devastating earthquake in zagreb in march 2020. the eu solidarity fund evaluation completed in 2019 confirmed the effectiveness of the fund and the synergies between the eu solidarity fund and other eu policy instruments for disaster risk management. it also concluded that eusf brings clear eu added value and demonstrates eu solidarity in action. as noted by the report, member states and regions are increasingly confronted with natural disasters, which appear to be linked to climate change, as already mentioned by the rapporteur. in 2020 the eu solidarity fund continued to offer vital support, providing financial relief but, at the same time, a clear and tangible sign of european solidarity to the populations affected. the solidarity principle is embedded in the nature of the instrument and its activation. the fund should intervene only when the exceptional nature of a disaster puts a particularly heavy burden on the country or region affected. furthermore, support from the eu fund helps to increase the member states’ and regions’ resilience and preparedness to address the consequences of these natural disasters. in 2020, more than 969 million of assistance was awarded to six member states in order to help them finance emergency and recovery operations after the natural disasters which affected those countries and the regions. in addition, in 2020 the commission received nine new natural disaster applications. at the same time, as part of the coronavirus response investment initiative, the fund regulation was amended last year in order to extend its scope to major public health emergencies, and i take the proposal perhaps to deepen this aspect in case of sanitary or pandemic, like the one we are just in. as a result, the commission has proposed an overall package of almost 530 million of the fund assistance to the efforts deployed by 17 member states and three accession countries to fight the covid-19 health emergency. i would like to give a pertinent and recent example for eusf assistance in the context of natural disasters. 2020 was extremely challenging for croatia. the country went through two terrible earthquakes – one in march 2020, and later between december and january this year there was a series of earthquakes. the eu has shown genuine and quick solidarity with the people of croatia from day one to provide emergency help in kind and in funds. the eu solidarity fund provided the total amount of 683.7 million assistance already in 2020 to croatia after the first earthquake. this is the second highest absolute amount ever paid by the fund for emergency and recovery operations after a natural disaster. it is clear, though, that a sustainable recovery in croatia from such devastating earthquakes will take many years and considerable financial resources. therefore, the commission is advising to use the eusf funding in complementarity with other available funding resources, for example the cohesion policy funding and the recovery and resilience facility. in recent years the commission has put an increasing focus on prevention, climate adaption and risk management policies, and through its research programme horizon 2020 and incoming horizon europe, new technologies are being developed to tackle these challenges. for cohesion policy, disaster risk management is vital, because local and regional authorities are the first to face the impact of disasters, because it is a cost-effective investment in preventing future losses and because it contributes to sustainable development. in 2014-2020, cohesion policy invested almost 8 billion across the eu in climate change adaption and risk prevention in the eu. this includes a broad array of support. the commission’s proposals for cohesion policy after 2020 include precisely disaster risk management and climate adaption as specific objectives.
that concludes the item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 18 may 2021.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by angel dzhambazki on challenges of sports events organisers in the digital environment (2020/2073(inl)) (a9 0139/2021).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, perhaps we will not be fighting for a change tonight, which is news in itself and perhaps the subject of the report is important. sport plays an important role in society for the social, cultural and economic prosperity of the member states of the union. it is no coincidence that the wise bulgarian people said: "a healthy spirit lives in a healthy body". everybody knows that sports is a place for competition, for character building. a developed sport means a strong and healthy nation. in addition, sport promotes and consolidates values such as mutual respect and understanding, fairness, cooperation, civic engagement and at the same time contributes substantially to the educational and cultural needs of the nations of the member states. the sports-related sectors represent 2,12% of the union's gross domestic product and 2,82% of employment within the union, and sporting events have a significant territorial impact in terms of participation as well as economically. it is important to note that the culture of the sports fan is an integral part of the sports experience, not just a backdrop for the presentation of a simple market product. today, the most important part of the revenues of rights holders - about 80 percent - comes from broadcasting events, which suffer from the illegal broadcasting of events that are broadcast online. online piracy of sporting events is a real problem, which according to a recent 2019 europol study puts users at real risk of becoming victims of malware through free apps, credit card data theft, etc. the problem of digital piracy of sports broadcasting is constantly evolving in terms of the scale of the technology used, the means of transmission of information and the signal. online piracy of live sporting events is carried out irrespective of whether the sporting event is available on a free-to-air television channel via subscription services. there are different sources and forms of piracy, which leads to different possible solutions. the development of the digital environment facilitates access to all fans of sporting events, on all types of devices, and encourages the development of new online business models, while facilitating the illegal broadcasting of sporting events within and outside the union. unlike other sectors, the majority of the value of broadcasting a live sporting event is that it is live, and when it's over, the event loses its value. a swift response is therefore needed to put an end to the illegal broadcasting of sporting events. that's the focus of the report. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues who are shadow speakers for their creative work and the result achieved. i would like to emphasise that the measures should focus on the root causes of illegal content, namely those who facilitate the activities of illegal websites that commit violations on a large scale. it is not about people who unwittingly or unknowingly participate in illegal broadcasting. the commission should also be able to assess whether the content of the broadcasts is relevant to the public interest, in particular in the context of the audiovisual media services directive. this is why the report focuses on the core problem that arises from dedicated professional websites with business models funded by cheap advertising, giving access to illegal sports content an activity that is mainly carried out by criminal organisations and should be distinguished from fans who simply share photos. union legislation provides for a general framework which provides for the possibility of using enforcement measures by rightholders, including out-of-court mechanisms. despite the existence of that regime, the mechanisms for notifying and removing the mechanisms for tracing breaches have limitations, especially when it comes to live events. the main problem for the organisers of sporting events is the piracy of those sporting events which are broadcast live and whose economic value lies precisely in the live broadcast. the problem with current enforcement measures is usually that they come too late. civil law enforcement measures, such as notification mechanisms and removal provisions to stop infringements, take a relatively long time and the actual removal or blocking of access to content is too late. however, the solution is not to create new rights for organisers of sporting events but to improve the guarantee of the exercise of existing rights in order to achieve an effective and full guarantee of those rights. i have more to read, madam chairman, but there's no time for that. i'd like to hear the committee and the shadow rapporteurs.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank first the rapporteur, mr dzhambazki, and the members of the juri and cult committees for their work on this important report. indeed, piracy remains a serious challenge, both for sport event organisers and for broadcasters, in particular because of the value and the specificity of live sport content. let me recall at the outset that the commission issued a declaration on the challenges of sport organisers in the digital environment in 2019 in the context of the adoption of the copyright directive and committed to assess these challenges. such assessment has been already launched, and a mapping study tasked to the european audiovisual observatory should be completed within a few months. moreover, the commission also highlighted the need to better address online piracy in the recent media and audiovisual action plan and the action plan on intellectual property. in particular, the commission indicated that it will work to see how existing remedies to fight against piracy can be made more efficient and easier to obtain – an important point made also in your report. in this context, the commission will look at how to foster the cooperation among national enforcement authorities and among stakeholders. the commission will also assess how to improve legal offers of sport content online. the report also covers other issues related to sport events, which are addressed in a horizontal way in the proposal for the digital services act. this proposal is currently being analysed by the european parliament and the council. in particular, the digital services act contains several general provisions on tackling all types of illegal content online, such as rules on notice and action procedures and on trusted flaggers. while the digital services act as a horizontal instrument is not the appropriate tool to address sector-specific proposals, once adopted, such a horizontal framework will serve as the basis on which specific proposals to tackle sport piracy could build. therefore, it is all the more important to conclude the negotiations of the digital services act as fast as possible. in the meantime, the commission, as a priority, will fulfil the commitment taken up upon adoption of the copyright directive and complete its assessment of challenges of sport event organisers, building on the study i’ve just mentioned. be reassured that, as highlighted in the report, we will ensure that the impact on all parties involved and the balance of fundamental rights are taken fully into account. the commission will also need to assess whether – and to what extent – intervention to improve existing enforcement remedies would also be relevant for content other than sport exposed to piracy. to conclude, the commission is fully committed to better address the issue of online support piracy and is already taking action. we will thoroughly assess the ideas presented in the report and indicate the specific follow-up actions we intend to propose, in line with our commitment in respect of article 225 resolutions.
that concludes the item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 18 may 2021.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by daniel buda on reversing demographic trends in eu regions using cohesion policy instruments (2020/2039(ini)) (a9 0061/2021).
the reporter. madam president, first of all i would also like to thank the shadow reports, those who tabled amendments, and all those who contributed to the report. it starts from a worrying reality that the depopulation of rural areas of the poorest and the overcrowding of urban centres has a major impact on local communities and affects the lives of every european citizen. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. two categories of regions have been identified in terms of demographics: exporting regions and receiving regions, each requiring distinct policies. there are now instruments to help counteract depopulation or overcrowding, and i have highlighted integrated territorial investments in isolated areas or leader programmes in rural areas. the commission published a study on the impact of demographic change on the regions of the european union, and pre-pandemic data showed that approximately 5% of eu citizens were leaving their home regions each year in search of new opportunities. what is worrying is that they represent over 25% of the working population in the countries of eastern europe. of course, we have started this report on the basis that the free movement of persons is a fundamental value of the european union. the migration trend is more pronounced among the more educated population or workers with specialisations, without however minimising the migration of unskilled workers, especially from the agricultural sector. a thorny demographic problem is the overcrowding of urban or more developed areas, where we face difficulties generated by limited access to services and high living costs. the current health crisis has changed that. travel restrictions have significantly reduced the number of people leaving the country in search of opportunities, but after this pandemic, the migration phenomenon could return. we found that some authorities came up with ingenious solutions and made a significant contribution to mitigating these trends. for example, a lower tax on income from the it sector makes the brain drain from the it sector less pronounced, but we cannot say the same for medical staff. current demographic dynamics have implications for social, economic and territorial cohesion, so that eu investment is sometimes unsustainable, widening the gap between the most developed and the poorest regions. we call on the commission in this report to draw up in future a demography agreement containing subsidiary strategies to tackle this problem on the model of the green deal currently being implemented. it must ensure decent working conditions and a work-life balance. member states should use cohesion policy instruments to address demographic issues and national recovery and resilience plans should include measures to respond to demographic change. appropriate fiscal policies would stimulate job creation, and local and regional authorities need to facilitate access to education alongside the creation of effective policies to prevent brain drain. this will certainly be a challenge for the member states and the european union as a whole in the future, and we need concrete solutions.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank first the rapporteur for the presentation of this important report and also for his remarks. indeed, the demographic challenge is a major challenge for europe, because the working-age population in the eu has been shrinking for more than a decade and is projected to continue to shrink, and policies that improve employment rates and productivity will therefore be crucial to maintaining economic growth and improve quality of life. the success of our policies, however, should not be measured by whether it reverses this reduction in working age population. given the current age structure of the eu population, further reductions are inevitable, and many people in the eu will continue to live in areas with a shrinking population. the success of our policies should be measured by whether we can improve economic development and the quality of life in all territories. there are wide variations in demographic trends in europe between, and within, member states. some regions will face sharp population decline, while others will experience steady population growth. to identify the various demographic trends in eu territories, the commission produced a report on the impact of demographic change in europe last june and recently launched the atlas of demography. splitting regions into sending and receiving regions, brain drain versus brain gain, is a bit simplistic. it suggests that every movement inevitably produces winners and losers in a union where movement is one of the main four freedoms, and we had the opportunity to discuss already this important issue. brain circulation through moves from one place to another can produce both individual and collective benefits. people take the experiences, the education and often their partner with them when they move to a new region or to the region they grew up in. movement within the eu is not a one-way street. the circulation allows all regions to benefit. in the eu, more people move to rural regions than move out. this shows that on average, rural regions are attractive places to live in, which also benefit from the experience, the income and connections of the people moving in. one-size-fits-all approaches will not work. regional responses to demographic change must include multiple interventions and integrated approaches. both rapid growth and rapid decline should lead to adjustments of public services and infrastructure to the needs. a word on cohesion policy instruments to tackle demographic challenges. this commission is the first one with a portfolio explicitly dedicated to demography. it is already working on demographic change, including aging, and on developing a long-term vision, especially for rural areas, and this long-term vision aims at creating a new momentum specially for rural areas. the competences for relevant policies to deal with the demographic change are to a large extent in the hands of member states. however, the eu, and cohesion policy in particular, provide key financial levers for structural reforms and support national, regional and local policy-makers in their search for policies dealing with these changes. cohesion policy already includes multiple provisions to address demographic change. under the 2014-2020 framework, the specific needs of geographical areas which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps have been given special attention, and measures identified by member states in cohesion programmes show varieties of responses to demographic challenges. they include measures for boosting connectivity and digitalisation, economic development, reinforcing sustainability by adjusting measures to population shifts, as well as essential infrastructure and services such as childcare facilities, health care and long-term care. together with the valuable experience of other eu initiatives and structural reforms, rural development, research and innovation or education and training, they can provide inspiration and valuable lessons in order to make best use of all the resources available to support the socio-economic development of depopulated areas. cohesion policy in 2021-2027 will continue to invest, to tackle demographic challenges and aging in a place-based approach adjusted to the actual needs of territories; to support investments addressing causes and consequences of demographic change under all policy objectives: more competitive and smarter europe through innovation and digitisation; green and low-carbon europe – we had the discussion on the transition fund; more connected europe, connectivity and accessibility; more social and inclusive europe through social infrastructure and services; and finally, a europe closer to citizens, integrating territorial approaches and local initiatives. cohesion policy also provides a flexible and adaptable framework to address demographic challenges in a targeted and coordinated manner, while ensuring the participation of territorial authorities and local stakeholders. smart specialisation strategies help local partners identify regional assets and develop them in a cooperative process. moreover, a dedicated policy objective and instruments to integrate territorial and local development will be available to support local actors and exploit new opportunities, developing links between rural areas and cities, economic diversification of rural areas through the common agricultural policy – access to services, including digital services, is of crucial importance to assist regions to become more innovative and competitive and improve the quality of life for citizens and especially keep these citizens in the territories, which is the major aim. negative population trends are often accelerated as a result of the decline of certain sectors, again coming back to the just transition fund. here we have really to use this tool to prevent that the decline of certain sectors goes together with the decline of population, causing regions to become a less attractive place to live and work. so this is what we have to do to give new opportunities to this region. therefore the just transition mechanism is so important. cohesion policy can support investment in all these areas. technical support through the technical support instrument can complement cohesion policy to increase labour market participation of the long-term unemployed youth, older people or migrant integration in the labour market. the commission can provide technical support to member states that wish to undertake reforms in all these areas. when developing their partnership agreement and programmes, affected member states need to identify their demographic challenges and specific needs of regions and areas – in particular, disadvantaged areas – and set out an integrated approach to address them, depending on the resources and other policy measures. member states will even have the possibility to earmark dedicated funding. as a result, causes and consequences of demographic change can be specifically addressed. it is now the responsibility of each member state to propose a set of measures to tackle the challenges of depopulated areas during the negotiations of future cohesion policy programmes that are currently taking place in order to make best use of all the resources available to support the socio-economic development of all areas, and particularly of depopulated areas.
that concludes the item. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 may 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is a short presentation of the report by søren gade on securing the objectives of the landing obligation under article 15 of the common fisheries policy (2019/2177(ini)) (a9 0147/2021).
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr gade, and also the rapporteurs in the committee on fisheries (pech) for their work on this important report. the common fisheries policy highlights the need for measures to reduce the levels of unwanted catches and to eliminate discards, since they constitute a substantial waste and negatively affect the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and marine ecosystems, and thereby the financial viability of fisheries. as your report rightly notes, the landing obligation is key in that respect by avoiding and reducing unwanted catches and by ensuring that catches are landed. in the management of the landing obligation, it is necessary that member states do their utmost to reduce unwanted catches. to this end, the improvement of fishing techniques to make them more selective must have high priority. the commission is certainly aware that the full implementation of the landing obligation is a challenge for the fishing sector. that is why there was a phasing—in period, which would have allowed the industry to adjust and develop measures to avoid unwanted catches, notably by adopting more selective fishing methods. the phasing—in period also provided an opportunity for member states to implement harmonised controls to ensure control and enforcement of the landing obligation during fishing activities at sea. let’s not forget that, in 2013, when the common fisheries policy was reviewed, both co—legislators signed up for the landing obligation, and let’s not forget that this is what the european citizens had asked for to address wasteful practices of discarding unwanted fish. i agree that, unfortunately, there continues to be little or no data on whether overall discard rates are reducing. this, and the lack of compliance, as indicated, for example, by the commission’s audits, and the compliance evaluation reports of the european fisheries control agency, make it difficult to assess whether or not the reality at sea corresponds to a real change in behaviour and the adoption of more selective fishing techniques, as should be the case. however, intense cooperation and exchanges between member states, fishermen and women, and eu scientists, the parliament and the commission have taken place and have helped us reach a better and, in some instances, a common understanding of both the challenges and solutions in implementing the landing obligation. nevertheless, without effective control and enforcement, the landing obligation will not be successfully implemented. traditional controls, such as inspections at sea, inspections at landing, inspections at marketing and aerial surveillance, are incapable of ensuring control and enforcement of the landing obligations. it is the responsibility of member states to ensure the detailed and accurate documentation of catches and to ensure control enforcement and inspections of activities. i fully share your concern that implementation of, and compliance with, the landing obligation remains too weak. i also share your conclusion that innovative control tools have an important role to play. the parliament’s support of the commission’s proposal on the revised control regulation in this regard is vital and i welcome the result of the vote in plenary last march in favour of mandatory cctv for high-risk vessels above 12 metres, based on the risk analyses at regional level. there is no viable alternative to remote electronic monitoring systems. the need for a regionalised approach is also central. indeed, regionalisation is one of the cornerstones of the common fisheries policy. the principle of regionalisation also applies to the new technical measures regulation, which provides the necessary regional flexibility to change, amend and introduce measures that are adaptable to local specificities. this regionalised approach is also relevant when it comes to the financial support for member states under our european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund (emfaf) for implementing the landing obligation. the new fund will support innovation and investments that contribute to the implementation of the landing obligation with a higher aid intensity rate than the one that applies to other operations. this covers investments in selective fishing gears with 100%, and in the improvement of port infrastructures and in the marketing of unwanted catches with 75% each. as in every year, the commission will soon report on the state of play of the common fisheries policy, including on the implementation of the landing obligation. with regard to your call for information on the socio-economic impact and the effects on safety and working conditions, let me stress that the commission relies heavily on information provided by the member states, and member states need to ensure the reliability of this information. with regard to your demand for legislative changes, i have to say that there are no plans to launch a reform of the common fisheries policy. we are seeing positive results in the current system and we must provide some stability to the way we manage fisheries in europe. what we will do is to prepare, by 31 december 2022, the report to the european parliament and to the council on the functioning of the common fisheries policy. the landing obligation will be taken into account in this report as it is the cornerstone of our policy for achieving sustainable fisheries. in this regard, your report is very timely and relevant, and will be duly taken into account. thank you once again for this report. the commission looks forward to our continued cooperation on this important aspect of our common fisheries policy.
that concludes the item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 18 may 2021. (the sitting was suspended at 21.16)
the debate on the report by mrs monica silvana gonzález, on behalf of the committee on development, on the impact of climate change on vulnerable populations in developing countries (2020/2042 (ini)) - (a9-0115/2021) will continue.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first congratulate honourable member of the european parliament, ms gonzález, for her timely report on such an important topic. fighting climate change is a top priority for this commission, and our capacity to respond to it will transform lives in the years to come. we are working across all policies, with member states and like-minded actors, in developing a comprehensive approach that goes beyond managing disaster and displacements. indeed, while addressing the immediate needs of displaced people, in parallel we need to support efforts to boost resilience, prevention and preparedness. the preparation of the eu chairmanship of the platform on disaster displacement in 2022 is an important opportunity to work in this direction. first, let me re-assert that leaving no one behind and addressing inequalities must be at the core of our external action, and i welcome that this is one of the guiding ideas of the report. climate change is indeed a threat multiplier for inequalities. the ndici (neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument) ‘global europe’ regulation will be our instrument to forge international partnerships, to tackle inequalities and work on global challenges. it is innovative in many ways and contains two new spending targets: a 30% contribution to climate action objectives and an indicative 10% for supporting management and governance of migration and forced displacement, as well as addressing root causes of irregular migration and forced displacement. both targets mean spending significantly more than before. with ndici, we have a tool that allows us to have a lasting impact, and we must now focus on programming our future cooperation in line with our policy priorities. the commission looks forward to the upcoming high-level, geo-political dialogue with the european parliament to discuss this. second, the current discussion addressing the intertwined factors leading to population displacements is not new at global level and is a very difficult one. given the scope of the geneva convention and other protection schemes in place, for instance the nansen protection agenda, multilateral actors are focusing their work within the existing legal framework. at eu level, the political sensitivity of ongoing discussions, notably in the context of the new pact on migration and asylum, also needs to be taken into consideration. the existing international and eu legal framework may provide solutions on a case-by-case basis, in particular with regard to the principle of non-refoulement. of course, discussions on protection gaps in the legal framework should in any case continue, but in the meantime, i believe it is important that we act. finally, as this report highlights, climate change affects people differently, depending on a number of factors, including gender. as primary users and managers of natural resources, women play an essential role for climate change mitigation and adaptation and also on environmental protection. the eu is determined to protect women from environmental degradation and climate change, particularly in the context of fragile situations. all of our external action is undergoing a gender-mainstreaming exercise, and at least 85% of new actions implemented under ndici will have a significant impact on gender equality, in line with our gender action plan iii presented last year. i would like to thank once again the rapporteur and the deva committee for their important work, and i’m looking forward to hearing your thoughts.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, as the rapporteur of the environment committee’s opinion, i’m glad we’re acknowledging that only 10% of the global population is responsible for 52% of global emissions. we also acknowledge in this report that the eu has a historic and ongoing responsibility for climate system breakdown, but its those in the global south who are still today paying most dearly for our exploitation and footing the bill for our climate debt. i would start to take seriously the eu concerns about the impact climate change is having on vulnerable populations when it stops stealing trillions of euros from the global south each year, shows tax evasion, transfer, mis-pricing, expenditure, debt and aid arrangements and also starts to take seriously eu concerns for human rights when they start protecting the human rights of palestinians. if we care about human rights we will suspend relations with the criminal apartheid state of israel until they stop the genocide of the palestinian people and until palestine is free.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, climate change is happening right now as we speak, across the entire world. it is a reality here in europe and across the world in the lives of millions of people and we can see it with changing weather patterns and extreme weather events, such as floods and fires. yet some places, regions and communities are more vulnerable than others and many of these are the least developed countries and small island developing states. as the un high commissioner for refugees, filippo grandi, said last week when he appeared before the committee on development (deve) – and i agree with everything he had to say – we should focus our efforts on climate mitigation and adaptation efforts and, in my opinion, these must be at the top of our priority list. we must work on conflict resolution and increased support from the eu. we know that in europe, we passed the climate law, a monumental step forward. in ireland, the climate action bill will do ground—breaking work. but these critical actions must also apply to what europe does in other parts of the world, supporting ldcs and sids in tackling climate change. so how should we do this? first, we should support – and we need to get support from both private and public sectors – to finance the change and invest in innovation. this will cost trillions. we must have innovation using new methods and tools and emerging technologies to tackle this monumental challenge. and in doing so, we must be mindful of what we seek to protect: equality, opportunity, a good quality of life, as the commissioner said, leaving no one behind, a positive approach to health care and education for all. this is a global challenge that will require global solutions. europe is leading the way as the biggest contributor to climate finance in developing countries. we must continue to lead and take action now to support those populations that i have spoken about that are vulnerable to climate change in developing countries. we must do more. europe is leading the way.
mr president, the climate—related covid crisis has given us all a wake-up call. sadly, the world’s most vulnerable populations are already awake to the ravages of climate change. climate change is a political and ethical issue. the most vulnerable suffer, while the world’s wealthiest countries set ambitious goals but do little to achieve them. much of the developing world, shackled by crippling debt, is unable to adapt to the impact of rising sea levels, salinisation of water sources and extreme weather. it’s time to redress this shameful imbalance, time for the more privileged inhabitants of this planet to stop rolling over and hitting the snooze button when the alarm bell rings. in this respect, i am disappointed to see that some of my colleagues are not prepared to recognise climate refugees’ rights to international protection. we call on all those in positions of power – the commission, the member states – to wake up, protect climate refugees and implement international debt forgiveness in the face of the climate and pandemic crisis. while the planet is being wrecked by unsustainable practices, the developing world picks up the bill, a bill they are paying with their lives, and this is obscene.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in the midst of this current pandemic, i’m reminded of another epidemic, the hiv-aids epidemic back in the 1980s. back then, so many suffered such unnecessary stigma, uncertainty, pain and death. thankfully, things are now brighter for those living with hiv. men and women can be confident in the medical knowledge and the drug therapies available, and that the social stigma that the disease once carried is now decreasing, and of course we need to shift our focus to living well with hiv as it is now considered a disease which can be managed. people living with hiv are beginning to age and their health needs should be supported. however, we do have an ongoing crisis, and there remain huge challenges, unnecessary deaths and infections. the incidence of hiv has been increasing in ireland and elsewhere since 2011, despite greater public awareness and access to preventative treatments and policy commitments. therefore, there is a responsibility on us as policymakers to ensure there is a framework in place. there can be a new impetus and a proper strategy politically. we can engage with relevant stakeholders – advocacy bodies, academia, infectious diseases experts, people living with hiv and the pharmaceutical industry – to finally end aids as a public health threat by 2030.
madam president, lives have been lost in a mismatched and brutal assault as the world stands on the sidelines watching the horror unfold. latest reports put the death toll at 212. a chilling headcount that includes 61 children. meanwhile the us approves weapon sales to israel worth millions. in the eu many member states give tacit approval to the disproportionate israeli onslaughts by inaction and silence. how many more debates and resolutions must we have? we are failing the palestinian people. we need less talk. we need more leadership. leadership that starts with using eu powers as a trading bloc, demanding an end to forced evictions and enlargement of israel’s illegal settlements. leadership involving the eu’s consideration of all tools under its trade policy, including targeted sanctions and a re-evaluation of the eu-israel association agreement. my home country of ireland stands with the people of palestine. the world should too, and it should do so with deeds as well as words.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i welcome the commission’s communication on business taxation. i recognise that there are some very important points in it in terms of ensuring that we acknowledge that there are fundamental changes to the economy, not just in the context of the covid pandemic, but globalisation, digitalisation and the green deal itself. moving to an environmentally sustainable world economy is something that we have to adjust to in terms of how we fund it and how we ensure that we remain competitive as an entity in the european union and, at the same time, that we transfer the funding of the policies from labour and from some of the areas like income tax into the key areas where we know that there is additional income. but we also have to accept of course, commissioner, that a fundamental principle of the european union is the issue of national sovereignty around the issue of taxation. i am very concerned from time to time when i hear from the commission and others the continual commentary about using article 116 in the areas of taxation. i have no difficulties in having a robust debate and having varying views coming together on issues, but we have to accept the one fundamental principle that taxation is primarily a national sovereignty, and abusing or misusing the treaties or misinterpreting the treaties to try and get around that particular issue is an issue of concern. so i hope that we can have a robust debate and i look forward to the publication of the oecd’s recommendations at some stage in the future, where we can have a genuine discussion around the real key issues on how we fund the digital transition and the green economy in the years ahead. i look forward to that debate.
mr president, supporting the recovery of the audiovisual, cultural and creative sectors through better access to finance is a priority. i’m delighted that the creative europe programme, the only stand—alone programme focusing exclusively on culture and creative activities and enterprises, will see a financial increase of 17% in its overall budget, now more than ever. creative europe projects are creating, and can create, even more intercultural dialogue that helps bring communities together. we need to promote and use culture and the arts more as an opportunity to bridge gaps between people in a peaceful way and encourage mutual understandings, especially between europeans and host-country populations and refugees and migrants. my own member state, ireland, is the first and only country in the world to have a national day of free creativity for children and young people under this programme. it is called cruinniú na nóg and it will be celebrated on 12 june. projects like these are vital to support the creativity, culture, diversity and social inclusion of all people, especially our young people.
mr president, young people’s lives have been hard hit by covid. just as their lives opened up, we said to them ‘stay at home’. now, as we open up, we need erasmus to let young people spread their wings and learn, train and travel abroad, and not just university students but also those in vocational education, training and the sports programmes. brexit, like covid, has also clipped their wings, the wings of young people. i support the irish government’s shared island approach to restore access for northern irish students to erasmus+ and hopefully sports and youth exchanges will be included. i had the privilege of studying abroad in italy and i know the values of learning and living in another country, experiencing its life, its culture, its sports and its passions. the pandemic showed us that cooperation across borders is essential. our experiences abroad show us who we are and programmes like erasmus are key to our shared future.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i’d like to thank colleagues and the rapporteur for what i think were very fruitful negotiations on this file. there are aspects of the report that i’m not entirely happy with and i’ve tabled an amendment in that regard to the area that i find the most problematic, but overall i have to say i think the text well reflects both the huge importance of the fundamental rights agency and the esteem that it is held in by this parliament. i’m very glad to see as well that the call proposed by us for adequate resources for fra, which for too long has been the poor relation of eu agencies, is included and i hope the commission take that on board. i’m especially glad to see that the report’s call for observer status for countries in the european neighbourhood has been qualified by the requirement that the management board must agree on which countries can join. i mean israel, after all, is part of the european neighbourhood. i assume, given its criminal slaughter of civilians in gaza this week, as well as the years of serial and flagrant violation of international law and its endless war crimes, that the management board won’t be inviting them in any day soon. anti-semitism was mentioned by the rapporteur, and he’s right. it is a problem. but let’s be clear about it: criticising israel is not anti-semitism, it’s standing up for international law. recognising that the palestinian people were driven off their land and ethnically cleansed by a zionist project is not anti-semitism, it’s the truth. we did good work on this report, let’s see it through.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the environmental liability directive on the prevention and remedying of environmental damage is doing its job well. there is no need for new legislation in this area, only for clarification in certain areas. we cannot agree with the rapporteur's proposal to convert this directive into a fully harmonised regulation. this is of course important in terms of increasing the transparency of incident and environmental damage reporting data, but it cannot be done in breach of the rules on the protection or disclosure of business secrets. the european commission already has the instruments at its disposal to improve the effectiveness of the application of this directive. an effective support system is needed for those member states that have not yet implemented these provisions effectively. the proposed legislation also interferes too far with national powers in criminal matters. instead, we should ensure that european companies have sufficient financial capacity to meet their obligations in the event of environmental damage. the eqf cannot therefore support this report in its present form.
madam president, please. the protection of nature and the environment is the concern, the task and the responsibility of all economic actors. taking responsibility for environmental damage is key to ensuring that european businesses operate sustainably in the long term. to achieve this, it is necessary to have a proportionate regulation that does not impose an excessive and unnecessary administrative burden on, or make it impossible for, union companies, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to operate. it also provides adequate financial instruments to strengthen their competitiveness and market opportunities. the environmental liability directive applies to all companies operating in the eu's internal market, including companies incorporated outside the eu. responsible business conduct presupposes that companies pay due attention to environmental aspects, in particular the prevention of pollution. it is important that eu environmental legislation should help prevent such cases.
madam president, good evening from dublin. i agree: the environmental liability directive needs revision. environmental damage is a public health crisis. take transport, for example. the cost to society for climate change, noise, air pollution and loss of biodiversity is almost eur 1 trillion a year within the european union, and that’s the commission’s figures. premature deaths from poor air quality amount to 400 000 lives every year. so the ‘polluter pays’ principle must be applied. so i welcome this report for its provisions for corporate due diligence and specifically on the calls for support and access to justice for the victims of environmental damage. if we want to deliver on the european green deal and if we want to tackle climate and protect citizens then we need much higher levels of environmental protection. finally, dr aidan farrow of greenpeace says: ‘coal, oil, and vehicle companies continue to push outdated technologies, our health and our communities are paying the price’. our legislation has to catch up.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone who has worked on this file. we have argued that in amending the aarhus regulation, we should try to provide the highest standards of environmental protection possible, but at the very least, we should ensure that eu complies with the aarhaus convention and therefore with international law, which had not been the case. there were efforts to retain significant barriers to access to environmental justice and even to introduce some additional barriers, but to his credit, the rapporteur has improved things and the text we will vote on this week is a positive one. still, the text does fail to provide access to justice for individuals. therefore, we will not achieve full compliance with the convention and with international law, which was the aim of this amending regulation. but it is to be welcomed that the text no longer excludes measures that explicitly require national implementing measures. the text also now states that 18 months after the application of the amended regulation, the exemption for state-aid decisions will end. this too is a positive outcome. the text would significantly improve the ability of environmental ngos to challenge eu decisions. i hope the council will support parliament’s text. i also hope the irish government will support parliament’s text. only last week, in the irish parliament, the taoiseach criticised the environmental ngo an taisce’s decision to appeal a high court decision in relation to a planning decision for a proposed cheese plant on the basis that it would lead to increased carbon emissions and further fuel ireland’s already unsustainable dairy expansion. there were even calls for an taisce to be defunded. the two right-wing parties in ireland, fianna fáil and fine gael, had been supporters of big dairy for many years, at the expense of small farmers and the environment in ireland. it was bad enough that since 2015, the irish government and irish banks have been, regardless of the environment, encouraging farmers to borrow money and increase the size of their dairy herd, putting many young farmers into debt and at the mercy of the banks and finding themselves running to stand still just to make a living. the cheese plant in question is a joint venture with a dutch firm who are looking to use ireland to make cheese because the dutch have reduced their dairy herd, while ireland is increasing theirs. that amounts to an irish government in climate change denial. ireland is a signatory of the aarhus convention and an taisce clearly has a fundamental right to challenge decisions that contravene environmental law. it’s disappointing that at the same time that the european parliament is amending the aarhus regulation to comply with the convention, a member state government like ireland’s is using political pressure to undermine the fundamental rights the convention bestows.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. public scrutiny is necessary and important for large-scale environmental interventions. in fact, we are constantly confronted with a variety of interests in environmental interventions, whether at national, regional or local level, or at the level of companies or individuals. the desire for development and new projects brings us to the point where we have to ask ourselves what is prioritized and what is more important, necessary and sustainable. if we put ourselves in the position of a concerned or affected citizen, it is important for him that the public is involved in the decision-making process from the very beginning, when all options are still open and things can still change significantly or even stop if necessary. it is important for people to have a clear definition of which institutions are competent and responsible for what. only then will the public concerned be able to take an effective stand for the environment. i am also a strong advocate of open and transparent government and a clear division of powers. citizens are too often left in the lurch when no institution is willing to take responsibility and act appropriately in the event of an environmental disaster or in the case of the interests of environmentally unfriendly capital. as parties to the aarhus convention, we recognise that adequate protection of the environment is essential for human well-being and for the realisation of fundamental human rights, including the right to life itself. the implementation of the green deal is a central policy of the european union. the european union also aims to make people more involved in shaping and deciding on policies and issues that affect them.
mr president, i welcome the revision of the aarhus convention rules. for me, environmental protection is a matter of justice, it is inextricably linked to the rule of law and it is a responsibility to our children. we rely on local authorities to enforce community environmental standards, but in our forests, bears are still being killed, trees are still being cut down and garbage is still being illegally dumped. this must stop and it is our duty to make every effort to do so. first of all, citizens, activists, civil society must be part of european environmental policy, they must have access to information and to justice. where the efforts of the commission and national bodies are not sufficient, environmental ngos must be able to intervene in their capacity as protectors of nature. nature cannot go to court, which is why we need civil society to bring all criminals to justice, whether they are simple poachers or members of royal families. i therefore appreciate that the text explicitly states that the judicial procedure must be accessible. secondly, but very importantly, we need a functioning pan-european mechanism for environmental crime, regardless of borders. there are no 27 separate natural environments in the union. we only have one and it's common. i ask the commission once again to come up with a proposal for a mechanism similar to the european public prosecutor's office, to rid european habitats of criminals.
mr president, on 19 may 1990, on this very day 31 years ago, the irish national broadcaster reported that there was now scientific consensus that we were entering a period of dramatic change and uncertainty in the world’s climate. that was 31 years ago and yet today, years after the rio earth summit, kyoto and paris, we have had to keep up the arduous struggle against governments and corporate interests who are keen on ignoring the warning signs. every friday, school strikers across ireland, europe and across the world are still rightly demanding climate and environmental justice. access to justice is a cornerstone of any democracy worthy of its name. without it, people are unable to hold decision makers accountable. climate justice is our response to the moral failings of our politics and our economics. individuals, communities, and organisations must have the right to hold not just member states, but also eu institutions, to account for decisions taken on the environment. the changes we are voting on this week as a parliament, while they could go further, are key to holding the eu to the commitments of the aarhus convention and ensuring real democratic control in the eu on environmental matters. the eu should have nothing to fear from stronger, broader access to justice. if we are serious about implementing the european green deal and the sustainable development goals, then eu environment laws must be up to the task. if we are not, they must be challenged by individuals, communities and ngos. it is simply a case of accountability, of environmental democracy. as a legislator, i am proud to stand for broader access to climate and environmental justice.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. today's european citizens and even future generations should have the right to enjoy an environment that is good for their health and well-being. this brings a responsibility on all of us to give the green light when this right is jeopardised, especially when environmental risks are placed at the bottom of the priority list in projects being developed in our communities. therefore, we needed a better aarhus regulation than the one proposed by the european commission. our biodiversity, our water, our air quality and our soil cannot do this fight for our future generations. we are their voice and in a climate emergency it should be our legacy to ensure that we leave behind a healthy environment, if possible, better than what we have created. how can the european union have reservations about ensuring full compliance with the aarhus convention? on access to justice for citizens on environmental issues? i 'm not ! we have a moral obligation to be global pioneers in this field. citizens cannot wait any longer.
mr president, the people are ahead of the politicians. they know government and administration should be conducted in the open, not behind closed doors. thirty years ago the rio declaration said environmental issues are best handled with the participation of all concerned citizens at the relevant level. that is still the case, and it’s good that we reference both the european court of justice and the european green deal in parliament’s wording. eighteen months ago the urgenda case in the supreme court of the netherlands said the state must act on climate change. three weeks ago in germany, the luisa neubauer case in the german constitutional court made history, and next month in ireland an environmental non-governmental organisation an taisce will seek permission to overturn a planning permission for a cheese plant promoted by the dutch company royal a-ware and irish company glanbia that will encourage increases in greenhouse gas emissions. what all three cases have in common is that they require access to justice in environmental matters. currently internal reviews are limited to administered acts of individual scope. this must be extended to acts of general application, and the red tape and bureaucracy must be reduced. we must legislate to ensure citizens’ and ngos’ voices are heard when they specifically and broadly query european institutions. we must ensure that the environment is protected. that is the spirit of our house.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not democracy is when an individual citizen takes legal action and unlawful contractual practices that violate basic rights are overturned. democracy would be better off if he didn't have to do that all the time. and the best thing would be for the commission, the guardian of the treaties, to stop playing the fool and take action. yes, privacy shield is as illegal as safe harbor was, and we've known that for a long time. what we don't need right now is some kind of privacy harbor. data transfer without a level of protection for personal data within the meaning of the gdpr is prohibited, period! there is nothing more to be said, nor can there be any help from the standard, half-silk clauses. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. ladies and gentlemen, if we have half the cups in the cupboard, we cannot certify the united kingdom with an adequate level of data protection for data transfer. cambridge analytica, the tempora bugging programme, the power bill - downing street needs one clear answer from you: no, sir! privacy is not a peach on a potato salad. data protection is a fundamental right and it must be defended now!
mr president, the united kingdom is now a third country and as with all third countries, we need to carefully assess its level of data protection before we allow personal data transfer to take place without any condition. this is essential because those trans-border data flows between the eu and the uk are so important. they are important for our economy, for small and big businesses, they are important for our citizens and they are important for our common fight against crime. and as we all know until very recently the uk was a member of the european union and it is therefore evident, also in the words of the european data protection board, that many aspects of the law and practice in the uk are essentially equivalent to the eu and that there is a strong alignment between the gdpr and the uk legal framework. and i’m surprised, therefore, that some colleagues here are arguing that we cannot allow this adequacy decision with the uk to pass. no adequacy for a third country that even the edpb characterizes as essentially equivalent. if we can’t apply it to the uk, who can we then apply it to? unless you want to stop cross—border data transfers altogether and all move back to the 19th century, to the detriment of our citizens, of our businesses and of our security. i fully support the approach of the european commission, but that doesn’t mean that there are no concerns and i count on you, commissioner reynders, to take the recommendations of the edpb seriously and to make sure that this decision will stand the test of time by closely monitoring all developments in the uk in this area and respond swiftly where necessary.
mr president, in this chamber, i think we all agree on the importance of data protection, both as a fundamental right and as a key enabler for the digital economy. the continuation of eu—uk data flows after 30 june will depend on the adoption of the adequacy decisions. my group has always supported the use of adequacy decisions as they provide citizens and businesses with a clear and solid legal basis for the exchange of personal data. we cannot leave our enterprises without a solution. indeed, we need to protect the businesses with cross—border data flows that are crucial for economic development and innovation. that is why my group is calling on the commission today to adopt the adequacy decisions in a timely manner in order to avoid any disruptions for european and uk companies. for this reason, we also do not support the resolution of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe).
mr president, ireland’s subservience to multinationals is well known. i’ve spent half my political life calling it out. it’s very problematic, but it’s not the problem here, and suggesting that ireland is the source of europe’s privacy ills, as the schrems resolution does, ignores very real problems. we have dedicated, well—intentioned staff in regulators all over europe hobbled by the fact that they’re facing off against hordes of highly paid lawyers in multinationals, with infinite resources, infinite time, infinite wealth and so on. only nine data protection authorities (dpas) say that they have enough resources, and the commission and the eu has given them no extra funding. we have complaints about the delays, but little acknowledgment that the delays have got nothing to do with the irish regulator. big tech can bury regulators with procedural queries and legal arguments, as they are legally entitled to do, and, when they get through all of that, they need to get agreement with the other european colleagues on that. the twitter case alone took seven months in the european data protection board (edpb) stage. i’d love it if all the problems were on ireland’s door, but it’s not as simple as that. the sooner we get off that bandwagon, the better we’ll be able to deal with our problems.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no more money for the roma, no more wasting our citizens' money on the roma and sinti. from 2014 to 2020, europe spent over €21 billion on roma integration programmes: a mountain of money wasted for nothing in italy. roma integration is practically zero, because they are the ones who do not want to integrate! if you don't believe me, come to italy and see how roma have not integrated. ask the mayors, the carabinieri, the police, the citizens who have the misfortune to live near the roma camps. watch television, read newspapers, and every day you will find avalanches of news about the problems caused by nomads. and don't let anyone say we're racist, because we're not racist. we're just saying things that are true and documented, that happen every day. mr president, i would like to thank you for your report. the billions you want to give to the roma should be given to our citizens, to our unemployed, to italian families in difficulty. we have a duty to help italian businesses and workers overwhelmed by the covid emergency and not the roma, so dear to the false benefactors of the italian and european left.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in the last ten years, we have experienced the approach of soft policies and things have not changed for my romani people. the commission presents a new framework for the next ten years with almost the same content, but under a new title and supported by a council recommendation. however, this will produce no significant change and the eu is losing credibility on the topic because of this continuous superficial approach. let me show you what value your recommendation has for whom, and we have a responsibility. this is a picture from ten years ago of tinca, a marginalised romani community in romania, with children waiting, as you can see, for some food to keep them alive. this is another picture of the same tinca as it is now. the situation is worse than ten years ago and the children are even bitten by rats in the middle of the night. this is the case for a million souls in europe. these are european romani citizens, but they are forgotten and not saved by this recommendation. is their pain making you happy? is this what you still want to see after another ten years of soft policies and recommendations? really? hey, this is an emergency, not a game. the eu has already played a game with the lives of these kids. please take it seriously and put an end to this senseless practice and soft policies. if you want to convince yourself, look at the evaluation of the commission on the last framework. even this is saying that the approach is not efficient. make a law, exactly as the resolution of september 2020 of the european parliament is calling on the commission. this is the solution and this will make the eu credible. commissioner dalli, please accept my deepest gratitude for all the support that you have given and shown to me and for my people until now. however, i look into your eyes and i’m telling you that you are a major source of hope for my people. you are my hope for making a romani law real. this is the solution, not the soft policies. we are ready – i am ready – to support you even more to make change happen. so i am asking you: are you ready and willing to makes the law possible or are we going to play the same game for another ten years? (applause)
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i have to say i’m really sick of listening to talk about traveller and roma inequality and exclusion and nothing changing, and my own country ireland is an example of that. we are waiting for more than 10 years for a traveller health action policy and there still isn’t one, despite the fact that traveller men have a life expectancy of 66 years – 15 years younger than their peers. we have a roma national and traveller national inclusion strategy, no clear implementation plan, no significant resources. we have a traveller education strategy – no sign of it happening. no action on housing – 15% of travellers homeless, many more in unsuitable accommodation and nothing is done. but let’s be honest about it. racism is at the heart of the problem. it is one of the reasons why nothing is being done. and unless we tackle this, take action and invest resources then nothing will change.
we now move on to the second round of voting. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods and all votes shall be cast by roll-call. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:00. the results of the votes will be announced at 4.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.46 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the serious impact of the recent spring frost on fruit and wine producers by mr norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000032/2021 - b9-0016/2021) (2021/2696 (((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. agriculture is the sector most affected by climate change. whether it is drought or frost, any extreme weather has a direct impact on the yield of our european farmers. this year it has hit our fruit and wine growing in particular. the worst spring frost since 1991 has led to historic crop losses, sometimes as high as 100 percent. this is an economic disaster for the affected producers who are still suffering from the covid crisis. the frequency of these extreme situations is increasing year by year. i see it as the european union's task to adapt our risk management tools to help our farmers. that is what we are doing as a parliament. in the current cap negotiations on european agricultural reform, we are working on improvements. and i am sure that this will help the producers a lot in the future in case of losses. but our farmers need support now. even if we as a parliament are working hard to conclude the negotiations next week, it is too late for the losses that already exist. i would ask the commission to examine the funds available here and to help our farmers. we must also think about the future, and here the committee on agriculture has three questions for the commission, mr commissioner. firstly, how does the commission intend to improve the existing risk management instruments? the committee on agriculture is committed to greater flexibility in the implementation of innovative instruments in the strategic plans. are you considering this? secondly, what measures will the commission propose to help the farmers affected to cope with the damage caused by the frost? and thirdly, how does the commission intend to improve the adaptation of crops to climate change? how do we promote research and innovation in this area? i have always said, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that agriculture is part of the solution to the problem of the environment and climate change, not the problem. she has to adapt and she will. at the same time, it is the only sector that can naturally store co2 and thus contribute to climate protection automatically. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope you will support me in this, commissioner.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much, thank you mr lins for your questions, and thank you for your camaraderie for putting this very important topic on the agenda. honourable members of the european parliament, risk management requires three essential elements: risk prevention and adaptation to new conditions, in particular environmental and climate ones, the right risk management tools to deal with it, and an adequate budget to finance it. currently the common agricultural policy offers various options to help farmers to adapt to new production conditions and manage their business risk, mainly through sectoral market programmes financed by the guarantee fund or rural development programmes financed by the rural development fund. risk prevention and adaptation to new conditions is important and can be improved. sectoral fruit and vegetable and wine programmes can play a key role to help growers to adjust to climatic events. rural development programmes allow member states to offer public support aiming at helping farmers increase the resilience of their businesses at holding level. the common agricultural policy already supports compensation schemes to cover production losses caused, for instance, by adverse climatic events such as frost. farmers may receive public support to address the risk from climate-related events from all risk management instruments, such as insurance, mutual funds or income stabilisation tools. furthermore, support for the restoration of production potential damaged by natural disasters is possible. i wanted to point out to you that the cap tools are available. however, in order to implement them, and to make them available for farmers, member states and sectoral producers’ organisations have to activate them in their programmes. about risk management in the future cap. in the future cap we have to do more. the commission recognises the increased exposure of the sector to climate-related risks. the proposal for the post-2020 common agricultural policy that we are currently debating in the trilogue negotiations delivers on the needs of risk management and use of innovative tools to be included in the preparation of the cap strategic plans. the cap can provide support to help farmers manage their production and income risks from unexpected weather events outside their control. specifically, insurance and mutual funds, including income stabilisation tools, should remain possible but support will also be possible for other more innovative risk management tools. member states will be required to conduct a needs assessment and approach the objective strategically, including the planning and implementation of relevant support schemes. such a strategy needs to include support to withstand unexpected shocks. the scope of the risk management tools under the frd has been widened to accommodate the above-mentioned needs. concerning the budget. you are aware that we discussed the agriculture reserve during the trilogue on the horizontal regulation on 23 april. at that time, the council presidency stressed that the council’s general approach reflects the july 2020 european council decisions. as you remember, the euco set a fixed amount of eur 450 million per year as a crisis reserve. i understand that for the european parliament it is crucial to have a more flexible reserve. i’m sure this point will be on the agenda at the super trilogue next week. in relation to the second question: does the commission intend to propose any measures to help the farmers concerned overcome the losses caused by the frost? as this stage, the commission is not intending to activate sectoral support measures connected to the frost damages caused this year in the wine and fruit and vegetable sectors. however, close monitoring of the situation in the sectors will continue, keeping the option open to react were needed. the immediate issue is the potential impact on harvest later this year. crop losses due to the frost comes at a time when wine producers have already been hit hard by covid-19 lockdowns and bar and restaurant closures as well as the cancellation of wine fairs and loss of revenue from tourism. therefore, the monitoring and assessment of the situation in the wine and food sectors should also consider the extensive and extraordinary support that is being provided to the agricultural sector as a response to the covid pandemic. this includes the expanded state aid options and other dedicated support schemes, such as under the frd exceptional temporary support to farmers and smes particularly affected by the covid-19 crisis. for the sectoral market programmes, the commission could consider, where feasible, adjustments in existing fruit and vegetable and wine programmes in order to make risk management more attractive, without leading to additional expenditure – the normal programming. for the rural development programmes, the legal proposal for the post-2020 common agricultural policy currently debated in the trilogue negotiations delivers on the needs, risk management and use of innovative tools to be included in the preparation of the cap strategy plans. farmers increasingly face the consequences of the climate and biodiversity crisis. it is therefore crucial that the new cap helps our farmers become more resilient. as regards the last question: what action the commission is planning to take in the field of research to improve the adaptation of crops to climate change? research and innovation have a key role to play in helping permanent crops to adjust to climate change, including late frost. research and innovation can contribute by developing adapted breeds that can better deal with the late frost. both the framework programme for research and innovation and the cap eip-agri have contributed solutions to this important issue. this is no one-size-fits-all solution to this issue, but a large number of approaches that can fit specific crops and locations in the eu. several eu research and innovation projects have contributed to solving this issue. for instance, innovine research and innovation project aimed at developing knowledge tools and genetic resources necessary to better adapt viticulture to climate change. the euberry project developed a technical innovation to control spring frost with low water consumption. that will be a topic in the horizon europe work programme 2021-2022, which will deal with the development of adaptation strategies that can potentially bring additional solutions. on the site of the eip-agri under the cap, a focus group has dealt specifically with this issue in a very comprehensive manner in the fruit sector in 2019 and reviewed the various possible approaches to deal with it. a number of bottom-up projects, the so-called eip-agri operational group, are focused on this issue.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the late frosts in the first days of april have unfortunately affected very large parts of europe, and unfortunately not for the first time. in recent years we have seen a recurrence of late frosts, very widespread, even in areas where late frosts are rarely observed, such as the mediterranean. unfortunately, as you have just said, mr commissioner, it has hit those farmers who have already been hit hard by the covid crisis: the fruit and vegetable sector and, above all, the wine sector. the question therefore is how we can help these farmers. i agree with you, commissioner, that we must think of an efficient crisis system and we need a faster response. but we must also ensure that the market does not exploit this situation. the supply will be reduced, the prices will rise, and unfortunately, we see this time and again, that distributors, the big supermarket chains, take advantage of these situations to unfairly raise prices. i think that is not in the interests of farmers and certainly not in the interests of consumers. but the central issue - which you have also raised, commissioner - is the question of how we deal with risk management systems. i have to say that far too few farmers and far too few farms are still insured, partly because the member states do not offer any useful tools, partly because farms cannot afford to insure themselves or simply do not want to do so. we need new approaches here. we must ensure that a large proportion of farms in europe are also insured against frost and other climatic phenomena. and i think we should be open to all the new instruments that are being presented here. the member state i come from has also, in the course of these trilogue negotiations now taking place, come up with new ideas on how to improve such risk management systems. i think we should support that. every new approach is an important and good approach for the future.
the picture of our farmers, who are working day and night with candles and braziers to defend their vineyards or orchards against the exceptional frost last april, cannot leave us indifferent once again. productive sectors, which are essential not only for ensuring our food security but also for the number of jobs they generate, have suffered losses that are close to the total of their production. this situation is compounded by the dramatic effects of the covid-19 pandemic and poses a serious threat to the social and economic sustainability of rural europe. we can no longer allow catastrophic events of this kind, which are becoming more frequent and directly linked to climate change, to be met only by the commitment and the spirit of sacrifice of our producers. we therefore ask you, commissioner, to intervene promptly in order to activate the exceptional measures to combat such situations, provided for in article 219 of the regulation on the common organization of the market (com). the measures have already been used for similar situations in recent years, providing a partial but vital relief to producers in the affected areas. but beyond emergency management, a longer-term vision is needed of how the european union intends to stand alongside its agricultural producers to effectively tackle this global challenge with a common and highly coordinated approach. in this sense, as you said, commissioner, the reform of the common agricultural policy which we are about to complete offers an unmissable opportunity for a substantial improvement in the tools available to european farmers for managing and mitigating the risks inherent in farming. despite the progress made in recent years, we are increasingly aware that the existing instruments are not adapted to the changing climatic conditions of our territories. this is a shortcoming which could be remedied by strengthening, as proposed by parliament, the exceptional measures to deal with market disturbances provided for in the cmos regulation. we are also strongly calling for a part, albeit limited, of the funds allocated to the direct segments of the cap to be used to finance a safety net to protect all european producers from catastrophic events such as those which struck several regions last april. president, commissioner, our farmers and farm workers have repeatedly demonstrated their self-sacrificing spirit, not least during the pandemic, when they ensured that food kept coming to our tables, at the risk of their own health. now is the time to show the european union's solidarity by standing with them in facing the future challenges of the sector.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cyril is an organic winegrower in mont-près-chambord in the loir-et-cher region of france, close to my home. it produces a particularly elaborate wine, with a terroir expression, with historical grape varieties adapted to a rather mild cultural model that seeks quality above all. last month i went to his estate of about 12 hectares to see the damage caused by the frost: the result was terrible. this is worse than i thought. his crop was largely compromised and he even feared for the survival of his vines. the fault lies in a surprisingly marked cold for this period, where the frost was a winter frost at -7 °c, rather than a normal spring frost at -2 °c for this period. the impact is violent. the vineyard keeper can't fight, despite his antifreeze equipment installed in the vines. it was the previous episode, much too hot, that caused the vines to bud prematurely. it is the climate change that is at issue. worse, and this is the most worrying, while his predecessor suffered an episode of extreme cold, once every 12 to 15 years, so three times in 45 years, cyril will have experienced one every two years since he took office, ten years ago: five in ten years. the climate disruption has made these uncertainties not exceptional but commonplace. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as farmers and as politicians, this year we have once again a foretaste of the threats to our food security and an illustration of the weakness of the cap now and in the years to come. the gravity of the situation requires our full attention and action. we owe it to our farmers and to european food sovereignty. first of all, there is of course an urgent need to help the producers. at their level, states can act, in particular on burden-relieving and deferral of financial deadlines, and by easing cap support payments. as regards compensation, the union is going to start work on a reform and, as you said, mr commissioner, on the reform of crop insurance. the present private insurance is too expensive and poorly calibrated, and is not popular with the peasants. in the end, it is usually the public authorities, and therefore the taxpayer, who are called upon to contribute. a permanent multiannual mutual insurance scheme accessible to the greatest number of people would obviously be welcome. this is a consideration which should be urgently included in the current cap reform, which includes a proposal for risk cover, but which is insufficient. a continuous mutual insurance system would be more efficient in the long run, but insurance is only expedient. the most important thing is to take more profound action in the medium and long term on the industrial agriculture model that has prevailed for the last 60 years. this model, which is partly responsible for the climate catastrophes we see year after year, is also incapable of responding to the consequences of these same catastrophes. the current and future cap is a structural obstacle to the emergence of the necessary agronomic changes and to future food sovereignty. agroecology, new varieties, adaptation of practices, better water management, etc. - all these are essential but not at all accompanied projects. a paradigm shift is essential. we must urgently put words into action. the green deal for europe and the farm to fork and biodiversity strategies need to move from theory and rhetoric to concrete implementation. this requires a completely new cap, far from what is being negotiated today. this serious freezing episode must encourage us to get out of the false-looking. we have to stop talking; we have to do. we owe it to cyril and to all the other peasants of the european union.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, the discussion today focuses very much on southern europe and i have a particular interest in italia. i thought it would only be right to wear the torino jersey today, given that their draw with lazio on tuesday night means they survive in serie a. this is very important for a lot of people. i grow a little wine in piemonte and i’ve been familiar with the frost for a few years, believe it or not. i’ve built and operated italian wine bars in dublin, and so i have a lot of contacts with producers in italy. speaking to some of these producers, there is a shared understanding about the problems. obviously, it’s hard to find consensus on the way forward. there are many problems facing the wine industry and agriculture, in general. some are connected to global warming, others are connected to privatisation and the neo—liberalisation of the agricultural sector. the fact of the matter is that the neo—liberal ideology not only drives us faster towards climate systems breakdown, but compounds the disastrous effects of the ravages of climate change. we are generally talking about southern europe in the debate, but the trend is global. it’s impossible to talk about just one sector of agriculture, because it’s all connected. some sectors of agriculture, like dairy and beef, are contributing to climate catastrophe. some forms of agriculture are helping to make other forms of agriculture precarious. the world over, intensive big—input farming has made deserts out of perfectly decent arable land. millions have been displaced and often there are secondary displacements as conflicts over reduced access to essential resources flare up. this is the context of global warming: the violent and forced suppression and control of the global south, which is used as a site of resource extraction to feed the perpetual growth of the global north as it continues to billow out carbon emissions and speed along climate disaster. not only does the eu help destroy the environment where it extracts its raw material from, it ensures that these areas of extraction do not have the resources available to mitigate and implement the most basic mechanisms to protect their own populations from destruction. now european agriculture is suffering from the effects of global warming that the developed world’s capitalist system helped bring about. the spring frosts and extreme weather events have become part of everyday life, and even if the global north were to take real action to deal with climate change, which means degrowth, it would take many years before we would start seeing signs of improvement, but start we must. the producers that i have spoken to have all said that the best thing for them as farmers would be for the eu to engage in real climate action. bruno rivetti, a producer in neive in piemonte said to me: these increasingly frequent and intense frost waves are the consequences of climate change due both to pollution and to the exploitation of the land and natural resources. he says we must learn to rethink our earth and the planet we live on as a precious asset, not only for us, but above all for our children and for the generations to come. there are also calls for investment in research into mitigation practices and so on, but the fact of the matter is, the best defence against a late frost at the moment is pruning later in the year. now this means the pruning process will have to take place much more quickly for vineyards of any size and this means investment in expensive equipment that can automate a part of the pruning process. this leads us to another problem: the bureaucracy involved at all levels of wine production and agriculture in general has become unworkable. there are ever more private intermediaries between the farmer and his or her local organisation and the grant money available. i spoke to a producer in lazio, marco marocco, and he said: i don’t know if europe can help us. the biggest problem we have in italy that perhaps europe can help us with, is to solve our bureaucratic problem, even to have access to the old european fund. many vintners that i know, they renounce to participate, to ask for european funds because they’re terrified by the quantity of bureaucracy that we have to face, because here in italy it’s a crazy situation. it’s a crazy situation, he says and it’s a huge problem. he said: i applied for a european fund five years ago. i had an answer after five years. they just let me know that i was not in because they’d finished the money. after five years, you know. i could even be dead after five years. it’s all connected. and unless you see that colonialism, wars, capitalism, privatisation and endless growth are leading to destructive spring frosts in europe, we are condemning all farmers everywhere to increased devastation of their livelihoods. we have a responsibility to protect food producers and, sadly, the last cap and the new one are still giving 80% of the money to the 20% richest farmers. we are still giving the money to the farmers that don’t need it. the money has to go to the farmers that need it if we want them to survive, if we want to help them to move away from chemical fertilisers and pesticides. this can’t happen unless we help them. but we’re not doing it, we’re still giving the money away to those with the most power and the most money.
i would like to start by thanking my colleague césar luena for all the work he has done on this very important file. important because we are living in unprecedented times in human history. we have a climate and ecological emergency which, among other things, has resulted in one in eight species of flora and fauna being at risk of extinction today and if this known reality does not make us learn from it and change our methods, we will not only lead to the extinction of these species, but we will also do more damage to our health as humans. this week, having heard a lot of talk about the economy and trade, the president of the maltese chamber of commerce, marisa xuereb, made a heartfelt appeal for the environment and i will repeat it here today. we're still in time. it is not too late to change the way we work to save our future. however, we are not early either, and no ambition can be considered too excessive. this strategy of protecting biodiversity, for the first time based on science, and making small changes to what we are used to doing, but yielding big results, is therefore a step in the right direction to protect the environment and ourselves.
mr president, after the lockdown in what feels like one of the longest and darkest winters of our lifetime, many people across ireland and europe are heading to the seashore to enjoy the sunshine and splash in the sea. unfortunately, too many beaches suffer from failure to protect biodiversity and sensitive ecosystems. in 35 places in ireland alone, beaches are still polluted with raw sewage, as highlighted in a recent sea change campaign this month, and on the spectacular skellig islands, a unesco world heritage site, sea birds have been building their nests from tonnes of plastic discarded in the oceans each year. so this week, here in the european parliament, we must call for urgent action to protect marine biodiversity by creating bigger and better marine protected areas, by having legally—binding targets for plastic—free oceans by 2030 and by calling for an ambitious global ocean treaty. tomorrow it is high time to take action, to seize the moment and to support a strong eu biodiversity strategy that protects nature – marine and terrestrial – systemically and fundamentally. so please, vote for nature.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, high representative, dear colleagues, the withdrawal of the allied troops will be a testing momentum for afghanistan, the afghan people and for all of us. the european union must remain the guarantor of maintaining and continuing these so hard-won achievements in the past 20 years. since 2002, nine million afghan children were brought to schools, healthcare services were provided to more than 90% of the territory, which have allowed to reduce the newborn mortality rate by half. we need a comprehensive strategy for future cooperation with afghanistan. the european union development aid has to be conditioned to respecting women’s rights, their education and participation in public life, as well as the protection of the rights of children and minorities. continuing fight against corruption, ensuring good governance and transparent use of financial support are equally important. this must be an eu condition, not a hopeful wish. the danger that the taliban could become the dominant political force is of particular concern. transition to a new political reality after the peace process must bring reconciliation and stability, otherwise we will witness another wave of insecurity followed by divisions and emigration.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, today, the taliban are sweeping afghanistan, taking control of multiple government control districts. hundreds of people have been killed in the past few days alone. the us has supported the mujahideen in afghanistan, the contra death squads in nicaragua, al-qaeda in syria and yemen and neo—nazis in ukraine. as the current national security adviser, jake sullivan, famously wrote to hillary clinton in 2011, ‘al-qaeda is on our side in syria’. what nato has done to afghanistan is a crime against humanity. the us couldn’t tolerate the old socialists stepping in to run the country after the taliban. instead of allowing independence, nato and the cia empowered drug-running militias and warlords to try to keep control of the countryside. they killed countless civilians, spawned more armed opposition and created millions of refugees in the process. there is no central government in afghanistan. twenty years of this and we’re watching a civil war in motion. this is your democracy and human rights promotion in practice. the situation of women in afghanistan was better 40 years ago, but that was before the us and saudi armed the mujahideen.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! what exactly is the point of our debate today? the need to ask the question: what kind of european union do we want? because what these debates really indicate is that a large part of parliament would like the european union to be a federalist union of states. or do you want a united union like the soviet union? one thought, one advice, one way of looking at the world. your tolerance ends where other people's opinions begin. whereas for me abortion is the killing of a human being, for the state it is a civil right. are you offended? are you upset? i'm not surprised. if we are not different and if we are not united in diversity, then the european union is really going nowhere. what kind of european union do we want? union and its values and principles. if the vice-president of the european parliament says that member states whose governments she does not like should be starved, the state is exercising a dictatorship.
madam president, this european parliament is the only directly elected institution in the architecture of the union and, in the course of its history, its power as a motor of democratic legitimacy has only grown. the conference on the future of europe is now under way: bottom-up, citizens' proposals from the bottom up. can anyone think that it will not emerge as a demand from the citizens that this parliament complete its powers of control over the executive arm of the union which comprises the council and the commission? can anyone think that there will be no demand for question time, ordinary parliamentary control and a power of inquiry to give full effect to the provisions of article 226 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union? do you think anyone will understand that this cannot happen because the two institutions which must be controlled by the european parliament are opposed to each other? the answer can in no way be silence or blocking. it is therefore absolutely essential to bring about this maturation of the ordinary parliamentary control which every parliament exercises over the executive commission, council and, of course, effective regulation it is high time of the european parliament's committees of inquiry.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would first like to thank all of you for your comments and remarks. let me reiterate again that the commission attaches great importance to parliament’s role of scrutiny and political control, of which the ultimate aim is to guarantee that citizens’ concerns regarding the implementation of union law are properly addressed. the commission therefore fully acknowledges the need to have an adequate scrutiny instrument, and as i mentioned already, the 2018 non-paper represents progress compared to earlier proposals, but it still raises a number of legal and institutional concerns, which need to be addressed. the commission reiterates its commitment for constructive engagement in trilateral discussions in order to clarify all remaining points of concern before being able to give its agreement. we hope that progress can be made soon on this politically sensitive but, as this debate shows, very important file.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these debates are important for our interinstitutional relationship. this is not an easy subject, it has been with us for many years and it is therefore important to have a debate on an open and frank basis, as we have had here today, which makes it possible to clarify the positions of the three institutions on such an important subject. we all know as democrats how important parliamentary scrutiny is. but the proposal we have on the table is not acceptable to the council at this time. as i said at the beginning, i would like to reaffirm the council's willingness and commitment to dialogue with the european parliament. we believe it is in our common interest to have clear and up-to-date rules governing the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry so that all those involved know exactly what their rights and obligations are. that is the message i have conveyed today in a spirit of loyal cooperation to the rapporteur, mr domènec ruiz devesa, to whom i am very grateful.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the question for oral answer to the commission on climate change resilient fisheries and aquaculture in the eu tabled by pierre karleskind, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000034/2021 - b9-0022/21) (2021/2699 ((rsp)).
author. madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on fisheries, mr pierre karleskind, for giving me the opportunity to introduce this important debate on the oral question on fisheries and aquaculture and resilience to climate change. on 24 february 2021, the commission adopted the communication entitled 'building a climate resilient europe - the eu's new climate change adaptation strategy', which sets out how the european union can adapt to unavoidable impacts and become resilient by 2050. adaptation measures are crucial to address the effects of a changing climate by building resilient societies capable of minimising adverse effects. the strategy specifically underlines the need to promote adaptation measures in key vulnerable sectors such as fisheries and aquaculture. both sectors are vital to the livelihoods and cultural heritage of many coastal communities in the european union, particularly those in which small-scale coastal fishing plays an important role. as the average age in many of our european coastal communities is over 50, generational change and diversification of activities remain a challenge and the inevitable negative effects of climate change and job loss are a serious threat to them. in this context, we ask the commissioner and the european commission in the debate to answer the following questions: what measures will the commission propose to encourage the european union's fisheries and aquaculture sectors to be resilient to climate change? in particular, since this strategy does not provide for legally binding targets and objectives, what specific targets are envisaged to measure progress? how will the european commission address the issue of climate resilience in the context of its assessment of the functioning of the common fisheries policy? that is, the way in which the cfp takes climate change mitigation and adaptation into account. what concrete measures are envisaged to address, mitigate and counter the negative effects and likely job losses in sectors affected by climate change, such as european fisheries and aquaculture? what proposals will the commission put to the co-legislators to make these sectors more resilient? what further measures will the european commission also put forward to integrate considerations of climate resilience into resource management such as fisheries (managed jointly with other partners, not just by the european union) or the protection of biodiversity in areas outside our national jurisdictions? finally, how will the european commission work with regional fisheries management organisations in this respect to promote the necessary resilience of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors? i would like to say to you, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that the fisheries and aquaculture sectors need a greater boost than the common fisheries policy can give them. we hope that this debate will be constructive, especially for these sectors.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, let me thank the committee on fisheries and the author, ms aguilera, for having tabled this oral question and for the opportunity to discuss this important matter during this session. one of the main priorities of this commission is addressing the global challenge of climate change and its consequences for our ecosystems. while the eu does everything within its power to mitigate climate change, notably through the objective of becoming carbon neutral by 2050 under the european green deal, we must also get ready to face the unavoidable impacts of climate change. this means we must adapt to the numerous devastating effects of climate change, mitigate the consequences and build our resilience. eu action to foster climate resilience through climate adaptation must involve all parts of our society and our economy. achieving climate resilience in a just and fair way is essential so that the benefits of climate adaptation are widely and equitably shared and nobody is left behind. this is true for any sector of our economy and society – fisheries and aquaculture included. therefore, the new eu strategy on adaptation to climate change, which the commission adopted back in february, foresees specific measures to increase the resilience of our fishing sector. more precisely, this new strategy follows up on three scientific assumptions established by the intergovernmental panel on climate change in its special report on the ocean in a changing climate of 2019. first, over the 21st century, oceans are expected to reach an unprecedented temperature increase, further acidification, as well as oxygen decline and decreasing primary production. second, starting sea—level rise is also an increasing worry for coastal areas, which are home to 40% of the eu population. third, marine protected areas build ocean resilience. more concretely, the tools already available under the common fisheries policy are essential to improve ecosystem resilience in relation to climate change, in particular by reducing fishing pressure and effectively governing the eu fleets. moreover, the new eu climate adaptation strategy foresees that the commission will, in its report of 2022 on the functioning of the common fisheries policy, assess how this policy caters for climate change adaptation, in particular in view of the large—scale changes in marine ecosystems. let me stress, however, that the purpose of this report is not to prepare the ground for legislative reform of our fisheries policy. as for the aquaculture sector, the recent commission communication on strategic guidelines for eu aquaculture, adopted by the commission only one month ago, foresees developing dedicated sectoral adaptation strategies. the ongoing review of the marine strategy framework directive will also look into the climate aspects in relation to the protection of the marine environment, which both fisheries and aquaculture are part of, and the upcoming action plan to conserve fisheries resources and protect marine ecosystems will also exploit the synergies between the fisheries and environmental and climate policies. the new climate adaptation strategy also foresees that the eu promote the establishment of marine protected areas internationally, thereby building on the targets of the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030. as you know, under the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030, the eu committed to the protection of 30% of eu seas, of which 10% are strictly protected. in addition, the new nature restoration law announced by the biodiversity strategy will aim to restore marine and coastal ecosystems in order to achieve good environmental status of eu seas, boosting climate—related services rendered by marine ecosystems. meeting the targets at eu level will also raise the credibility of the eu to push for more decisive action against climate change internationally. in fact, at international level, the new eu climate adaptation strategy foresees that the eu will integrate climate considerations in the current negotiations on the protection of biodiversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction under the un convention on the law of the sea. the eu will also engage with regional fisheries management organisations to promote climate adaptation and new marine protected areas. let me also highlight the entry into force later this month of the important agreement to prevent unregulated high seas fisheries in the central arctic ocean. finally, it is important to mention that climate adaptation in relation to oceans is also addressed at the next united nations climate change conference. a dialogue on ocean and climate change took place for the first time in december 2020 at the climate change conference cop25, and we will also continue to engage constructively on this front at the upcoming cop26. before closing, i would just like to stress that the new european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund is also a key contributor to our green deal objectives. it supports low—impact and sustainable fishing and aquaculture, as well as actions that contribute to the good environmental status of the marine environment. the commission is determined to use all tools at its disposal, domestically and internationally, to build climate—resilient fisheries and aquaculture sectors. the commission looks forward to further engaging with you, the parliament, on this topic, which will be at the forefront of our fisheries policy in the years to come.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, what better day than world oceans day to reaffirm that fisheries and aquaculture are the best option to fight climate change. no one should doubt our commitment to the objectives of the paris agreement on climate change, while at the same time we are committed to job creation and sustainable growth, so that food production is not threatened. but that is precisely why we cannot accept any excuse for restricting fishing or making ever stricter legislation for this sector. the commission is proposing to close 30% of the oceans under the pretext of protecting biodiversity at a time of particular difficulty for the sector. the creation of new marine protected areas is virtually the only tool explicitly envisaged in the commission's document on a new european union strategy for adaptation to climate change. and marine protected areas are not the panacea, nor should they be an object per se. the aim should be to maintain and restore biological diversity. we must not forget that the fisheries and aquaculture sector is the victim of climate change, not the source. this is precisely why one of the priorities of the new emff should be to support innovation and investment in selective low-carbon, climate-sensitive and low-impact fishing practices and techniques. because climate change affects fisheries all over the world and because fighting climate change is everyone's job. it should not always be the same 'eu operators' who pay the bill for those who do not act responsibly and collectively. the weather changes fast. legislation and tools need to be flexible and dynamic to respond and adapt to these changes. and fishermen and aquaculture producers must be at the centre of management. climate change is already here. it is a reality. so we must act now or we will be late, as we have been so often.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, make no mistake about it: our fishers, coastal communities and marine ecosystems have already been experiencing the impact of climate change and global warming for many years now. unfortunately, the pain caused by climate change is not shared equitably. across the globe, whether it’s in west africa, where fish stocks increasingly move north for colder waters, or we see atlantic mackerel distribution shifting dramatically northwards as they seek colder waters. in ireland, the iconic atlantic salmon could disappear entirely from our shores in the coming years because of climate change. climate change is affecting our ability to sustainably manage stocks and guarantee fair winds and following seas for all fishers equally. we already have many tools to ensure the sustainability and fairness of our fisheries, yet the eu and its member states fail to use them effectively on an annual basis. today, my colleagues and i from the committee on fisheries are here to call on the commission and member states to take action to secure sustainability and fairness for all our fishers. we need transparency in quota negotiations; we need to bring stocks above maximum sustainable yield, as promised years ago; we need to provide incentives for sustainable fishing, and we urgently need to implement effective marine-protected areas to protect marine habitats and allow fish stocks to recover.
madam president, at a time when worldwide ransomware incidents have, according to the fbi, tripled over the past year, making tens of millions of victims on this continent – just look at the emotet hackers that have been apprehended – and at a time when ransomware gangs are increasingly going after critical infrastructure – look at ireland – and also at a time when ransomware criminals are beginning to match the skills, technology and capabilities of state hackers, this parliament is working on the best cybersecurity legislation this continent has ever seen, and it will be very ambitious. but as we are debating the most effective measures against ransomware, technically the most effective measure is also the most cynical. probably, we should all attach a russian keyboard to our computers. i’m deadly serious. close reading of malware reports, which is my night-time hobby, shows that oftentimes the malware first checks whether a russian keyboard is present, and then it decides whether to penetrate and hack the rest of the network. this is the technical affirmation of that which police forces have been telling us: many gangs operate under the tacit approval of the russian state, as long as they don’t attack russian citizens. and the political conclusion must be that ransomware is not just a technical problem solved by the directive on security of network and information systems (nis 2 directive); it is also a foreign policy problem. we have to hold russia accountable for offering safe havens to ransomware criminals, which is totally unacceptable. in the end, i argue that cybersecurity should be a chefsache. and i urge the commission and council that this safe haven problem should be a chefsache for them as well.
madam president, i listened carefully to the previous speaker’s comments, and it may well be that some nation states are complicit in the attack on our citizens by cybercriminals. these attacks are a plague on society. we’ve seen more of them in recent months, and i have no doubt that this will continue. we’ve seen patients blackmailed for their medical information in finland, hospital it systems in france attacked, and in my own home country of ireland, the irish health system was reduced to a 1970s level of functioning by ransomware attacks in recent weeks. so i welcome the commission’s strategy on cybersecurity, but we do need laws that match the rapid pace at which the digital world is developing, and member states do need to coordinate their cybersecurity plans and responses. we need to protect our power grids, our water, our wastewater systems from cyberattacks. we’ve seen the us gas pipeline cyberattack. so we need to take this seriously. we need joined-up thinking. there are physical threats, there are political threats and there are now cyberthreats. we need to treat them with the urgency that they deserve.
madam president, 27 days ago, there was a massive cyberattack on the health service in ireland. this was not a malicious attack by some few individuals, but it was done with the tacit approval of russia. and let us be very clear as well, it was not just an attack on some abstract computer system. this was an attack on citizens, an attack on european citizens. healthcare had to be cancelled in many cases. it could have even cost lives in terms of delayed diagnostics or cancellations of operations. so this is a significant issue that has to be addressed. and we do need to ensure that it is coordinated at european level. i do welcome the fact that there is a cybersecurity strategy, but we have to ensure that there are additional resources by member states and by the commission itself to ensure that we can coordinate and hold rogue elements in countries outside of the european union to account if they continue to facilitate the undermining of institutions, of facilities, of services in the european union. and those countries must be held to account. and i include russia in that.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner dalli, truly disturbing figures that you quote. colleagues, politics needs women. if we are to truly move beyond our unfinished democracies, we need a critical mass of women in politics. in the european parliament we have achieved close to parity, with women accounting for over 40% of meps. we are a role model for others around the world and, in my view, for the way in which politics is conducted here. however, this is not universal. we know that, while women are heavily involved in community groups and ngos making a substantial difference and a sizable contribution at grassroots level, women are often hesitant about entering politics. they don’t like what sometimes passes for politics – aggressive, adversarial and populist. also, women in politics experience physical intimidation and sexual harassment online and offline, as we’ve heard. like so many other female politicians, i’ve had a range of experiences in my political career that were deeply unpleasant and unacceptable: an attack on a car i was travelling in, physical intimidation and a stream of untruths about my political work that have only increased as the online world has emerged and further developed. every female politician has similar stories. politics has always had many challenges but, with the development of the online world, we’ve seen this multiply hugely, and people say why would i bring that upon myself? so it’s imperative for democracy that we deal with these challenges. we must offer support and mentoring. we must interrupt and face down the populist rhetoric. we must challenge the stereotyping of complex political decisions and leave room for nuance and complexity. high-quality journalism is essential. my work on the committee on disinformation has reinforced my views on that. journalism that can view political discourse through the arc of time, its complexity, and not through the need for clicks: this needs adequate funding. our democracy remains unfinished. if we are to achieve a critical mass of women, we must take action today and take on the bullies, interrupt them legislatively and through other means. women and our democracy deserve and need this.
madam president, let us stick to the wording of the resolution, which is concise, concise, but also balanced. firstly, morocco is a neighbour and strategic partner of the european union and we value cooperation based on mutual respect in the field of terrorism, security, trade and immigration. secondly, what happened in ceuta on 17 may was not a migration crisis, it was a situation with political and diplomatic components at an external border of the european union, the only land border with africa along with melilla, which requires a unified response from the whole of the european union, especially in relation to the protection of minors, whose rights and best interests must prevail on both sides of the border. and thirdly, the resolution supports the efforts of the authorities of ceuta and the spanish authorities in their response. but above all, it is committed to a resumption of diplomatic cooperation based on international humanitarian law, the right to the protection of minors, the united nations convention on the rights of the child and the responsible management of the external borders, including this one, the only land border with africa, together with melilla, of the entire european union.
madam president, the situation in ceuta shouldn’t be ignored, and we have to debate the topic. this shows us that the eu migration policy is still not meeting the challenges ahead of us. but instead of confrontation, we have to work on how to strengthen the cooperation. bilateral disagreements between both partners should be addressed through diplomatic dialogue. morocco, like qatar, the maghreb and sub-saharan africa is under increasing pressure, particularly concerning minor children, and the authorities have always been clear that enhanced cooperation in combating illegal migration is needed. this was proved a few days ago when the country made a proposal for enhanced cooperation, which has been very positively welcomed by the european commission. our strategic partnership should not be undermined. we need to calm the situation by resuming bilateral dialogue.
madam president, morocco is and must remain a preferred partner of the european union, but also a loyal partner. and loyal partners do not open the gates of their border fence to allow thousands of migrants to cross the border with an uncertain destination. the loyal partners do not allow, much less encourage, thousands of minors to come to spain through europe's southern border. loyal partners do not threaten, do not use the pain and tragedy of illegal immigration as retaliation for certain actions, however nefarious they may understand to have been the actions of a particular government. we are talking about people, human lives. and we cannot accept any other way than diplomacy. in the canary islands we know this well, and that is why i can tell you that we have to deal with issues such as illegal immigration and unaccompanied minors together. one-sided actions lead to nothing good. morocco is and must remain a friend and preferred partner. but that cannot prevent us from rejecting what happened in ceuta and from remembering that the territorial integrity of each member state is non-negotiable.
madam president, the crisis we have experienced in ceuta can be turned into an opportunity if we take advantage of some of the lessons it has left us. firstly, morocco's behaviour in this crisis is not that of a strategic partner, but it is more useful to seek solutions than to exchange reproaches. the whole of the union is concerned by this situation. morocco does not offer attractive prospects to its youth. bad business for any country. the european-moroccan partnership, which is a principle that applies to all of africa, must be focused on changing this situation. nobody leaves their home if they have a future there. the second is that the role of local and regional authorities in determining immigration policies must be taken seriously at once, because they are the ones who attend, provide services and manage the integration process. ceuta and the canary islands are examples of the dysfunction that results from marginalizing this level of governance at the tables where these policies are decided. the third is that an objective system of sharing the responsibility for hosting must be established at european level. the proposal for ceuta was based on the share initiative, which the basque government has been working on for some time with dozens of european regions. humanitarian corridors and reception quotas would prevent many crises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although the vice-president of the commission, margaritis schinas, may have mentioned blackmail in the case of the migrants in ceuta, any comparison with the iron fist of sultan erdoğan would be null and void. not only is turkey bound to control migrants by a 2016 agreement, backed by the exorbitant sum of €6 billion, but in this case the numbers speak for themselves. as of may, 5,600 of the approximately 8,000 moroccan migrants had already been returned from spain. moreover, is it not disconcerting that it is the responsibility of the king of morocco himself to publicly demand the repatriation of the persons concerned and to deplore the complexity of the procedures in force? in the case in point, it was reported in the press that certain spanish authorities had refused to hand over miners to the moroccan auxiliary forces on the pretext of alleged brutality. the fact that the spanish government has not yet taken action on the issue of immigration is a fact which, if confirmed, would illustrate the double narrative of the socialist government in madrid, which has been known for its immigration-oriented sensibilities. if there is a lesson to be learned from this sad episode, it is that the european union is incompetent in migration matters. it is also necessary to denounce any absurd interference, in the wake of the us decision on western sahara, in the polisario front issue, even though there are still concerns about the management of european humanitarian aid in the tindouf refugee camps under the effective control of this organization.
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union has a long-standing and clear position on human rights, which are at the heart of our action and an essential component of our internal and external policies. special attention is drawn to the most vulnerable groups and, in particular, to children. the eu has a long-standing partnership with morocco, one of our closest neighbours and a key ally in many strategic fields. for many years already, the eu and morocco have had excellent cooperation on migration, leading to recognised results, particularly in recent years. we fully share the many concerns expressed about the events of three weeks ago in ceuta, which led to an unprecedented number of people, including many children, trying to cross the spanish—moroccan border, risking their lives at sea. the eu publicly expressed its position on this at several levels, and i take this opportunity to reiterate our full solidarity with spain with regard to their efforts to address the challenges of irregular migration. we therefore remain confident that similar situations will not happen again and that a close cooperation with morocco, respectful of human rights and shared commitments and values, will be preserved. effective responses to the challenges represented by migration flows will require further dialogue with morocco as a country of transit, origin and destination. in this spirit, and in the name of our strong relationship, we consider that it is paramount to reinforce our cooperation in search of common solutions. our cooperation is based on dialogue, responsibility, mutual trust and respect, and aimed at providing concrete solutions, which include addressing together the socio-economic root causes of migration in the wider perspective of eu—africa migration cooperation. in this context, the eu welcomes the decision to facilitate the re—entry of unaccompanied and duly identified moroccan minors, which morocco officially announced a few days ago. we hope that this decision can be implemented effectively soon, ensuring the best interests of the child. this crisis also reveals the need to turn to the future and to a fresh start in european migration policies. the new pact on migration and asylum gives us this chance, proposing mutually beneficial partnerships with third countries. the eu values its close partnership with morocco and is fully committed to cooperating in the interest of our mutual prosperity and security and to jointly address common challenges. the eu will also use this privileged partnership to continue addressing migration, including, in particular, respect for migrants’ human rights. we will do so by reinforcing our dialogue and concentration, confident that this will lead to better political and humanitarian results, and make sure that similar events do not happen again.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation in sri lanka, and in particular arrests under the anti-terrorism act (2021/2748 ((rsp)) * see minutes
the author. madam president, the european union debated this week in its plenary the application of conditionality in the event of a breach of the rule of law. if we're going to be tough on ourselves, we have to be tough on our partners, too. we cannot tolerate the fact that someone is imprisoned or even threatened with death on the basis of vague provisions of the anti-terrorism law. i personally see the situation in south asia as very important. sri lanka, the maldives, india are long-standing trading partners of the european union. however, the situation in sri lanka and other states is now just beginning to change dramatically and, let's say, maybe even worsen. we cannot tolerate for any longer period that journalists and activists or people from minorities are subjected to state-sponsored harassment and death threats or that they are repeatedly attacked in the street. we therefore want to send a clear message to our friends in sri lanka that the european union will never tell our partners what to do, but will try to advise them that the situation that is currently in sri lanka is not sustainable in the long term. if they want to have the european union as a partner, they must start doing something about this situation immediately.
author. – madam president, sri lanka has had a difficult past but we need to focus on the future. what’s happening right now under the prevention of terrorism act is extremely worrying. we’re seeing arbitrary detention and ahnaf jazeem, a 26-year-old poet and teacher, has been in prison for over a year now without any fair trial. we also see flagrant discrimination of the lgbtqi community under the current penal act. colleagues, this is unacceptable. if the eu wants to be consistent, the respect for human rights has to be a clear precondition for trade preferences. i therefore call on the sri lankan authorities to repeal the prevention of terrorism act and to focus on reconciliation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. commissioner, congratulations on your speech. there's an old polish saying that says that we often see the speck in another man's eye and we don't see the beam in our own. i have the impression that our european union is the opposite, that we often discuss the spear in the eye of one member state or another, and fail to see the beams in the eyes of the countries with which we work, which we help, whose economic development we support, including through investment. ceylon (sri lanka) is a country linked to the european union economically and in other ways. we remember that for many years in this house there was a sympathetic and important mp, nirj deva, who was born in ceylon. i think today we need to say very clearly beyond the political divisions that we demand respect for human rights in this country, and i'm glad we have this joint resolution.
author. madam president, after such a short time of such a bloody civil war the people of sri lanka deserve much better. rajapaksa's victory in the 2019 elections and the formation of his government has resulted in serious constitutional changes, amendments to the criminal code and the instrumentalization of the anti-terrorism law for political and censorship purposes. that's why the international community is coming together to react to the arbitrary detention of activists, poets, journalists, teachers, in short, of all those who want to have an independent and free voice. and that is also why we must unite against attacks on the lgbti+ community and that is also why we are presenting this resolution. we call on the sri lankan government to abandon the anti-terrorism law which is being exploited and we call on the sri lankan government to comply with international law.
author. madam president, how can we support a resolution on counter-terrorism in sri lanka that seems to almost avoid the easter attacks by islamists against the christian minority, in which some 260 people were killed in 2019, attacks that were subsequently cleared by the head of the islamic state at the time? first of all, it should be noted that in sri lanka, as elsewhere, the term 'anti-terrorism legislation' means 'exceptional measures'. this is of course in no way a justification for the violation of human dignity, but we also recognize sri lanka's commitments against torture and attempts to revise its 1979 anti-terrorism legislation. there is no shortage of reasons for concern for these island states. in addition to fundamental rights and governance, china's growing grip on its new silk road is also a concern. all these elements must be taken into account in their fairness in an assessment of the eu's relations with this country, without bias or double standards.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the south asian island of sri lanka, fondly referred to as the pearl of the indian ocean, has witnessed a concerning escalation of discrimination against, and violence towards, muslims and minority groups in recent years. since the easter bombings in 2019, the prevention of terrorism act (pta) has been accepted as a necessary tool to manage the threat of terrorism. however, in its application, it has broadly affected people who identify as muslim. the pta provides the police with powers to search, arrest and detain suspects causing harm and suffering to those whom the government of the day perceive to be a threat. take for example the case of ahnaf jazeem, a 26-year-old poetry teacher who was arrested simply for publishing poetry, which the authorities claimed promotes extremism. jazeem has now been detained for a year without charge. this is just one of the countless arbitrary detentions permitted under the pta. this counter-terrorism legislation must be brought in line with international standards without delay, otherwise we must review trade preferences for sri lanka.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, does the prevention of terrorism act really keep us safe? how many innocent people are we willing to sacrifice on the altar of often only perceived security? and most importantly, what makes us feel safer? arbitrary arrests or effective transparency and accountability of the actions of national authorities? these are the questions that ermiza tegal and amra ismail, two human rights lawyers in sri lanka, posed to civil society and the national authorities on may 25th from the columns of "groundviews", one of the few remaining independent newspapers in the country. these questions should strike the conscience of everyone who believes in the essential nature of human rights and individual freedoms, and of us, ladies and gentlemen, who are called upon to defend and strengthen these values in europe and the world. we cannot continue to look the other way while an entire people is constantly at risk of being crushed, squashed in the eye of a hellish and fallacious judicial machine. we call for immediate and concrete action by the colombo government to put an end to this arbitrary and often politicized regime of arrests which has oppressed sri lanka for over 40 years.
member of the commission. – madam president, the eu enjoys and values the broad and multifaceted relationship it has developed with sri lanka over the past decades. the eu’s approach towards that country has always been underpinned by full respect for values and international standards, stressing the importance of upholding human rights, inclusion and reconciliation. the eu much regretted sri lanka’s withdrawal from un human rights council resolution 30/1 without any real domestic measures to confirm that the government is taking reconciliation seriously, and its refusal to co—sponsor the new resolution 46/1 adopted by the council in march. parliament’s resolution points to a number of worrying developments, and the eu clearly noted in the human rights council in march that reports by, notably, the un high commissioner for human rights, indicated trends towards a deteriorating human rights situation, including those of the lgbtiq community. parliament rightly emphasises that security forces continue to apply the prevention of terrorism act (pta), which deprives detainees of due process rights, authorises executive—sanctioned detention without charge and has facilitated the use of torture. amending the pta to bring it in line with international standards was a key commitment of sri lanka in the run—up to its readmission to the generalised scheme of preferences in 2017. the law is not in line with the conventions that sri lanka has to implement under the gsp+. we have raised the issue with the new authorities and they confirmed they are intent on revisiting the provisions of the pta with a view to making the appropriate amendments. so far, however, there has been no progress and we have seen that on 9 march the scope of the act was broadened to allow for two years of detention without trial for those suspected of causing religious, racial or communal disharmony. the issue will remain at the heart of our engagement with sri lanka in the framework of the gsp+ monitoring. we will continue our open and critical engagement with sri lanka, not only within the framework of the gsp+ monitoring, but also in our regular bilateral dialogue.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the classification of six german ngos as undesirable in russia and the detention of andrei pivovarov (2021/2749 ((rsp)) * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * see minutes
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. six years ago, in may 2015, the state duma passed the law that allows for the declaration of undesirable and prohibition of foreign and international organizations. putin had then put this law into effect. 30 foreign organisations have now been declared undesirable; you're being prosecuted. now three more german ngos are joining us. the two of them are actively involved in the bilateral discussion forum 'petersburg dialogue'. this bilateral forum is one of the few opportunities to promote understanding between civil society in germany and russia. why now, in time for the elections? how much fear must putin have of torpedoing even these modest opportunities for cooperation? how much fear is there that youth exchanges and joint voluntary services will promote mutual understanding? how great is the fear that these small organizations are endangering the so-called foundations of constitutional order and security of the russian federation? these are signs of fear. these are signs of the weakness of the putin system. these are not signs of sovereignty and of a willingness to cooperate. it was pathetic. the new duma and putin must quickly abolish this law.
author. – madam president, andrei pivovarov was detained under fabricated accusations on board a polish civilian airplane already taxiing on the tarmac of saint petersburg. except for german ngos, putin blacklisted institutions as important as iri, ndi, ned, our european eed, and also important media outlets like radio free europe and radio liberty. the best way to react would be to immediately stop construction of nord stream 2 and show due diligence and engagement both politically and in trade domain with the russian federation in accordance with un guidelines on business and human rights.
author. – madam president, open russia founder mikhail khodorkovsky is repeatedly on record advocating regime change in russia, including by force. before this parliament’s committee on foreign interference, to rapturous applause from meps, he warned of the foreign interference threat by russian ngos in germany and the need to curtail them. but when the russian authorities then move on his organisation, we’re told it’s the greatest violation of civil liberties in our lifetime. have you any idea how lunatic this is? of course, a vibrant civil society is important, and should be protected. but no european country is going to allow people to sit around and plot with hostile foreign powers to overthrow a government under the guise of civil society. so why would russia? i believe khodorkovsky’s human rights, like everybody else’s, should be protected. the laws in russia are becoming more repressive to civil society, but he wasn’t arrested ten days when we were moving a special session on this. meanwhile, julian assange has been denied his liberty for 10 years, and we say nothing. this isn’t about justice and human rights, it’s about instrumentalising them. let’s call off the talks, dial down the rhetoric, and engage properly with our russian colleagues diplomatically to resolve differences.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr matić, for his work on this report. i know the efforts he put in and the attempts to reach a consensus. this report has been the subject of much debate and indeed i would say intense lobbying. in ireland we have been debating these issues for over 40 years, most recently in 2018 when ireland voted to repeal the eighth amendment by popular vote. previously we were seen by some as pariahs of the international community, criticised for our inability to stand up for women’s rights. today elements of that debate rage in ireland. the ownership and governance of our new national maternity hospital is at the centre of a debate to finally end the church’s influence on healthcare. irish women, and indeed women across europe, must have separation of church and state on these healthcare issues. if we want to reduce the number of abortions, sexuality education and contraception are crucial. contraception is also crucial for sexual and reproductive health and education informs and supports a healthy approach. my party has particular concerns regarding two aspects of this report. our epp resolution stresses that the right to freedom of conscience is inherent, and i regret that it is referred to as the so-called ‘conscience clause’. similarly, we have concerns about the subsidiarity principle as expressed. my core guiding principle is and remains the same: women’s rights are human rights, and i will continue my work on that principle and belief.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, thank you for the important work you are doing that you have outlined. the international conference on population and development (icpd) in nairobi in 2019 was a landmark moment, celebrating 25 years since the initial icpd in cairo. it highlighted how far we have come, but we have much to do. i believe that the ambitions highlighted during the conference are not only achievable, but imperative. we need strong political commitment to make it a reality. women’s rights are at the centre of development policy, and achieving gender equality will have a ripple effect moving forward in other crucial areas, too, like healthcare, economic development and reducing poverty. we must act now. three quick points. the first is the need to tackle fgm, this horrific violence against women. secondly, we need male champions. it’s time to take the burden of gender equality off the shoulders of women and move forward on this shared goal together. finally, i want to express my outrage at the alternative statement that was issued at the end of the summit by some countries, including the us, poland and hungary. opposing reproductive rights only forces women to make harder decisions, one that puts their lives in danger. it doesn’t eradicate the problem. those countries should be ashamed of their statement. and i want to really applaud the eu delegation for taking action and standing up in opposition to that text in nairobi. that was an important statement.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on our european climate law. finally, because without legally enforceable objectives, we're not going to make any progress. so yes, this climate bill is a major step forward in stopping global warming. and in that sense, commissioner timmermans, the signal of those countless protesters during the climate marches has been heard... but no, this will not be enough to stop global warming. the recent ipcc report is telling. the current pledges are not enough, and the consequences will be disastrous. so we have to go all out for a 65 percent reduction of those emissions by 2030, instead of doing creative math, where we're still dipping below 55 percent. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we greens are voting against this law, as a clear signal that things can and should be improved. the science is already right, now the world leaders.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! the new climate law will force changes in many areas of socio-economic life. unfortunately, the effects of this law have not been demonstrated to date. so how much will it reduce the competitiveness of the european economy? you have to ask. how much will energy poverty increase? even the richest economies in the member states are afraid of economic collapse, of emissions flight, of industry moving out of the union. will a just transformation be just in name? commissioner timmermans said that climate change will hurt, especially the countries of central and eastern europe, especially poland, which has a coal-based energy mix. but mrs. ursula von der leyen said she couldn't leave anyone behind. so look at the just transformation fund, which is so small, so embarrassingly poor, that it shows that it's just empty words.
madam president, 55% emissions, net. the parliament asked for a 60% reduction target for 2030. after the negotiations with the council, we’ve gone down to a 55% target, but it’s not even a 55% absolute reduction target, it’s a net target. we’ve gone and created a new accounting trick to make it sound like we’re doing our bit, but the truth is, it’s a farce designed to confuse. does the eu give a damn about the paris agreement, which is supposed to be based on principles of equity? where is the fairness? the eu’s gdp is over eur 13 trillion. we have been fleecing the global south now for centuries and now we have a 2030 climate target that’s not even close to our fair share of the responsibility for climate catastrophe. in fact, this climate law lets us continue eating into the planetary space of the global south and lets us forget how much of it we have already stolen from them. i’m voting against.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. yes, it's good that we finally have a legal basis for achieving climate neutrality. but we all know that the ambitious goals we are being asked to adopt here today are not on the path to meeting our commitments under the paris climate agreement. we know from science that these co2 reduction targets are way too low. and it is not helping that conservative groups, but also liberals and social democrats in all different policy areas are doing their best to reduce climate targets. the common agricultural policy is facing a total failure to create a climate-neutral agriculture. the taxonomy is promoting the use of gas, which is just as much a fossil fuel, or the atom, which in some other way endangers our lives as citizens. the point is to push forward with the utmost ambition to restructure our economy and not to negotiate daily the objectives in the spirit of the old fossil fuel industry lobbies. this is not what redirection looks like. we need more ambition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is an undeniable reality, and it is forcing policy makers to act now. the ambitious targets for achieving climate neutrality by 2050 require us to ensure that all economic sectors are engaged in this battle, but also that they experience a smooth transition. they must retain the capacity to continue to provide goods and services to the citizens of the european union. at the same time, some sectors, such as forestry and agriculture, need to be seen as part of the solutions to achieve the targets and to preserve biodiversity. without a doubt, farmers need to be supported and paid for their extra efforts, because we cannot ask them to do more with less money. last but not least, i would point out that without substantial support, agricultural production will be located in other parts of the world, which would of course greatly weaken our efforts in this area. european consumers must continue to have access to quality food at reasonable prices, and this can only be provided by european farmers. i would also like to highlight the social implications of this law, especially in mining areas. here, vocational retraining must be supported by effective policies so that citizens can continue to live a decent life in their own regions.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, we have a european climate law. ten years ago, commissioner, that would have been unthinkable. but today is the day, and we're voting on it. a unicum, making europe the first major power to enact binding legislation to be climate neutral by 2050. and we've set the bar ambitiously, but realistically high. and we have to get past that now. with full speed, full conviction and with the right investments, but not recklessly or recklessly. it must not be limited to the most beautiful objectives. what is needed above all are feasible, affordable and stimulating measures, measures that ensure sustainable economic growth and jobs. and that is why we must, first of all, press on now, not delay, and take the whip out, and bring the member states into this story, so that europe can be an example to the rest of the world and we can make this a success story together.
madam president, the climate is changing. we need to act. when i was born, the level of carbon dioxide in the earth’s atmosphere was around 320 parts per million. it has now risen to almost 420. that’s a 30% increase in my lifetime. we must be brave and ambitious in our actions. europe’s emissions are higher than most, and we have a moral responsibility to be ambitious in our response. and as we prepare for cop26 in glasgow this autumn, we need to go further and faster to tackle the climate and biodiversity crisis. this summer new ipcc reports come out. we’re hoping for the best but we must prepare for the worst. my government is proposing significant reductions in emissions. europe must match this. the greens want to see more support for greater climate action. we must lead by example.
madam president, i very much welcome this european climate law. it places obligations on us. it ensures that we now have clear targets and commitments. but what we must do now is use the science, use the innovation and the creativity of humankind to ensure that we can bring technologies and funding and policies in place, to ensure that we play our part as individuals and collectively as member states, in ensuring that we address the climate crisis that’s in our midst. we cannot any longer deny that there are significant challenges and problems across the entire planet: displacement of people, desertification and other huge changes in how we live and the upheavals of various countries in terms of the problems of climate change itself. so now is a time to embrace this concept of ensuring that we place clear legal obligations on member states and ensure that we play our part collectively and internationally as well. i also hope that the european union plays a lead role internationally as well in encouraging other countries and other entities to comply with our obligations to ensure that humans survive.
madam president, firstly i’d like to thank the co—rapporteurs and the shadows for all of their cooperation on this file. the transition to a climate—neutral economy presents massive opportunities to transform our societies and economies. we can look forward to a world where we no longer have to rely on fossil fuels and where we have a fully circular economy. we cannot underestimate the enormous challenges and the cost, and we cannot forget the huge uncertainty that faces communities, workers and families. that is why we need strong just transition funding programmes to support regions and communities who are at the forefront of the climate transition. no one should be left behind in the climate transition, and with over eur 100 billion in potential funding we now have a huge job to do to implement these programmes quickly and efficiently. this must be an inclusive process. just transition plans must be prepared in strong cooperation with local authorities, civic society, community groups and all other relevant stakeholders. i encourage all public authorities to adopt a sound, gender—budgeting approach to this funding. after all, this is about a just transition, and the transition needs to be just between men and women. the last thing i would say is that the just transition is not over. we have a long way to go in this climate transition. if we want to truly support those regions most affected, we must come back to the table with more funding further down the line.
mr president, while some sense of normality is resuming in our economies and societies, we cannot forget that many businesses all over europe are still under severe strain. the european investment bank (eib) has been an important support and lifeline throughout the crisis with its eur 46 billion-worth of covid—19 funding projects, and 425 000 small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) have benefited. that is a valuable contribution. but this contribution must translate into more financial resources to enable the eib not only to address the post-pandemic recovery, but also to drive forward key eu priorities: as has been said, the green deal, a europe fit for the digital age and an equal and fairer europe. my country, ireland, has benefited from eur 19 billion-worth of financing from the eib since the start of its operations, providing crucial support for our transport infrastructure and renewable energy. this has helped transform our economy, but given the enormous environmental and post-pandemic challenges we now face, public and private investment has never been more important. we need a strong and well financed eu bank to do this.
in writing. – the presidency of the council of european union is held by the member states that rotate the presidency every six months and determine long-term objectives of the european union. slovenia took over the rotating presidency in july and strive to facilitate the eu’s recovery and reinforce its resilience, reflect on the future of europe, strengthen the rule of law and european values, and increase security and stability in the european neighbourhood. together, we are still facing the challenges related to the covid-19 pandemic, but we should be prepared to leave the pandemic behind and achieve our long-term objectives. next generation eu will help us achieve digital and environmental transformation and ensure economic recovery. for the transformations to be successful and our systems resilient, we also need to invest into training and education. apart from the recovery, we should not ignore the challenges related to international stability and see slovenian presidency as the opportunity to strengthen our relationships in western balkans. it is in our interest to strengthen the rule of law and ensure democratic development in the european neighbourhood.
in writing. you are a guarded scum janshara! slovenia has taken over the rotating presidency of the european union and the slovenian programme is being evaluated today by the european parliament's plenary session. it is certainly piquant that a political adventurer like prime minister janez janša has been leading the european community for six months, who openly considers orbán as one of the icons of illiberal, anti-eu warfare and whose background is connected by a thousand dark threads to the fidesz oligarchy network. it is particularly interesting that the slovenian presidency will, in its own programme, give high priority to the core values of the european union, including the rule of law, but will also give equal priority to media pluralism, for example. all this would be credible if the slovenian prime minister - following orban's recipe - did not push the fake-news industry to the top, do not beat down his political opponents by any means possible, do not undermine the public interest and do not attack members of the independent judiciary. we expect a lot from the slovenian eu presidency, but we hope for little. janez janša's political mentor tells us that it's not what he says that we should pay attention to, but what he does. i will personally be closely following the slovenian presidency's approach to the european health union, which i have initiated and partly worked out, and which has been welcomed so far. the question is what will remain of the populist rhetoric when words have to be put into action. so you careful scum, take janshara!
in writing. under the theme 'together, resilient, europe', the slovenian presidency of the council of the european union is tasked with building on the progress made by the portuguese presidency and continuing the implementation in the field of the recovery programmes and the multiannual financing programme, the building of a european health union and the continuation of the work of the conference on the future of europe. the slovenian presidency, however, was far from having an auspicious start. at a time when the union is establishing a clear and umbilical link between the member states' embrace of the shared values of the rule of law and their ability to access the solidarity-based financial resources provided by the union, the purpose of the new presidency to promote a culture of the rule of law across the eu through inclusive debate and allowing member states to learn from each other's experience is interesting. however, the reference to respect for national constitutional systems and traditions is, in the current political situation in slovenia and in the context of developments in other countries, such as hungary and poland, a threat to the rule of law. the shared founding values of the european union are not negotiable.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: - the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, on the connecting europe facility (06115/2/2021 c9-0214/2021 2018/0228 ((cod)) (rapporteurs: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. recommendation for the second reading of the committee on transport and tourism, on the rationalisation of measures to advance the completion of the trans-european transport network (10537/ the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. ( the rapporteur: dominique riquet (a9-0223/2021), and the report by izaskun bilbao barandica, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on railway safety and signalling: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, colleagues and co-rapporteurs, thank you all for your good cooperation in the adoption of this important regulation. we have many years of negotiations behind us and i am very pleased that we can now this week finally confirm this europe of networks regulation, which will fund over eur 30 billion over the next seven years for important crossborder infrastructure projects in the fields of transport and energy and digitalisation. it is of the utmost importance for europe's competitiveness and the functioning of the internal market that we have a modern, fast infrastructure that links the european internal market and strengthens the capacity of our industry and societies. the most important sectors for the european union in the coming years will be the green agenda and the acceleration of digitalisation, i.e. europe's aim of becoming climate neutral by 2050. of course, this means really big reforms and investments for both industry and society. modern, efficient infrastructure is key here, as is the acceleration of digitalisation. if we want our industry and society to be competitive and, on the other hand, all businesses and citizens to be able to take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation, this means that investment in this area is needed throughout europe. the commission has estimated that as much as eur 280 billion per year would now be needed to achieve the objectives of the green development programme, and the networks europe instrument and the added value it brings can help to bring these investments to life. the very big innovation of course for this programme is that now at least 60% of all investment will be directed towards infrastructure that will specifically reduce emissions in the future, so this is very strongly linked to achieving climate objectives. energy will be a key element in the coming season. it is important that we are able to link up the european energy networks, that we have energy flowing from one member state to another and that no country is dependent on a single source of energy. we have identified the main projects for the transeuropean energy networks, but now, as a new element, this programme also funds crossborder renewable energy projects. that's the new element here. similarly, in the field of digitalisation, the programme will finance a fast, modern network throughout europe. the specific focus will be on 5g corridors and high-speed connections required by various supercomputers, as well as cross-border cable connections. hundreds of millions of euros of investment are also needed in this area in the coming years to keep europe competitive in the digital economy. my colleagues on the transport committee will be giving more details on this, but i am particularly pleased that rail investment is now a major priority, because it will also contribute to the rapid and safe transport across europe and, of course, to the achievement of the climate objectives. sustainable transport solutions across europe and their support play a very important role in this. in the coming years, a particular focus will be on achieving synergies, i.e. we will aim to make it possible, now that europe is investing in new, modern and fast infrastructure, to link transport networks, digital networks and energy networks even more closely, including by having alternative fuel distribution networks along all major transport corridors and very fast digital connections along all major transport corridors. this will help us to have an efficient, functioning and modern internal market, which will help our companies and industry to compete internationally, but on the other hand it will also help europe to be able to achieve the very ambitious climate targets we have set for the future. it must also be said that while we can now be pleased that many years of negotiation have been completed and that we have reached agreement with the council and parliament on the positions, the budget reached here - over eur 30 billion - is certainly a significant budget, but parliament would have considered it important that we had invested even more in digital networks, even more in transport infrastructure as well as in energy infrastructure. these are really key issues for european competitiveness and it is regrettable that the council was not prepared to increase funding for the connecting europe facility any further. it is of course desirable that, now that the member states have benefited from a very substantial recovery fund, they should also now direct funds towards infrastructure projects which generate genuine european added value and are cross-border projects, because it is quite clear that investment in infrastructure is necessary for the european economy, for its success and for its future competitiveness.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we are able to vote on this regulation today. i think very important, in my opinion, is the regulation that ultimately sets the union's transport policy apart from, of course, the digital and energy chapters. it's the second regulation on this. i would remind you that in 2011, the commission proposed 50 billion for this connecting europe facility. we didn't even manage to get 50 billion then. now we only have 33 billion, so if in 2011 the commission thought that 50 billion was needed, you realize that now this money, this budget, is not enough. let's hope it's spent efficiently. we have a slogan, "shift2rail", that we want to achieve by 2030. i think if we want to achieve it we have to have rail, we have to have rail, and at the moment, in my opinion, there is no rail in the european union, a rail system at the level required for the transfer from road and from road and from air to rail. the member states, as you can see in the budget, have, in my view, a parallel discourse. they want to decarbonise but at the same time they don't want to provide the budget for that. i remind you that without the budget, without the money, without the investment from the other european funds, we will not reach this target in 2030. on the other hand, i believe that, in addition to the efficient spending of money, there is also a need for european governance in this system, in this mode of transport. we need standardisation, we need interoperability and it has been seen that the way the railway is managed at the moment, you cannot get to this situation by rail. we want night trains, but you have to change locomotives, change drivers, you don't have harmonized regulations between member states. so there's a lot to be done. so i am advocating a european governance so that we can, firstly, harmonize all the rules of this mode of transport and, secondly, to redirect, direct investment where it is needed. and that is what i expect from the commission. i've submitted a pilot project to that effect. i don't know if i got the proper response from the commission. it seems that we are not, but i repeat, if we are to implement the slogans we have, we must have a european management. the epp group will vote in favour of this regulation. i thank my colleagues in parliament, the shadow rapporteurs, for their support. thank you, of course, to the co-rapporteurs, because we were a very close-knit team, and thank you to the european commission for helping in some situations very much.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, dear adina, ladies and gentlemen, our assembly will be voting on several texts during this plenary session, but two of them the mechanism for interconnection in europe and the ten-t are of prime importance for infrastructure, all the more so in the necessary context of our recovery. i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs, mrs virkkunen and mr marinescu, for their excellent work and collaboration, and all the non-existent rapporteurs and collaborators who contributed to the text of these two reports, for which i am also rapporteur. this is a fact that must be repeated again and again: whether in the field of transport, energy or digital, efficient infrastructure is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market, the strengthening of the union's social, economic and territorial cohesion, the emergence of our strategic autonomy and the achievement of the green deal. this is all the more so as our international competitors are investing heavily in their infrastructure: china has been doing so for 30 years and the united states recently decided to spend 1 000 billion dollars on their infrastructure. to meet its environmental ambitions and to remain competitive on the world stage, europe faces two major challenges. one is financial and budgetary, so to speak, in a constrained context where many member states have chosen operating budgets, often at the expense of public investment. this trend has been accentuated by the financial crises of 2008 and 2012 and will be further aggravated by the current health crisis. the second difficulty is regulatory, not budgetary. all the requirements legitimate: environmental, technical, civic, democratic requirements make applications and permits for major projects more complex, making them more uncertain and vulnerable. we are indeed setting - with enthusiasm, which i share - ambitious standards, necessary transitions and stringent restrictions, but they will require a considerable effort to adapt not only our behaviour but also the means required to transform our world. in this respect, each of these reports is a response to these financial and administrative handicaps in order to make our ambitions a reality. as regards the mechanism for interconnection in europe, which my two co-rapporteurs have spoken about extensively, i regret, of course, as do many others, that the budget of only 33 billion is still insufficient in relation to our needs. but beyond the allocation, it was also the governance of this fund that had to be preserved, since the previous erm supported major infrastructure projects and was decisive at european level. these projects would probably not have been possible for a number of them without our intervention. the criteria for allocating funds and the centralised governance make it possible to manage these funds in line with our political and climate ambitions. the ability to build transport, digital and energy infrastructure is an essential condition for the success of our green deal. beyond financial constraints, investment is also hampered by the increasing complexity and multiplicity of studies and consultations required for project implementation. i do not deny their necessity, but their inflation has turned the conduct of projects into an endless obstacle race for operators who often become discouraged. it now takes more than a decade to complete a major transport infrastructure project in europe, not to mention the associated cost increases. in the face of economic recovery and the need to accelerate the ecological transition, these delays and difficulties are simply unacceptable. against this background, the smart ten-t report, which is ultimately linked to the investment report, i.e. the cef report, although apparently very technical, contributes significantly to making the project promoters' approaches more readable and to speeding up procedures. to this end, a single point of contact will be set up in each member state, centralising all the necessary authorisations and procedures and acting as a contact point with all other authorities involved in administrative procedures. a maximum of four years, where often ten years are required, is introduced for these procedures, with limited extensions. finally, for crossborder projects, a joint authority may be created or, failing that, a common timetable between two entities from member states and a single applicable law. in short, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of these two texts is to be more efficient, greener, faster, to put into practice a genuine virtuous transition which provides financial and technical assistance in the face of the difficulties encountered by operators and project promoters on the ground. we cannot simply be a check and limit on undesirable and harmful activities, but we must also be a facilitator and accompanist of operational and virtuous responses, both economically and environmentally. we must redouble our efforts. we're running out of time. europe can no longer afford to stand by while its competitors are pushing ahead. there are too many big projects in europe that are too late. economic recovery, environmental transition and the vitality of our territories require us to increase and accelerate our investments. ensuring europe's competitiveness tomorrow and starting the environmental transition today are not two irreconcilable objectives. they are the key to our future. camus, who was a nobel prize winner for literature, said: true generosity towards the future is to give everything to the present. then let's invest in it! in rail, shipping, renewable energy, digital, but let's invest! the present and the future require it.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i believe that the best way to celebrate the european year of the rail is to pursue discussions and initiatives such as those which this joint debate brings together. it is a further step towards ending the fragmentation of the european railway area, a problem which prevents this means of transport from contributing all its virtues to european mobility. mobility which we want to convert, within a decade, into an integrated and intelligent system that goes beyond the philosophy of management by modes, designed to reduce logistics costs and, consequently, to bring competitiveness to our economy. a system that will reduce congestion and that needs the railway as a key piece to meet climate goals. we have been working for decades to end the fragmentation of the railway space by eliminating infrastructure problems, the great goal of the tens, by establishing financing mechanisms with the cef and by solving regulatory problems that now make private enterprise in this sector more than an adventure. we have devoted four sets of rules on railways to this, and i would like to use the opportunity to call for their full implementation. one part of this process is to roll out the european rail traffic management system (ertms) across the priority network of european railways in a timely manner. this is a decisive step towards ensuring interoperability between national rail systems. it will increase the speed of trains, optimise the use of infrastructure by increasing its capacity by up to 30%, and reduce the cost of purchasing and maintaining signalling systems. according to the union's climate monitoring methodology, the deployment of ertms represents a 40% contribution to climate and environmental objectives and also links to support for the overall process of digitisation of the union economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. in this report we advocate a european strategy to accelerate the replacement of national systems by the european one. we call for national implementation plans for deployment to be aligned with binding union-wide objectives. we want to see no exceptions to the installation of ertms in new vehicles and to streamline authorisation procedures. we will try to limit duplication by a transparent register of prototypes that have funding and propose a common public tender model to improve recruitment for work related to this deployment. we also call for a legislative proposal to establish an industrial strategy for ertms. the parties involved consider it essential to increase our capacity, to have a stable and predictable budget and to support the training of qualified staff and the proliferation of readaptation workshops. i am grateful for the work, sincerity and contributions of all those involved in the preparation of this report. we've worked with all the operators involved and tried to combine the technical rigor that the subject requires with the emotional intelligence that the situation needs in order to improve. the ertms deployment is delayed, yes, but we haven't stopped at the juicy headlines that mere whipping could produce. in drawing up these recommendations, we have preferred to share the vision, expectations, proposals and also the feelings of all the actors involved and to prevent the paralysing effect that fears and doubts have on collective efforts. the deployment of ertms is and needs much more than an exchange of reproaches. by integrating action, knowledge and emotion, i hope that instead of a toast to the sun, we have achieved a shared collection of practical and realistic solutions to build the confidence needed to work together as one. that is the objective and the way to achieve ertms deployment by 2030 across the core network and by 2040 across the global network.
member of the commission. – mr president, it’s wonderful for me to be back here with you, especially on a discussion on connecting europe. as transport commissioner, i see strengthening the connection between countries, regions and people as being my main mission. of course, we need to do this sustainably, safely and intelligently and align with the goals of the european green deal. the priority remains connecting europe in line with these principles. the trans—european networks represent the physical connections between our countries – the transport, energy and digital connections. where we have physical links, economic, social and emotional links always follow. this makes the trans—european networks vital for our single market, but also the integration at the heart of the european project. with the connecting europe facility (cef) we have a tool to future—proof our trans—european networks for transport, energy and digital. cef ii, which you are endorsing today, will support the goals of the european green deal and our sustainable and smart mobility strategy with at least 60% of funding allocated to actions supporting the eu’s climate objectives. for transport, the focus is on completing the ten—t core network by 2030 and the wider network by 2050, but cef is also supporting the large—scale deployment of the infrastructure for alternative fuels. we will also be making the network fit for the digital revolution, crisis—proof and resilient to climate change. safe and secure parking areas, and improvements on road safety in cohesion countries will also be supported. last but not least, we will back projects that facilitate civilian defence, dual use of our ten—t infrastructure. for energy, cef supports the development of priority cross—border energy infrastructure projects as part of the ten—e networks, further integration of the internal energy market and interoperability between networks across borders. it also includes a new window for cross—border projects in the field of renewable energy to support renewable projects, and for digital cef supports the deployment of state—of—the art digital networks and 5g systems. the pandemic and the accompanying demand for secure internet connections and higher capacity has underlined the importance of continued network investment. i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteurs mr marinescu, mr riquet and ms virkkunen for their constructive and dedicated work throughout the legislative process and their continued support for the cef programme. once we have agreement on cef ii regulation we will be able to start work first by approving work programmes for each sector, then by publishing the first call for proposals in september. about the ten—t streamlining, today you will also adopt our proposal on streamlining the processes involved in advancing the ten—t. the smoother the process, the faster we will have the full network in place, the earlier the citizens will benefit from investment, including those coming from the cef. investing in ten—t infrastructure projects involves environmental assessments, land—use approvals, public procurement, state aid procedures and other authorisations and permits. the complexity involved, the different procedures across member states, often cause delays to ten—t projects, in particular of transboundary nature. this in turn means cost overruns which is off—putting for private investments. simply, shortening permit procedures could have an impact, including ultimately on how efficiently public money is spent. this is the aim of our proposal. as we move steadily out of the covid—19 pandemic, it is no exaggeration to say that the adoption of this legislation will also aid economic recovery in europe. with faster and clearer permit procedures we will make better use of the time and money invested in the ten—t network. it is also essential that the investment of public money benefits all eu citizens’ health, the importance being to ensure accessibility for persons with disabilities and older persons in transport infrastructures, infrastructure projects. transport infrastructure projects will always be subject to contingencies. however, the streamlining directive, which is the first of its kind in the transport sector, sets the framework for the future, and i thank the rapporteur mr riquet for his work on the file. i would like also to say a few words on ertms as i know that you will also be discussing ms bilbao barandica’s report on this today. my thanks to ms bilbao barandica for the initiative. it really must remain a central pillar in europe’s transport mix. if more people choose rail we will be on track to meet our emissions targets. but to win over passengers and freight, rail must do better. improving rail performance is what ertms, and more broadly the digitalisation of rail, is all about. high—level ertms is the fastest and cheapest way to add capacity to the network. to address some of the points raised in the report, in the short term i would hope that member states live up to their deployment commitments but it is both deployment of ertms at level two or above and the removal of class b systems that will take us beyond this complex expensive transition phase to a simpler, cheaper more uniform system. the commission has tools to influence this and will use them, but delivery trackside and on board trains is the key to success. on funding, the responsibility is shared. the eu has funded ertms with around 4 billion since 2007, and more will certainly follow, but the deployment for just the core network corridors and vehicles costing around 15 billion between now and 2030, eu funding alone will not be enough. we will also need member states, the european investment bank and other support. as we move forward i’m confident that having the european railway agency, as the ertms system authority, will mean improvements in ertms deployment. next year we will present a revision package for technical specification for interoperability, setting out the regulatory framework for further improvements. in the longer term i look forward to the migration to radio—based l2 or l3 ertms for greater technical and operational harmonisation. i hope to see europe’s rail joint undertaking coordinating this, taking us towards a genuine european rail traffic management system. to summarise, the commission shares the goals set out in ms bilbao barandica’s report and broadly the same diagnosis of how to support ertms deployment. so ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time. i’m looking forward to further comments coming from you and to continuous cooperation on this topic.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to join my colleagues, ms virkkunen, mr marinescu, mr riquet and ms bilbao barandica, in special congratulations and appreciation for commissioner adina vălean and her team. the connecting europe facility (cef) will be a key eu funding instrument that promotes growth, jobs and competitiveness through targeted investment in infrastructure. particularly important now while mainstreaming green deal ambitions for 2030 and aiming for climate neutrality by 2050, the cef will seek to better integrate the transport, energy and digital sectors. cef for transport focuses on decarbonisation and making transport connected, multimodal, sustainable, inclusive, safe and secure. we need projects on building missing cross-border links and removing bottlenecks along main trans-european transport corridors, and we need to better connect the union from west to east and from south to north. cef for energy contributes to the transition towards clean energy and the completion of the energy union. it will aim to make eu energy systems more interconnected, smarter and digitalised. we need cef for energy to focus more on cross-border energy projects and, as commissioner vălean has just mentioned, it will promote the interoperability of networks and a better integration of the internal energy market. finally, cef for digital aims to improve digital connectivity by creating very high capacity broadband networks, better digital services and 5g networks along important transport axes.
for the renew group. i am not sure that this is the case. the so-called connection europe facility is a really important and concrete tool in our green transition. the so-called trans-european energy networks are also crucial to the eu's ambitions for a truly fossil-free society. we need more green power, and we need more green power to flow across borders. when the north sea winds blow and the wind turbines spin, for example, that electricity must be transported across europe, across national borders, and we are simply not doing that well enough today. we do not have a real internal energy market, and we must have one. the international energy agency reminded us just a short while ago that we need more cooperation across borders if we are to combat climate change. i think we have reason to be happy today. the cef and ten-e are crucial instruments in the green transition. it ensures more sectoral linking, more integration, more competition. i am glad that we have negotiated this in place so that we can get even more momentum for the green transition.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, the problem with this file is that while the planet is burning, we’re building car parks. we must do better. the connecting europe facility will connect the eu’s energy, transport and digital networks. in the area of transport, it must be used exclusively for sustainable mobility, allowing people and goods to move freely without harming people or planet. and in recent days, we’ve seen extreme heat in pakistan, record temperatures in canada, with hundreds dying. is this the beginning of irreversible climate change? we must err on the side of caution. political groups claim the european deal, the green deal, will save us, yet the connecting europe facility, it predates the european green deal and it doesn’t align with it. the legislative safeguards on infrastructure are insufficient. they undermine our climate goals. decarbonisation – it’s not even a specified objective. there’s a major carbon lock-in with the risk that these transport and energy projects that last for decades the ‘do no significant harm principle’, it would have helped the worst excesses, but it was rejected by the negotiators. yet it is enshrined in other funding instruments like the mff. so why exclude the connecting europe facility? this week, we saw the gulf of mexico on fire from a gas leak. we saw a mushroom cloud over an oil refinery in romania. we can and we must do better. so instead of funding more gas, airports, motorways and the military, let’s prioritise rail, waterways and public transport. by tabling a rejection amendment within the greens group, we are asking negotiators to reconvene and update the cef with key provisions, including the ‘do no significant harm principle’. eu funding needs to align with the ‘not harm’ and ‘not harm our environmental goals’.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, i have to say these discussions are becoming increasingly posed as democracy against authoritarianism, the goodies against the baddies, truth versus disinformation – but of course it’s more complicated than that. in reality what we have is a geopolitical confrontation in eastern europe and both sides are trying to advance their own version of the truth. when the eu strategic communication challenges biased russian narratives in the eastern neighbourhood, it’s not out of disinterest and commitment to the truth, but it too is defending and advancing its own strategic interests. so there’s something quite troubling about the way in which this parliament is embracing a hawkish attitude to foreign interference. increasingly we see the legitimate concern of eu foreign policy being defined as disinformation, and the space for dissent is narrowing inside of our democracies. ‘this is my truth, tell me yours’ said the great welsh socialist nye bevan. he was describing a situation, a fundamental commitment in any democracy where we arrive at the truth through a radical tolerance of – and openness to – opposing views. the moment we close the door on that, we have a step towards authoritarianism. the eu shouldn’t be in the business of defining an official truth. speaking about certain opinions using the language of national security should appal us. stigmatising criticism of our own foreign policy is an anathema to a free and open society. and using any regime of sanctions to combat perceived disinformation is a drastic mistake whether by unanimity or qualified majority.
mr president, the situation in ethiopia is dire: conflict leading to fear and terror, people fleeing from their homes and pouring across international borders, famine and hunger, and desperate and brutal sexual violence and rape. last week’s ceasefire offered a glimmer of hope. however, any genuine ceasefire must include actions to improve the humanitarian situation. the destruction of important routes for the delivery of humanitarian aid is unacceptable. the brutal murders of three médecins sans frontières (msf) staff underlines the dangers faced by humanitarian workers. in relation to what will be left in the aftermath, we know that cases of rape and sexual violence are widespread and brutal, and perpetrated by armed actors. they are not weapons, but crimes, crimes against women. i strongly call on the commission and the external action service to make a strong commitment to support women as they try to rebuild their lives after such devastating attacks. too often, women and vulnerable communities are left on their own when conflicts end. we need to step forward and to be there for the women of tigray.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i’d like to start by thanking tanya and her staff for the really constructive and inclusive negotiations on this file, the result of which is we have before us a report which is really strong in a whole number of respects, in particular, i think, in terms of the criticism of the illegal internal border controls and the criticism of frontex, an agency that has been involved in the most outrageous abuses on europe’s borders. the report also contains necessary references, more generally, to the really atrocious situations at those borders, where pushbacks, horrific abuse and violence are a daily reality for men, women and children who seek asylum in europe. the report could have been stronger on this, but unfortunately, some of the right-wing groups prevented that. but they shouldn’t – because we have to be real about this. europe’s approach to migration for years has amounted to a crime against humanity. tens of thousands are dead. tens of thousands of children and others are a scourge inflicted by fortress europe. we should recognise this and take note, but i thank tanya for the work done on the report so far.
the rapporteur's excellent report, madam president, is a summary of the implementation of free movement in the schengen area with recommendations for improvement. in recent years, the failure of schengen has become one of the first consequences of the current european political turmoil, from the migration crisis to the pandemic crisis. we also witnessed the raising of barbed wire between the limbs. in spite of the provisions of article 3 of the lisbon treaty, a number of member states are trying to nationalise freedom of movement by using this issue for everyday political purposes. the commission should consistently initiate infringement proceedings in such situations. in the event of ambiguity about the control limits, political campaigns should give way to independent control mechanisms. as for the future of schengen, we need to preserve and strengthen it as one of europe's greatest common achievements, and new enlargement is one of the best ways to do so. the commission has confirmed that croatia fulfils the conditions for the application of the schengen acquis. she welcomed the establishment of an independent border control mechanism. i hope that the council will consider these facts and approve our accession as soon as possible.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of equal treatment for all medicinal products. i support calls for the normal functioning of the schengen system not to be equated with border controls between member states. i would like to highlight one important part of this report, namely the accession of croatia, bulgaria and romania to schengen. the report supports this and points out that croatia has fulfilled all the conditions for entry. during 2020, croatia carried out over 226 million checks in the schengen information system, which ranks it among the top five member states. croatia is making extraordinary efforts to prevent illegal border crossings and smuggling of migrants. in accordance with the new pact on migration and asylum, croatia has established an independent oversight mechanism that will have the task of monitoring the work of police officers and their behaviour towards illegal migrants and applicants for international protection. i am convinced that 2022 will be the year of the beginning of our membership in the schengen area. i therefore believe that the recommendations of the european commission and the european parliament will be accepted by the council. ladies and gentlemen, schengen must be seen as security, but also as mutual trust.
member of the commission. – thank you, madam president and thank you all for this debate. i would like to comment on some of the issues that have been raised in this debate. first, many of you have touched upon this issue that we have six member states that have had internal borders checks almost for six years now. and this is one thing that i address in the recent schengen strategy. i will now prioritise, both on a political and technical level, to reach out to these member states and, through dialogue, see how we can make the incentives to help to get rid of the internal border checks and instead investing in other measures. second, what is the lesson learned from the pandemic? this is really something that i plan to address in the upcoming revised new schengen borders code. and i’m really happy to listen also to your opinion on this. in my view, the current border schengen borders code takes only into account the situation when one member state is facing one threat. but we recently saw a situation where all member states, at the same time, were facing a global threat. and then we had no real regulation or coordination for that. so i think this is something that we need to propose in the revised schengen borders code. but i’m happy to listen to the european parliament’s input on this issue. let me end this debate by saying that freedom and security goes hand-in-hand and we can only enjoy free movement if we take care of each other’s security, like neighbours and the countryside that keep their doors open for each other but also look out for each other. and we should do this on a continental scale: keep european citizens safe by protecting the external borders and by fighting crime and terrorism together and by taking responsibility at the political level for the governance of schengen. schengen is an area of trust, and we can only have freedom of movement if there is trust – trust in our ability to protect – and we build that trust by working together to protect each other’s security. and finally, we need commitment. freedom is never easy, never automatic. it’s hard work. and i know that i can count on you, honourable members of the european parliament, on this and your commitment to make schengen work.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, july 7, 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the schengen agreement aims to strengthen a european space to meet the continuing challenges and to combat security threats. membership of schengen implies cross-border participation in the fight against organised crime or terrorism. in a world generated by the covid-19 pandemic, the member states of the european union and the schengen area have introduced internal border controls as a unilateral response to the new challenges. it is time to demonstrate that our values are stronger than the current problems and to facilitate free movement again. romania and bulgaria are to be full members of the schengen area. in view of the many calls for the full application of the provisions of the acquis, the abolition of controls at the internal land, sea and air borders of the two countries must become a reality. romania has successfully managed the eu's second largest land border since accession, and our country's contribution to border security is an important thing for the entire european union. the european union's area without border controls, known as schengen, is one of the most tangible achievements of european integration. the right to free movement for european citizens is one of the pillars of the european project and this must remain unchanged.
in writing. it has been 10 years since romania officially met the criteria for accession to the schengen area following certified assessments, including by the european parliament and the council, in june 2011. however, accession is blocked for political reasons, which have nothing to do with the pre-established criteria. changing the rules during the game is unacceptable and should not be part of the tools used in a rules-based union. therefore, as the european parliament has repeatedly stated, and with the support of the commission, romania and bulgaria must be allowed access to schengen as soon as possible. moreover, both countries have already been successfully implementing the quasi-totality of the schengen acquis for many years, and their contribution to border security is a public good from which the entire european union benefits. at the same time, the eu needs a reform of the schengen rules to implement the lessons learned in recent years, in which freedom of movement has become only theoretical both because of the pandemic and because of hasty and uncoordinated decisions by member states. the eu must deliver a fully functioning and complete schengen area to european citizens as soon as possible, with romania and bulgaria as full members.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis has put pressure on the schengen area, leading to border closures and the introduction of checks by some member states. this highlighted the lack of coordination and the need for reform. before developing the schengen system further and introducing new regulations, it is necessary to extend it. the european parliament has been asking the council for years to respect the legal provisions and approve the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia, especially since the three countries meet the requirements. i am an active campaigner for romania's accession to schengen. many years ago, we collected over 50 000 signatures for the campaign 'romania wants schengen!', which culminated in a petition submitted to the european legislator and which generated the support of the european parliament in this regard. i interviewed and discussed with european and member state officials about romania's accession and relaunched the romanian working group on schengen accession. i believe that the european parliament, the european commission, but also romania, must go all the way in supporting this objective. we must cooperate, because an increasingly strong and united europe is based on solidarity and responsibility. it is up to all of us to ensure that the future schengen area is not fragmented.
the agenda is as follows: joint debate on the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for a second reading on the visa information system (vis): processing of visa applications (a9-0207/2021) (rapporteur: paulo rangel) and the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for a second reading on the visa information system (vis): conditions for access to other eu information systems for the purposes of the visa information system (a9-0208/2021) (rapporteur: paulo rangel).
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, schengen is, as we have just seen, the jewel in the crown of european integration. but this freedom that we share will always require shared security. this balance between freedom and security is only possible if we have at our disposal a complex network of instruments, often invisible to the everyday life of europeans. the european union visa information system is at the heart of this network. it is the most complete example of the symbiosis between the european and the national level, present in all european consulates around the globe and at all the external borders of the schengen area without exception. today, the vis is already responsible for issuing millions of visas to those who visit us, ensuring with its visa code that all tourists are subject to the same rules. over the last few years we've been working on what will be the biggest overhaul since its inception. these are huge changes that make vis a more effective, more useful, easier tool for police, border guards, asylum authorities and consulates. we start by changing the paradigm of the system itself. it is not just tourists who benefit from free movement, but also third country nationals who live, study, work or are in our territory for a longer or shorter period of time. it was therefore necessary, even natural, that all tourists and residents could be subject to the common vis screening. that's what we do. this system will apply to everyone, including so-called 'gold' visa holders. with this change we ensure greater security, which is why we also extend the systems to consulates. all systems consulted, all information systems in the european union will be consulted without any exception, ensuring control even before entry into the territory and we are devoting a huge effort to the protection of children, to the protection of minors. every year in europe, it is estimated that more than 250,000 children -- i repeat, 250,000 -- go missing. we can and must do more to prevent and combat this tragic phenomenon. the vis brings new functionalities, collecting biometric data from all children and young people that can be used at borders or, in the case of disappearance, can be used by the police. madam president, madam commissioner, it has taken hundreds, i repeat, hundreds of hours to negotiate this complicated dossier. the support and commitment of the european commission has been essential to this outcome and i would like to thank commissioner ylva johansson in particular for this. i would also like to highlight the german presidency, which has done a herculean job and has made it possible to reach an agreement in december 2020. finally, a word of great appreciation and thanks to my fellow shadow rapporteurs whose collaboration, guidance, support and also patience were decisive in enabling us, as rapporteur, to achieve the result which i hope will be adopted tomorrow in this house. i would also like to thank all our collaborators, all those who work with us in the departments of parliament, the commission, the council and our offices, because without them a task of this technical complexity and political depth would not be possible. i believe that from tomorrow we will all be on a roll providing a better service to europeans and to all those who have to enter european territory.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would warmly thank mr rangel, your rapporteur, but also the shadow rapporteurs for your relentless efforts and your determination to conclude the negotiations on the upgrade of the visa information system, as well as, of course, the council – the german presidency. this is a major and timely achievement that strikes the right balance between facilitating legal travel towards the european union, improving border management and enhancing internal security. in normal times, millions of visas are issue to non-eu nationals, a sign of europe’s attractiveness for business, tourism and studies. in 2019, 15 million short-stay visas were issued. the visa information system will be a key tool to facilitate legal travel to the eu. firstly, it will benefit travellers and contribute to smooth border checks. for instance, biometric matching at the border to verify the identity of the traveller means foster identity checks. secondly, the visa application procedures for member states’ authorities will be facilitated and more secured. applications for visas will be screened against all relevant eu information systems and interpol databases. thirdly, the upgraded visa information system will strengthen checks at external border-crossing points and within the territory of the member states, because border guards will have better access to more information. at the same time, the revised system will contain robust data protection safeguards. asylum and law enforcement authorities will only get access to the visa information system data where needed. it will be possible to use biometric data for children to fight against child trafficking under specific safeguards. the upgraded visa information system will help complete the eu border management system and interoperability framework, making the schengen area a more secure place for our citizens. it’s an important contribution to the goal that all new and upgraded information systems will be operational and fully interoperable by the end of 2023. the commission will closely support the implementation process to ensure that this will enter into application by the end of 2023. looking ahead, i can already inform you that the next step to further modernise our visa policy is in preparation. by the end of this year, the commission will come with a proposal on digitalisation of visa procedures, which will introduce simplification for the benefit of member states’ consulates and third-country nationals, improve the security of the schengen area and increase the attractiveness of the eu as a travel destination. i therefore look forward to continuing to work with all of you in this upcoming proposal.
we have discussed here tonight the status of the schengen borders code and the governance of schengen, which has as its corollary a schengen information system, which is also european law. and now we are debating the state of the european visa system, also legislated by this european parliament by a regulation establishing a european visa code, of which i was rapporteur in the last legislature, and which has as a corollary a visa information system which must be made interoperable. that was the mandate of the european parliament, not only with the schengen information system, but also with etias, entry and exit and ecris criminal records. that is what interoperability is all about. but it is a huge step forward that this parliament is finally going to vote on the agreement at second reading between the european parliament and the council to bring into force this reinforced vision of the european visa system, which gives greater guarantees of security, of communication with the consulates of all the member states of the european union, of identification of persons entering the european union for short stays. and all this in compliance with the european data protection standard, which is the highest in the world and we are proud of it. but it will now also be up to the member states to ensure the proper implementation of this european visa code and the investments that will be necessary for this. the european agency eu-lisa, the large-scale it systems we have set up to make them interoperable, has estimated the total investment needed to ensure the implementation of this interoperability at eur 182 million, with at least eur 2 million in the immediate future, between 2021 and 2023, precisely for the implementation of this european visa code and the visa information system. we must celebrate that we have reached this agreement between the council and the european parliament, which completes a legislative programme which was started in the last parliament and which has a very important milestone in this debate tonight and in the vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, for years i think the eu’s policies towards migration have rested on the assumption that every person who wants to come here from outside is a potential threat: highly skilled workers, babies, children washed up dead on europe’s mediterranean shores. and sadly, the same logic applies to the revision of the visa information system. there’s actually no rational justification for this. europol says there are no signs of systemic use of illegal migration by terrorist organisations. there’s zero evidence that people using things like work and tourist visas to come here are any more dangerous than the people who already live here. the mania for making every migrant an object of suspicion is really no more logical or rational than the medieval assumption that if a woman was tied to a chair and thrown into a pond and she sank, she was a witch. no more logical, but actually the same type of evil prejudice. and there may be people in here who are happy to bring in a policy based on the type of logic that would make a witchfinder general proud. but i’m not interested in witch hunts, and we won’t be voting for this resolution.
mr president, the fact that 200 million european citizens have downloaded the digital covid certificate shows the importance of this concept that was conceived in this particular house and is now implemented by the commission. but we have to ensure now that member states embrace the concept, that they use the concept of uniformity, of bestowing rights on all european citizens. i would be very concerned if member states started to use the covid digital certificate to confer rights and entitlement on some citizens and not on others. so from my point of view, i really want to insist that member states – and i include my own government in that – need to ensure that everybody has access to services, be they ones that are vaccinated, tested, or in recovery. so from that perspective, i sincerely hope that the digital covid certificate is not used to discriminate between citizens. equally and finally, i want to ask member states, and particularly my own country, to embrace the concept of rapid antigen testing to ensure that we can open up our societies and our economies and ensure that we can return to normality in a safe way. i commend the covid certificate and i encourage everybody to download it and member states to implement it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the pandemic has made us appreciate the competence and humanity of our doctors, the readiness of health workers, of workers in essential services, the generosity of our fellow citizens, but at the same time the pandemic has highlighted the fragility of national health systems, the weakness of the response to the crisis which has been too fragmented among the 27. in the face of the threats of today and tomorrow, the national response is no longer enough. a stronger europe with more competence and more effective instruments is needed and, within the european health union project, a more significant role should be provided for the european medicines agency with adequate resources, competence, including enhanced coordination, also compared to national counterparts. this is a necessary innovation if we are to be prepared to defend our fellow citizens, our health, our economies, in the event of pandemic events like covid-19.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for today’s discussion. in large part, i would say that i’m really pleased to hear that you share the level of ambition and the vision we have in considering the need to reinforce the european medicines agency’s mandate. sometimes, when we are discussing these issues, i find that it’s very easy for us all to forget that this is an unprecedented health crisis, something that we have never been prepared to face globally. again, i want to take the opportunity to thank the european parliament – really each and every member – because i know that, for yourselves as well in various committees and in the plenaries, you have had to step up and move quickly in ways that we had never imagined that we would have to before. in the long run, what i have said from the beginning – and i know that you share it with me – of this crisis, looking at the numbers every day from january 2020, and especially going into february, these were never just numbers. these were never just statistics. these were families; these were people who were affected by covid and who have lost their lives, and people who are still suffering with symptoms. having this discussion today and really hearing from you highlights how we have prioritised. so thank you. we need to make the european medicines agency better equipped for future crises. i heard your concerns on the funding of ema and i wanted to say that the funding of ema to fulfil its obligations in the proposal is already provided for. we always welcome amendments that will further enhance and strengthen the text, but i believe that we also need to keep our sense of balance and our focus. we need to have the right amount of flexibility and be able to move quickly for crises without imposing unreasonable burdens, demands or budgets. i also heard many of you saying that the issue of affordability and shortages of medicines was not something that suddenly appeared with the pandemic. you are right. this was, in fact, in my mandate from president von der leyen. the need to do something about this, to tackle it, was one of the main issues in my first employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) in december 2019, before the mandate. that’s why we put forward the pharmaceutical strategy last year, and it’s through this strategy that there will be legislative changes that will address many of the issues that you have raised concerning the affordability and the shortages of medicines, which have been further highlighted by the pandemic. so what we are looking to do together is to strengthen our preparedness, to strengthen our response capacities for this crisis and for the next crisis, to work together, and to build on the main principle that i believe that we have learned, which is, for me, possibly one of the most important ones, the strength of solidarity, the strength of cooperation, the strength of working together and the power of what we can do when we are ambitious to give european citizens what they deserve in the area of health. so thank you very much. i look forward to continuing our close collaboration.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will be held shortly, and the final vote on thursday, 8 july 2021. written statements (rule 171)
written. despite numerous warnings, we have met the pandemic unprepared. this was best demonstrated by the shortage of medicines and medical equipment caused by a sudden increase in demand which could not be met in time by rapidly increasing production capacity and by the complexity of the global supply chain for medical products. therefore, informed by such experience, we are voting today to strengthen the european medicines agency to provide a long-term framework for responding to future health crises: a framework that establishes a system to monitor and mitigate the risk of shortages of key medicines and medical devices and ensures the timely development of high-quality, safe and effective medicines in emergencies. the pandemic has shown that we need a strong european health union to be able to deal with the consequences of health threats in the future. now is the time to do everything in our power so that our citizens never again find themselves in a situation where they lack basic medicines and medical equipment. strengthening the european medicines agency is the first step towards that.
in writing. the unprecedented health crisis of recent years has highlighted the difficulties faced by the union and the member states in responding to a public health crisis and has shown that, in order to manage the availability of healthcare services more effectively, the role of national health protection should be strengthened in order to make medicines and medical devices more accessible. this is also important in the development of medical responses to public health threats from the outset, ensuring cooperation and coordination between the union, national and regional competent authorities, industry and other actors in the pharmaceutical and medical device supply chains, including healthcare professionals. the union must give priority to health, ensure the continuity of high-quality health care and prepare to respond to epidemics and other health threats. the union's ability to do so has been severely hampered by the absence of a clearly defined legal framework for managing the pandemic response, the inadequate resources of its health agencies, and the limited preparedness of the union and the member states for a public health emergency affecting the majority of the member states. it is necessary to address the shortage of medicines, which poses a growing threat to public health and has a serious impact on health systems and patients' right to adequate treatment. we need to change that with the patient's welfare in mind.
the next item is the debate on the report by grace o’sullivan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a general union environment action programme to 2030 (com(2020)0652 – c9-0329/2020 – 2020/0300(cod)) (a9-0203/2021).
rapporteur. – madam president, today is the culmination of many months of hard work. i owe a debt of gratitude to those who have been involved with myself and my team in compiling this report. it has been a process helped by valuable input from shadow rapporteurs and their teams, as well as other meps, ngos and civil society groups. with their support, i now bring to this chamber what i consider to be a balanced and ambitious report. the eighth environment action programme has the potential to play an important role in decision-making on the environment over the next decade – the critical decade for environmental action. nobody knows that more than our greens adviser joanna sprackett and my assistant rose ní chleirigh. they have both worked on this report with dedication, professionalism and commitment. honourable members, i hope today that you too can show commitment. with this report, i call on you to face the real urgency for strong, effective environmental legislation in the eu and vote to support this report in its entirety. in november 2019, we in the european parliament declared a climate and environment emergency. since that headline-grabbing moment, in this same parliament, we’ve heard countless lofty claims on tackling that emergency. we hear speeches that would give the great orators of history a run for their money. speeches and declarations and grandiose plans that at face value would have us all believing that the climate and environment emergency is in hand, and that we’ll soon see, as the saying goes – everything rosy in the garden. but as another saying goes – talk is cheap. we need less talk, more action and real change. we need immediate, comprehensive and sustained environmental action. but we also need more. we urgently need systemic change! the eu’s environment action programme to 2030 can help deliver on those ambitions. it can help deliver in a way that is not loosely rooted in shallow rhetoric and empty promises. as a field ecologist, i recognise the biological and symbolic reality that shallow roots equal instability. this report has deep roots. this report is not just talk. it makes for far-reaching decade-long legislation that will help spur real action and systemic change. there is nothing shallow in the report’s long-term priority objective for 2050 at the latest: for citizens to live well within planetary boundaries. this report is on track with six environmental priorities for the eu from now to 2030: climate mitigation, climate adaptation, transitioning to a circular economy, achieving zero pollution, protecting and restoring biodiversity, and reducing the eu’s production and consumption footprint. these are essential requirements in the fight for a future. if we want to survive, the time to act is now. we have just a few short years of time, of hope. unless we take ownership for our actions and make decisive moves today, humanity’s future on planet earth is in jeopardy. this report is constructive and ambitious around areas that have the potential to be transformative in people’s lives. gdp, for example, is not a meaningful measure of human and ecological wellbeing, and we know that the aim of eternal economic growth is fundamentally unsustainable. this report, therefore, puts forward a bold and timely proposal on transitioning beyond gdp to a sustainable wellbeing economy that puts the wellbeing of people and the planet at the heart of policy and decision-making. we also tackle the subject of environmentally harmful subsidies. we are engaged in useless tasks of running around in circles if we continue with contradictory talk of ambition, talk of reaching the sdgs, talk of living within the planetary boundaries while at the same time incentivising practices that are wrecking the planet. it’s simply wrong for governments to spend massive amounts of money on activities that heat the planet and destroy nature. article 3 of this report sets concrete deadlines for ending all environmentally harmful subsidies in the eu, including fossil fuel subsidies. deadlines that will bring certainty, predictability and accountability. finally, the commission presented the monitoring framework as the real added-value of the eighth environmental action programme. but we know that monitoring is only effective if it goes hand in hand with political accountability. for this reason, article 4 of this report lays down a monitoring – and governance – mechanism to ensure that progress made towards the programme’s objectives is examined and discussed by political leaders every year, with corrective measures implemented when needed. science tells us that we have just a few years before irreversible and catastrophic damage is done to our life-support system on earth. we need to get this planet back on a path to recovery, and for that to happen we need environmental protection, conservation and restoration on a massive scale, which must be part of broader systemic change. a vote for the full report that was adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) is a vote for a serious, genuine conviction, and commitment to get us out of this crisis and ensure the survival of life on our planet and into the future.
mr president, the strengthening of the european research and innovation area is of the utmost importance for the competitiveness of the european union as a whole. the ongoing coronavirus crisis has once again underlined the important role of science and research in addressing humanity's great challenges. we have been building the european research area for over 20 years, but there is still a lot of room for improvement in the results. i am particularly disappointed that we are still nowhere near the level of investment needed, that is to say, at least 3% of gdp to be invested in research and development, as has long been the objective in europe. we must now add action to this. i would also like to highlight three areas in particular where we now need to give greater european impetus. the commission's communication is welcome, but more concrete action is needed. in particular, we need to improve the exploitation of research results. we still have a long way to go. we must concentrate on strengthening excellence, quality research and its financing everywhere. research and mobility of researchers within europe and internationally must be accelerated and improved, and in particular greater attention must be paid to the research careers of women. and last but not least, academic freedom, scientific freedom, must be able to be secured throughout europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today all european countries, thanks to the next generation eu, are investing much more than in the past in research and innovation, but we want to go a step further. we want a european research and innovation area. a european area is not the sum of 27 national areas, however excellent or better they may be than in the past. it is a space with common objectives, with synergistic strategies, with similar means and objectives and precise and coordinated interventions, with flexible and similar rules, with possible and fluid communication pathways, for example for researchers, with shared research infrastructures and not closed in a national or often even local perspective. only then will europe have the strength, the critical mass, it needs to be strong and competitive on the world stage. i would just like to stress two points among the many things that have been said in the resolution. firstly, the commission and europe need a great deal of coordination, a gigantic effort of coordination, not a proliferation of poles, but a lot of networks and a lot of fluidity and access to results. what is the result for one researcher is the beginning of a path for another.
mr president, mr commissioner, never has a concerted effort by the european union in the field of research been so important and so recognized by the citizens. research must take advantage of the new networking tools to give full meaning to the concept of the european research area, involving territories, centres of knowledge, researchers and interacting in a transparent way with european society. the resolution under consideration consistently encourages networking, synergies, engagement, commitment, transparency, monitoring and reporting of results and demonstration of benefits to people. it should therefore be an inspiring reference for the commission and the member states to apply the available resources to research and development with global ambition, respecting academic freedom and the union's values and ethical principles. it should also be reflected in a framework that mobilises young researchers, entrepreneurs and innovators in general so that, in demanding combination with public policies, it can be the basis for a convergent and supportive recovery of the european union, preparing it to successfully face the challenges of today and the challenges of the coming decades.
before we continue with the debate on the list of speakers, we now come to the second round of voting today. the vote will be taken on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 7.30 p.m. to 8.45 p.m. the same voting procedure will be used as in the last votes, and we are therefore already used to it. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the second round of voting open. the results of this round will be announced tomorrow at 9:00 a.m.
we now proceed to the debate on the request for an oral answer (o-000031/2021 b9-0026/21) (2021/2524 (rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! the proposal for a new european research area will continue and strengthen many of the actions already undertaken, for example in the areas of mobility of researchers, scientific cooperation and access to infrastructure. despite the progress already made, european science still faces some challenges. one of the most important is the need to close the gap and gradually increase public funding for science. however, it is also important to stimulate private sector investment if europe is to compete in research. one incentive could be the announcement of a unitary patent, which is intended to be more transparent and affordable for businesses and thus may translate into a greater willingness to engage in research activities. i am also pleased that the commission is planning to take the lead in developing joint technology action plans with industry. this will allow the strategy to be better adapted to its needs and the results of the research to be more rapidly implemented in the economy.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this discussion and for your relevant comments. europe faces huge socioeconomic challenges linked to green and digital transitions that require forward-looking approaches. with the new european research area (era) the commission proposes an ambitious policy framework, and its implementation is our top priority. this implementation will require joint efforts. we have identified a number of key actions that will be closely monitored and will benefit from appropriate and concerted measures. all the issues discussed are of strategic importance, and we will continue to work towards a pact for research and innovation that sets out ambitious targets, a pact that defends the eu’s common principles and values in research innovation, a pact that establishes an effective policy coordination and monitoring process to support the implementation of national era policies. moreover, the new european research area will improve the free circulation of knowledge and help all member states improve their research and innovation capacities. finally, a new european research area will also require better coordination, including of the actions of the member states in order to achieve greater impact and better results.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, 7 july 2021. the final vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 8 july 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. in the context of the covid-19 crisis, the exploitation of europe's research and innovation potential is a priority. developing new innovations is essential to the eu's economic recovery and to europe's competitiveness. the pandemic has presented researchers with a number of challenges, their situation has become uncertain, they are facing more difficult working conditions, the pandemic situation has hindered the free movement of researchers, the exchange of knowledge technologies between member states. therefore, one of the important elements of the hungarian government's economic protection action plan is to support the employment of highly qualified professionals in the research and development sector, thus contributing to the permanent employment of tens of thousands of workers in the sector, maintaining wages, avoiding redundancies and creating new jobs. wages subsidies for research, development and innovation contributed to the employment of almost 23,000 professionals last year, with a value of huf 17 billion. the wage subsidy program, which was relaunched in january, has helped retain more than 16,000 highly skilled workers this year, totaling huf 12 billion. it is important that, by strengthening the european research area and broadening the range of actors, eu member states can benefit from a greater degree of financial support in order to maximise their national research and innovation potential. the european research area should be made available to smes for direct use across all sectors, thus strengthening long-term strategic cooperation between academia and business.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, marine living resources and the spectacular biodiversity of the southern ocean are severely affected by global climate change. it is of great urgency to further develop effective management mechanisms to take this effect into account. at the international level, the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine living resources (ccamlr) is responsible for designating and regulating marine protected areas (mpas) in the southern ocean. in 2009 it committed to the creation of a representative system of marine protected areas in its convention area by 2012. unfortunately, to date this commitment has not yet been realised. marine protected areas aim to encompass the full range of biodiversity present in the convention area, which covers the southern ocean. they aim to contribute to conserving the unique antarctic ecosystem structure and function. marine protected areas make marine ecosystems more resilient in the fight against global climate change. only two marine protected areas have so far been established in the south orkney islands in 2009 and the ross sea region in 2016. these are the world’s first high-seas mpas and they are a powerful example of international cooperation. the european union and its member states have been at the forefront of international efforts to advance the designation of mpas in the framework of ccamlr. proposals to establish two new mpas have been tabled, one in east antarctica and another in the weddell sea. they are co-sponsored by australia, norway, the united kingdom and uruguay. these two proposals are based on the best available science as determined by the ccamlr scientific committee. if these two new large-scale mpas are approved, they would make an essential contribution to achieving a representative system of marine protected areas in antarctica. they would cover an area of more than 3 million km2 and present a powerful response to the global biodiversity and climate crisis. the proposals have been under discussion for years. with the aim of building support among ccamlr members for their adoption, the european union hosted a virtual high-level ministerial meeting in april. on this occasion the ministers and high-level representatives of australia, france, germany, sweden, spain, belgium, poland, italy, the united states, the uk, norway, uruguay, new zealand, chile and argentina, and the european commissioner for environment, oceans and fisheries, on behalf of the eu and its member states, signed a joint declaration calling for the swift adoption of the two new proposals and welcoming other proposals on the establishment of additional mpas. the ministerial meeting was a success insofar as the united states and new zealand joined as the co-sponsors of the eu’s proposals. participants also expressed support for the proposal by argentina and chile to create a marine protected area in the western antarctic peninsula. the eu and its member states will continue to drive the process forward. the designation of new antarctic marine protected areas is a concrete deliverable of both the eu’s biodiversity strategy 2030 and of the eu’s international ocean governance agenda. it would also be fully consistent with the sustainable development goals and the ambitions set forth for the cop15 of the convention on biological biodiversity that will take place during the slovenian presidency. before i conclude, allow me to point out that this year marks the 60th anniversary of the antarctic treaty. hopefully this will reveal the memory of the original intention behind multilateral cooperation in this area and facilitate timely adoption of the eu proposal aiming at the protection of the unique biodiversity of the antarctic. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, antarctica is not only one of the harshest and most inhospitable places on earth, it’s also one of the most vulnerable. it is, therefore, a place where the two biggest crises of our time are coming to a head: climate change and biodiversity loss. over the past 30 years, antarctica has warmed by 1.8°c, which is three times more than the global average and, only last week, the united nations recognised a new record high temperature for the antarctic, confirming a reading of 18.3°c reported last year. as for the west antarctic peninsula, this is one of the fastest warming areas on earth, where record temperatures above 20°c were recorded during the summer of 2019—2020. climate change is already having profound and potentially irreversible impacts on the southern ocean. retreating glaciers, ice-sheet instability, sea-level rise and ocean acidification are just some of the changes we are seeing. these impacts are real and they are accelerating. this is particularly alarming because the southern ocean plays a major role in regulating the global climate system. climate change is also one of the major drivers of the second global crisis, that of the loss of biodiversity. the southern ocean is home to a rich range of marine life, including different species of penguins, seals, whales and seabirds. the rapid warming of the southern ocean is leading to a habitat loss, as well as to changes in the range of marine species and their interactions. these changes affect every level of the marine food chain in the antarctic. but habitat loss is not only dangerous for marine species. it can also increase the risk of global pandemics, as the covid-19 pandemic has painfully shown. it is the responsibility of the entire international community to address this dual crisis of biodiversity loss and climate change. the european union, as a member of the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine living resources (ccamlr), has a particular responsibility to conserve and protect the biodiversity of the southern ocean. we know that large-scale marine protected areas (mpas) can help conserve marine biodiversity, maintain ecosystems, absorb large amounts of global carbon emissions and build ocean resilience against the impacts of climate change. that is the reason why the international community has agreed to a united nations sustainable development goal, under which we should conserve at least 10% of coastal and marine areas through marine protected areas by 2020. currently, marine protected areas only cover 7.6% of seas and oceans globally. the european union advocates the more ambitious target of protecting at least 30% of the world’s seas, as called for by science. this is the eu position within the high ambition coalition for nature and people as a major element of the global biodiversity framework to be adopted at the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity. new marine protected areas in the southern ocean would importantly contribute towards achieving this goal. to that effect, the eu and its member states have proposed to establish two new large-scale marine protected areas in the southern ocean, one in east antarctica and another in the weddell sea. if approved, they would make an essential contribution to achieving a representative system of antarctic marine protected areas by protecting an area of over 3 million km2. the designation of these new protected areas is a key deliverable of the eu’s biodiversity strategy for 2030 and a key priority for this commission. there is also a third proposal from argentina and chile to create a marine protected area in the antarctic peninsula, which would cover around 0.65 million km2. together, the three proposals would protect as much as around one percent of the world’s oceans. this would constitute a historic act of environmental protection. unfortunately, as you know, china and russia continue to block the adoption of our proposals over various concerns. in view of these disappointing positions, i am even more encouraged by the support i received from the european parliament in the resolution discussed today. i want to thank all of those who have helped to prepare the resolution that this house will adopt tomorrow and to include tonight’s important debate on the agenda of this plenary session, and in particular, catherine chabaud and grace o’sullivan. your support is extremely important. your voice will send a powerful signal to the world about the eu’s determination to have these marine protected areas designated in the southern ocean, and your resolution will also help raise awareness of this crucial topic. turning to the council, i also want to take this opportunity to thank the eu member states for their unwavering support. without their continuous and unanimous backing, we would not have come this far. you can count on the commission’s, and my personal, full commitment to push for the adoption of these proposals by ccamlr. there is no time to lose and i have been focusing on broadening support among ccamlr membership for our proposals. i’m happy to see that this strategy is already bearing fruit. at the ministerial meeting that i hosted on 28 april, the usa and new zealand announced their decision to join as core proponents of our two proposals. i intend to build on this success to convince even more ccamlr members to join as co-sponsors. i have recently reached out to india, south africa, south korea, brazil, ukraine, namibia, argentina, chile and japan to that effect. in order to keep momentum and to take stock, i intend to organise a follow—up ministerial meeting on 29 september. i hope that, by then, we will have more co-sponsors for our proposals. but we must also turn our focus to convincing russia and china to support these proposals. after all, without their agreement, there will be no new marine protected areas. we will therefore continue to systematically raise our proposals with china and russia at the highest possible level and on every occasion. i have invited our member states and international partners to do the same. if we join forces and we speak with one voice, we will have a better chance of convincing others of our cause. we must also use all the opportunities offered by multilateral events and fora to further our agenda. i am particularly pleased with the strong support expressed in the recent g7 leaders’ communiqué for the designation of marine protected areas in antarctica. i hope that the upcoming g20 will be equally ambitious. the commission will also continue to play an active role in the negotiations on an ambitious, legally binding agreement on marine biodiversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction (bbnj), where we are advocating for a clear global mechanism to identify, designate and effectively manage ecologically representative marine protected areas in the high seas. the bbnj treaty should be ratified and implemented as quickly as possible once the final discussions resume after the pandemic. i have already mentioned that the eu will be pushing for the adoption of an ambitious post—2020 global biodiversity framework at the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in kunming. we will also invite our international partners to join the global ‘30 by 30’ goal of protecting 30% planet’s lands and oceans by 2030. we will continue to lead international negotiations to increase the ambition of our major emitters ahead of the united nations climate change cop in glasgow this year. finally, i am hopeful that we will achieve progress at the 40th annual meeting of ccamlr in october. we must keep up all efforts and continue to engage at all levels to drive forward the adoption of our mpas proposal this year. what is at stake is too important.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. i have listened to your speech very carefully and i want to assure you that your activities, your efforts to strengthen the protection of antarctica and the southern ocean have great support in our faction. we are aware that this is a very vulnerable part of our planet today. you've clearly described that there's irreversible climate change, significant warming, and consequent damage to biodiversity. rare species of wildlife are dying out and we need to respond. and who else but the european union? we are the world's leading environmental policy. we're raising awareness of the problems that are associated with climate change. so i am very pleased that you have taken this task on board and want to move forward the process of negotiating at least two protected areas that could reduce and limit these negative trends. we support the extension of marine protected areas in the southern ocean to at least the two areas you have described here, in the east antarctic and the weddell sea. we know there are other proposals on the table besides that, which you also talked about. the proposals presented by chile and argentina. if there is a chance of a successful negotiation here, we would be delighted. i think there must always be a main driver behind such a challenging project, and it is good that the european union, represented by the european commission, is the main driver. this situation will not be easy, you have very well described the problems that some countries represented by china and russia have with this project. but we have to do our best to be successful in the end, because it's about the future of life on this earth and the future of this important region. thank you and we support your activities.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am really proud to bring to parliament today the resolution on the establishment of marine protected areas in the antarctic ocean. i am delighted that mep catherine chabaud and i could work very hard on this resolution. i caught my first glimpse of antarctica from the deck of a greenpeace ship, long before climate change was recognised by world leaders as an urgent crisis. i was utterly moved as an activist. i knew then the importance of this last great wilderness for survival on planet earth. in the european parliament today, once again we recognise that antarctica is a space of rich biodiversity. it’s more threatened by climate change now than ever before. this resolution, which is co—signed by members of almost every political colour, shows that europe and all of her institutions are united behind the protection of antarctica and over three million square kilometres of our oceans, as internationally recognised marine protected areas. but this fight is not over yet. despite antarctica experiencing the warmest summers in history, some nations fail to see the urgent need for action. with today’s resolution, my activism continues, joined by my colleagues here in parliament. today, we send a strong message to those world leaders who continue to bury their heads in the snow: stand with us for antarctica – show the world that activism works!
the president, in view of the economic impact of covid-19 on our economy, is entitled to adopt a strong and appropriate position in the european parliament on the review of laws on a wide range of economic policies. a great deal of work has been done by eu agencies in the member states to help them to achieve their common goals. however, we must ensure that financial support is provided without drawing back too quickly and too carefully. we must follow the laws and strong solidarity that have been in place for the past five months, so that we do not leave any country behind. it is good to know what happens when you forget about the full participation in the economic hierarchy. in the meantime, in the review of a large-scale national programme, there must be a clear solution to ensure that national funds are used to invest in public projects that are of high interest to the public. we must invest in the future of our countries and our citizens. if you're not sure, you can ask us to do the same. finally, i would like to thank you for your report to margarida marques, and to lena hoifig, for their hard work and hospitality.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me thank you, first of all, for the very interesting remarks on the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the review of the economic governance framework. the emphasis put on elements of the debate might be different, but i see a broad convergence around the following points: support should not be withdrawn prematurely, and we have to ensure continued investment in our policy objectives to meet the targets we have collectively set ourselves. at the same time, fiscal sustainability is an important objective and we therefore have to seek a framework that allows for both – growth-enhancing investments and debt reduction in a credible and effective way. we have taken good note of these elements and they will be considered when we are reviewing the framework. of course, we cannot complete our internal reflection before we have heard the views of all stakeholders, which is why it’s so important that we launch the public consultation. we’ll look forward to continuing this discussion with the parliament during the consultation exercise and thereafter when we will draw the conclusions from it.
i have some announcements. following the recommendation of the members' ethics advisory committee, i have decided to impose a penalty, with effect from 7 july 2021, on mr jan zahradil for breach of the obligations relating to the declaration of financial interests referred to in article 4 (2) (g) of the code of conduct, in the light of article 1 (a) of the code of conduct, in conjunction with rule 35 (4) of the rules of procedure. the penalty is a reprimand. the decision was notified to the applicant on 7 july. under rule 177 of the rules of procedure, mr zahradil may bring an action before the bureau within two weeks of notification of the sanction.
next announcement. the non-attached mep luisa regimenti joins the elp parliamentary group as of 8 july 2021.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) after these very interesting announcements and before we proceed to the debate, i would like to give the floor, in accordance with rule 59 (4), to mrs o'sullivan on the referral to the committee on interinstitutional negotiations of her report on a general union action programme on the environment up to 2030. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
mr president, we said yesterday in the plenary that what we voted on the global sanctions mechanism on human rights is not called the magnitsky act. but today, i still see in the announcement of the results that what you call the vote is about the magnitsky act. i have sent an e-mail to the parliament's services to correct this, and i see again that the title is the same. so i ask that there be this correction because there was a political agreement between all the political groups that it should not be called the magnitsky act but the global sanctions regime. so i would like to make a correction with regard to the title.
mrs. arena, as far as i'm aware, your request has been received. the title of the report, as filed and signed, has this condition. i shall also convey your request to the services and to the president of parliament. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
mr president, in accordance with rule 59(4) i request that the file be referred to the committee responsible for institutional negotiations.
the commissioner! mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i'm a co-author of this resolution. it's a fact sheet. the draft resolution also sets out our demands, or rather our demands. and i think my forewords said a lot. but i would like to say that the situation where the death penalty works is not just happening somewhere far away on another continent. it's happening on ours, too. and this in a country bordering the european union. and that's even with two european union member states, including my own. i'm talking about belarus here. if we want to be credible, if we want to ensure that we, the european parliament, the european union, are not accused of double standards, then we should also protest very strongly against the situation where, in the formal and, of course, practical dimensions, such things are happening just outside our borders. i say this because i am glad that today, despite the political divisions, almost all political groups are speaking out on the saudi issue. but let's not forget that there are other countries that need our help. i think we should have a dialogue with the saudi authorities and make our case.
author. mr. president, since 2015, saudi arabia has executed over 800 people, including at least eight young people who were minors; minors like mustafa, executed in june, and as many as nine others who could be killed any day. despite the promises and the millions spent to clean up his image, the reality is that we are facing an absolute dictatorship, which violates the rights of women and social activists, and those of the yemeni civilian population, on a daily basis. and all this in the face of the complicit silence of the european union, which has saudi arabia on its list of strategic partners. that is why we demand that the executions stop; that there be an arms embargo now; that preferential relations and cooperation be ended; and that political and trade relations be conditioned on human rights results. closing our eyes to the atrocities committed by this regime only serves to fuel the impunity of the saudi regime.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, since 2011, the specialised criminal court of saudi arabia has been used as a tool of repression to silence any form of expression of dissent. among those convicted by this court are human rights defenders, religious people, human rights activists, charged with certain offences punishable by the death penalty, simply for peacefully expressing their opinions. today, indeed, the kingdom of saudi arabia is one of the countries that executes the most, like iran, which we also talked about today. saudi arabia has, however, committed itself to no longer executing young people who were minors at the time of the offences. this commitment was not respected. the proof of this is the execution of mustafa al-darwish, who was executed two weeks ago. we therefore call on saudi arabia to honour its commitments and to stop imposing the death penalty on minors at the time of the offences, in line with its obligations under the convention on the rights of the child. but we also call on saudi arabia to join the club of abolitionists of the death penalty. in the meantime, we ask for a moratorium on executions.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, 17 years old is the age mustafa al-darwish was when he took part in anti-government demonstrations, for which he was sentenced to death and executed. fourteen years old is the age abdullah al-howaiti was when he was arrested for a murder he only confessed to after endless torture, even though he had an irrefutable alibi that was not examined. he too was sentenced to death. these death sentences for minors were issued in violation of saudi arabia's international commitments and decisions taken by the crown prince himself. they obviously discredit an inhumane judicial system based on outdated and barbaric laws. the european union cannot be complicit. it cannot compromise on such an affront to human rights. we therefore call on saudi arabia to re-admit abdullah al-howaiti. we call for a moratorium on executions. europe cannot be content with mere incantations on these points, unless it allows accusations of hypocrisy and double standards to flourish. we can no longer tolerate that our economic interests, whether in saudi arabia or other authoritarian states, are paid for by the blood of innocent people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on 15 june, after six years of unjust imprisonment, mustafa al-darwish was killed without his family being informed. i can't think of anything more cruel. he died alone, mustafa, and i extend my sympathies to him and his family. the main evidence, if we can call it that, in a sham trial marked by serious deficiencies and a confession extracted under torture, was a cell phone photograph deemed offensive to the security forces, related to events that happened when mustafa was still a minor and therefore not punishable by death under saudi law. my colleagues, the death penalty is the very negation of all those values for which we fight every day. killing a human being is just another crime and will never be an act of justice. i call for an immediate moratorium on executions by the saudi regime. i call for immediate individual sanctions to be imposed on those responsible for this crime, as well as full transparency in the financing of european political parties or leaders who receive money from countries, authorities or entities linked to countries that violate human rights. no to a europe that is strong with the weak and weak with the strong. we have not forgotten raif badawi or jamal khashoggi. we do not forget that we can only be truly free if everyone is free.
mr president, commissioner, the execution of mustafa al-darwish for taking part in protests when he was a minor is not exceptional in the kingdom of saudi arabia. it’s just another day in the systematic persecution and marginalisation of shia by the brutal saudi dictatorship. we will see more executions like this in the months ahead. but the saudi dictatorship doesn’t care about the scolding of the eu parliament. did they give a damn about our yemen resolution? yemen is still under military siege and bombardment. tens of thousands killed by eu, uk and us weapons, hundreds of thousands of women and children displaced and millions battling the starvation imposed on them by the defenders of the so-called rule-based international order. our friends in the saudi dictatorship will take these words of concern about capital punishment seriously when we stop profiting off them, investing in their ridiculous projects, legitimising their brutal regime and assisting them as they spread death and destruction and fund violent extremism all the way from paris to mali to iraq, xinjiang. italia, in bocca al lupo domenica!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the best social protection can be provided by a viable, economically strong company. i think that companies in this industry must be supported, not just those that fly, the airlines, but also the traffic services companies and the airports. this is the only way to get out of this crisis and at the same time to ensure that the commission does not allow such aid to affect fair competition. traffic is starting to pick up, we're up to two-thirds, but you have to keep in mind that in addition to the covid-19 crisis, these companies are also going through a complicated time because of the green deal. there are voices that say we need to close flights, we need to ban flights, and at the same time raise prices, but at the same time, we need to protect workers. i think that banning flights and protecting workers can't be together in any form. so i believe that mobility is a right of the european citizen and that mobility must be ensured by all means of transport. the best solution for aviation is to have research and development and to get to sustainable transportation, and i'm sorry that there's this double talk. we want environmental sustainability, but at the same time, we don't want to give more money to clean sky. the only group that supported the clean sky budget increase was the epp group. i think that there is still something that can be done in this respect, and about labour relations, to be in accordance with the legislation of each member state.
mr president, commissioner, we are talking today about the impact of the covid-19 crisis on passenger air transport and the whole industry. we know the severity of the impact. we are not optimistic about the future, given the uncertainty about the pandemic, the uncertainty about economic models and their transformation, and the uncertainty about the recovery of global activity. the fourth uncertainty is that of the constraints which will be imposed for environmental reasons in particular. the union and the member states were present and responded to this first crisis, and are and will continue to assess the needs. we will be very attentive, for example, to the rules for allocating slots, which the commission is likely to propose again, to review. our attention, of course, remains fully on international competition and the triple challenge. the effort made by all public authorities - the union on the one hand, the member states on the other - calls for counterparts from airlines, in particular with regard to respect for the social rights of their employees and respect for the rights of passengers. there has not been a general effort by the authorities, by all of us, to make this, at the time of the crisis, a phenomenon of application that allows companies, at a certain moment, to make regulations and arbitrations that are out of place. we believe that the efforts of all, including companies, must be directed towards the recovery, restoration and preservation of the rights of all.
mr president, european pilots and crews have been the victims of bogus self-employment and social dumping for years, and post—pandemic it’s only going to get worse. we’ve already heard ryanair’s michael o’leary bragging about how the pandemic will be a huge opportunity and how the payroll bill will be a lot smaller, with wizz air following suit. against this backdrop, for dg move to tell the trade unions – a point echoed by the commissioner here today – that the national courts were the most efficient way for aircrew to assert their rights is simply unacceptable. do you not know of the ryanair mons case, which took 10 years for the court of justice to rule on applicable law for crew? ten years of horrific hardship for our airline workers. do you not know that the expert group on social matters related to air crew has demanded legal clarity on applicable labour law, such as defining operational base and home base? it’s really time for the commission to act on this. can the commissioner please spell out the timetable for the revision of regulation (ec) no 1008/2008. will it commence this year? will it be concluded in a matter of months? will there be specific legislation to swiftly deal with these issues? otherwise, it’s all hot air, and we’re jeopardising our workers and those who travel with them.
mr president, climate change and the climate crisis are here and are irreparably and relentlessly affecting the whole of europe. we count our wounds and unfortunately we count our casualties every day. this year we have experienced on the one hand the catastrophic floods and on the other hand - and particularly those of us who live in the southern regions themselves - the catastrophic fires. my home country of cyprus has suffered irreparable damage from the devastating fires, has been tested hard and looks forward to the only support and hope it has left, the support of the solidarity fund. i would also like to express my sympathy, my sympathy and my support to all the countries and all the people of europe affected by these extreme climatic events. the european union must, however, put its finger on the nail and take action. i believe it is time to set up a special fire brigade which can respond immediately to fires all over europe. cyprus as a country is offering to host on its territory the base of this firefighting force of direct and rapid intervention by the european union. i would also like to ask the european union to strengthen the climate change solidarity fund so that it can support all those affected and repair the damage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. a few weeks ago i had the opportunity to visit with the mayor of altenahr, which is in my constituency, the place where the first person died on 14 july: a fireman who had just saved someone else and then died in the floods himself as a result of an accident. and i've seen people who have lost everything, who have tried to renovate their house, not knowing if the building material even supports it. and there is my colleague ralf seekatz, who has a much worse situation in his constituency: altenahr, a dead man, altenahr, the ahr valley, many, over 100 dead. and that is why it is so important for us that europe is now united. we are very concerned about the reports that the money is not enough. i think we really have to think about this, commissioner. i am sure you have the support of the european parliament and we must challenge the council accordingly. we have to help unbureaucratically, and again, please make it clear that public tenders, state aid rules are now being suspended here so that we can get on with it. but then we have to invest funds from the european solidarity fund. in the one city alone that i visited, in my constituency, the damage to public infrastructure is 60 million. and if we look at this throughout germany, throughout europe, it's much more. so grab it and help.
member of the commission. – mr president, it was a really important debate, and i thank you very much for all the examples and vivid stories that we shared with each other. all of us have lived through these types of dramatic situations. in fact, i think there is a convergence here around a set of messages. first, climate change and its impact and its devastating effect is here. it’s not something in books or of the future. second, we have got to act. thirdly, we have a lot of expressions of gratitude to be shared in relation to all those that helped in these circumstances. now we go to what we can do in relation to it, and, in fact, i go back to my three points. first, the important thing is to distinguish what is emergency support from the union and what is the reconstruction after the crisis. in terms of the emergency support, what we saw was a substantial number of positive examples. we have to work on when things apparently didn’t work so well, combining the eu civil protection mechanism with the copernicus emergency management service (cems). this is something on which we have got to build and have got to work. second, we have the eu solidarity fund. we know that crises and natural disasters are only going to increase, and of course, we have got to make sure that the fund has adequate resources in relation to the size of the damages and the frequency of the damages. but let me recall that, for the time being, the situation that we have is not that the fund is being blocked by anything. there are 12 weeks during which member states calculate the damage, and we are only talking about the costs of the emergency and recovery operations by public authorities. this is the structure of the fund. for the time being, we have only received the adding-up of these costs from cyprus, but we know that other countries, including the netherlands and germany, are making their calculations of what the damage was. so this is 12 weeks. they are not exhausted yet. this will of course have an impact not only on the budget of 2021, but also of 2022. the budget of 2021 takes six weeks so we’ll see when it comes. the commission is also giving support, help and technical support to the member states in the preparation of these portfolios, this collection of bills, in which they are asking for – or they will be asking for – support. there are of course thresholds and these thresholds try to give a proxy for supporting more those for which the damage is sufficiently big. so there are thresholds and these thresholds to activate the solidarity fund are of either 0.6% of the gross national income of the country or 1.5% of the average gross domestic product of the affected regions. these are the thresholds from where the solidarity is considered to be needed and member states are making exactly this preparation. but, third, we have got to bear in mind that what we are talking about with our fit for 55 and our climate law is to embody these objectives and this need for preventive measures, and not only repair measures, when we are preparing our plans. now we have a huge financial support to build back better, and the content of building back better has got to include a substantial amount of these preventive climate-related projects. so, at this moment, we have the recovery plans of all the member states, we have react-eu that is already in operation and can be used for repairing, and we have the cohesion funds 2021—2027 that are being prepared by member states. so i also call on you, as representatives of citizens, to make sure that, when we are preparing – and we have funds like never before – to recover from the pandemic, we recover with a better and a more robust resilience for our economy and for our citizens. in fact, everything that we are talking about is core to the plans that we’ll be receiving from member states. only one of these plans has already been approved. that is the greek one. all the others are in preparation, so it’s the right moment, in fact and in practice, to build back better. thank you very much. we’ll take very seriously on board, in the future and in our immediate discussions, everything that you had suggested, including, as the chair of the committee on regional development (regi) has suggested, to have a special fund. let’s see how we can organise ourselves with the available instruments in order to reach the best in the answer and preparation for a climate that is more and more aggressive.
the joint debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – the summer of 2021 was full of disasters, with floods and fires all over europe. but sometimes fires are not just fires, they are arsons. sometimes floods are not just floods, they are consequences of landslides provoked by illegal deforestation. and these we call green crime! such disasters lead not only to economic damages, but also to deaths. this year there was a cyclone in romania, with devastating storms causing destruction. climate change is a reality causing natural disasters five times more frequently than in previous years. therefore, we need to adapt our solidarity mechanisms and provide for the damaged regions solid rehabilitation plans, accompanied by financial resources. we need to strengthen the eu civil protection mechanism and improve the infrastructure to be more resilient to natural disasters. we also need to provide to the population early warning tools, like alert systems, in order to save lives. sometimes natural disasters are the consequence of environmental crimes, others aren’t. this means we need to invest in both: crisis preparedness and fighting green crimes. and by doing so, we invest in the safety of our families.
the next item on the agenda is the council's statement of position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2022 [2021/2762 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i am honoured to present today the council position on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2022. firstly, i have to recall the challenges of the covid-19 situation that has imposed issues on all of us as well as on the preparation of the budget. the pandemic has had a significant impact on the everyday life of european citizens and also on the way european institutions work. we have seen over the summer the changing situation that can occur at any time through natural or other disasters, and the recent international events will surely generate future uncertainties in many areas such as border management, humanitarian aid and migration. it is therefore very important for the council to foresee sufficient margins in the budget to face the challenges and risks that may await us also next year. let me emphasise that in these challenging and dynamic times, we are fully aware of the responsibility as budgetary authority to fulfil the expectations of eu citizens to bring forward a balanced and forward-looking budget for 2022. as always, the council will call for prudence and financial discipline. in the current situation we need to be careful about how the eu taxpayers’ contributions are spent. the presidency will do its utmost to conclude a budget for next year that will take the eu forward, focusing on the main objectives of the union and benefits for the citizens. we have worked on the commission’s proposal since its presentation on 8 june. i am pleased to say that after careful reflection, the council has reached a well-balanced position adopted with unanimity on 6 september. the council position foresees an amount of eur 167.6 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 169.9 billion in payments appropriations. they correspond, respectively, to 1.12% and 1.14% of the eu gni – gross national income – and ensure a quick and substantial progression of the main beneficiary programmes. on operational expenditure: for headings 1-6 the council proposes some adjustments in the commitment appropriations to take into account the delays in the adoption of legal bases and to guarantee a balanced evolution of expenditure until 2027. this is in particular relevant for the programmes that benefit from top-ups from article 5 of the mff regulation and significant additional appropriation from the assigned revenues that come from the next generation eu (ngeu). based on a realistic view on the absorption capacity of beneficiaries and national and european administrations, we expect the implementation of several programmes in 2022 to be lower, as foreseen by the commission. we therefore propose to backload the financing of some programmes to the second part of the mff period. in addition, we advocate not using article 15(3) of the financial regulation in 2022, but to backload the proposed amounts to the second part of the mff period. we should ensure appropriate funding of horizon also after the top-ups from ngeu. i would like to stress the fact that a large number of key programmes across all headings have been accepted at the level of the commission’s draft budget. this is the case, for instance, for programmes under economic, social and territorial cohesion, as well as for agriculture, which represent the largest budget shares. concerning heading 6, the council intends to adjust the ndici by reducing the cushion and ring-fencing the commission’s margins for manoeuvre for next year and by adjusting the appropriations of the common provisioning fund, yet allowing for a prudent provisioning or related compartment. as regards payment appropriations, most of the proposed savings are due to the repayment costs of the funds borrowed in the capital markets in the framework of the european recovery instrument to take into account the lower interest rates, both current and expected. the council does not propose any changes to the complexion lines to ensure smooth payments from previous years. on administrative expenditure: following the guidance given by our leaders, the council has consistently advocated strict discipline on both staffing levels and non-salary related expenditure for all institutions. therefore, we have reduced heading 7. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to the issue that raised great concern in all member states, the proposal of the european parliament to increase significantly its establishment plan and the number of its external staff for the next year. the council reserves its position on these proposals. we would like to better understand the rationale behind such an important increase. concerning the decentralised agencies, we propose to adjust lines for expenditure for some of those agencies as cruising speed when their increase is higher than 2%. however, we did not propose any adjustments to the decentralised agencies with new tasks, with the only exception of the european border and coast guard agency, frontex, for which certain appropriations are backloaded to the financial years 2023-2027 and a certain amount is put to a reserve. on special instruments: the council proposes to maintain the appropriations entered into draft budgets for 2022 for the solidarity and emergency aid reserve, the european globalisation adjustment fund and the flexibility instrument. it also proposes to introduce in the brexit adjustment reserve line the amount agreed by the co-legislators for both commitment and payment appropriations for 2022. it is also worth noting that two council statements are attached to our position, one of them being the traditional one concerning sufficient payment appropriations in the area of agriculture and cohesion, while the other refers to next generation eu repayments. the council will reassess its position once the commission presents all the missing elements in its letter of amendment to the draft budget which is expected during the month of october. let me conclude by saying that i hope today is the beginning of a series of constructive and open exchanges which will allow us to reach a balanced and meaningful compromise on the budget for 2022. without deviating from our common goals we will have to prioritise and demonstrate our strong commitment to europe, and i am convinced we will be able to find a common position within agreed timeframe.
member of the commission. – mr president, first, i would like to welcome the agreement found by the slovenian presidency and ms drmaž on the council position for the draft budget 2022, and i would also like to thank you, ms drmaž, for the clear presentation of the council position, but let me also make some remarks. the commission has presented a draft budget for 2022 which is in line with the multiannual financial framework (mff) agreement reached nine months ago. the margins left in our proposal – i’m talking about eur 1.2 billion in commitments and eur 1.4 billion in payments – are adequate to cover unforeseen needs. the commission regrets the council proposal to increase margins by cutting by eur 722 million the commitments of the draft budget of eur 1.4 billion in payments. these cuts are not accompanied by adequate justification. some remarks concerning the different headings: in particular heading 1, single market, innovation and digital, which accounts for 12.9% of the budget in commitments, suffers 30% of the council’s proposed reductions. these disproportionate cuts are at odds with the priority given to this heading by many member states. the proposed cuts would mean that programmes may be hampered and delayed. specifically, for horizon europe you have proposed cuts of eur 316 million, which i find difficult to understand given the excellent absorption capacity of the programme and the importance of research for the competitiveness and sustainability of our economy. the same applies for the digital europe programme and invest eu. i invite the council to be open and reconsider its position regarding the very large cut – i’m talking about eur 300 million – on the interest line for the european recovery instrument ngeu in heading 2b, resilience and values. it is true that the first borrowing rates for ngeu have been very favourable; however, it would be prudent to wait until later this year to have a clearer view of the outlook for next year. i would propose to come back to this issue at the time of the conciliation. for heading 6, neighbourhood and the world, the large reduction proposed to the ndici cushion – we are talking here about eur 400 million – not only jeopardises the implementation of the recently adopted legal base, but also the financing for syrian refugees in turkey and beyond. i would urge, therefore, the council to reconsider this position, also in view of the upcoming amending letter. we take note of the position of the council regarding the ep budget and the increase in staff requested mainly by parliament. i would just like to recall that while stable staffing in all the institutions is not explicitly provided for in the interinstitutional agreement, the mff ceilings for heading 7 were established on that assumption and were agreed by both parliament and the council. and i have to say that i think we should also look at this issue in view of the potential development of the inflation rate. the commission has made a balanced proposal in line with the union’s political priorities to get europe back on track by stimulating the recovery and facilitating the green and digital transitions, while always ensuring eu added value, impact and results. the proposal was based on thorough analyses of the level of appropriations required. providing adequate financing for successful programmes is a necessity and therefore the cuts proposed by the council raise serious concerns. as regards the next steps, we will present, as usual, the amending letter in october to update agricultural expenditure and some new elements which will have been proposed or updated since the adoption of the statement of estimates on 8 june. for example, the impact for 2022 of the proposed package for the syrian refugees as presented in june. following the db reading, i will send you the usual executability letter just before the start of the conciliation. i believe that the budgetary negotiations on the 2022 draft budget can be concluded according to the calendar agreed. i think last year should and could be a good example. i and my team stand ready to work with your rapporteurs and the presidency during the procedure to facilitate an agreement between parliament and the council.
chair of the committee on budgets. – mr president, i think it’s an understatement to say that a lot has changed in the past year. we kicked off a new budgetary cycle with the adoption of the new mff a little bit more than six months ago, and we also reached an historic agreement on the recovery instrument. however, it is clear that at this point in time the signs of improvement of the economic scene remain very fragile. we cannot ignore the ongoing struggle with the pandemic, and also the fact that we are seeing the new delta variant, we are seeing possibly a new wave. but there are some things that do not seem to change. the council appears for us the guardian of an outdated ‘business as usual’ approach, still following the logic of top—down cuts to reach a pre—determined overall reduction target. concretely this means cutting across union programmes and instruments no matter the added value, no matter the absorption capacity or the political relevance. a striking example is horizon europe. we all know this programme. it has proven its success and ability to support health, digital, green and other objectives. this programme was cut by the council already in the mff negotiations, and from parliament’s side we succeeded in getting back eur 4 billion into it, but now the council is proposing to downsize it once more, for 2020. this is not serious. also, how can the council reduce the digital dimension, when achieving digital sovereignty is a clear and across—the—board shared objective? and how can it justify the cuts in the eu4health programme? at the moment we are hearing that probably tomorrow we will hear about a new initiative, the health emergency response authority, with a budget of eur 6 billion. so we are looking forward to seeing how that fits in with what is already on the table and what should come on the table. it’s time for parliament to define its position. we will be ready to enter into negotiations, as the rapporteur has already indicated, as soon as parliament has adopted its reading in mid—october, with a clear objective that the 2020 budget is fit to face the challenges ahead of us. however, it is already clear for us that we need to revise the mff in order to take into account the impact of, for example, the new health initiative, the consequences of the situation in syria, and then of course also the recent developments in afghanistan. there will be a lot on our plate.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. thank you for this interesting and fruitful exchange of views. today's debate has shown that, despite differing views on the individual budget items, we share the common objective to establish a stable budget for the european union for 2022. perhaps we differ only in the way and the order of priority in which we achieve these common goals. i would just like to point out that the council did not reduce the budget of any of the european institutions, it only reduced the growth of expenditure. we are therefore now looking forward even more eagerly to the european parliament's position on the 2022 budget, which will be the basis for the formulation of positions that we will negotiate with a view to reaching a final agreement in november. we know that we can count on the commission to act as an impartial mediator in bridging the gap between our positions and to propose balanced compromise solutions. the union as a whole needs a budget that meets the needs of its citizens in the post-pandemic period. this means that we must strike the right balance between effective and targeted spending and limit the excessive tax burden on the european union's economy and its population. i am confident that with the dedicated efforts of all, we will be able to reach this agreement in a timely manner. thank you again for your attention, and thank you very much.
thank you, mrs drmaž. the aim is to have a budget that meets the challenges of our time and the expectations of citizens in the european union's ability to act. the debate on this item is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – the european council has presented an unambitious budget proposal containing several important cuts. 2022 has to be a full implementation year for eu programmes with important priorities for the social recovery, sustainable future, solidarity and eu values. investing more in healthcare and education, and developing our economies and social infrastructure – while leaving no one behind – are key priorities. we have to make sure that the eu’s budget delivers on all eu priorities, relaunches our economies, ensures the protection of our citizens and invests in our future. we call for more ambition from the council and member states in reaching our common targets, managing the pandemic and preparing for future challenges linked with the digital and green transformations.
and since it is 20 seconds to 1 p.m., i do not wish to interrupt the sitting but to continue by opening today's voting. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the vote will take place from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting to be open. the results of the voting will be announced at 7 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.01 p.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in afghanistan (2021/2877 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, this has been the afghan summer. during 20 days of august, we were engaged in the afghanistan tragedy because what we have seen in afghanistan is certainly a tragedy for the afghan people, a setback for the west and a potential game-changer for international relations. if we want to look at afghanistan after the end of august, we have to look at it from these three points of view: as the afghan people’s tragedy, as a western setback and, for the whole world, a change in international relations. we have all seen the collapse of the afghan army and the government and the takeover by the taliban in less than ten days. since the taliban announced their interim government, which is neither inclusive nor representative and includes people who are on the united nations sanctions list, we know what we can expect from them. our initial focus was on evacuations. the european union’s efforts to provide protection for afghans most in need was important, but insufficient, and it has to continue. the afghan crisis is not over. the european union’s foreign and defence ministers have discussed how to operate in the months ahead. they have charged me and the external action service to try to coordinate their efforts in order to evacuate some european union nationals who are still there, some members of our former staff who are still there, and many other afghans who have been engaging in building a democratic and free afghanistan, according to our values and with our support. and now we have to give them as much protection as we can. so the question now is how to deal with the new government and what we can do in the wider region, but we also have to look, with an important self—criticism, at the lessons that we can learn on state—building efforts elsewhere in the world. because what has happened in afghanistan should teach us a lot about this exercise of state-building, which is much more difficult than what president bush could have imagined before the invasion of iraq. what does it mean for our relations with the us? what does it mean for the development of a european strategic autonomy, for our security and for our defence policy, and afghanistan itself? a dramatic humanitarian situation in the country lies ahead. food prices are rising. the financial system is in freefall. the commission has decided to multiply by four our help from eur 50 to eur 200 million, four times more, but still a drop in the ocean. commissioner lenarčič confirmed that the meeting with united nations secretary—general guterres convened yesterday, was a success from the point of view of the financial resources raised, and we will try to stay and deliver. we also know that many people at risk want to leave the country. we have to help them. to have any chance of influencing events, we have no other option but to engage with the taliban. engaging doesn’t mean recognition – no – but engaging means talking, discussing and agreeing when possible. with the ministers and the council, we agreed that the level and nature of this engagement will depend on the actions of the new government on the following five benchmarks, benchmarks that have to be used in order to calibrate how the new government behaves and, according to their behaviour, how we engage with them. nothing original. you know very well what i am talking about. we haven’t invented anything extraordinarily new, but we have to have some benchmark. the first benchmark is for afghanistan not to be a base for the export of terrorism to other countries. the second is respect for human rights, in particular for women’s rights, the rule of law and freedom of the media. maybe you believe that i am mentioning a kind of oxymoron because to talk about human rights from the taliban side may be a pure oxymoron, but this is what we have to ask them. the establishment of an inclusive and representative transitional government, which, by the first sign, has not been fulfilled at all. free access for humanitarian aid and allowing the departure of foreign nationals and afghans at risk who wish to leave the country, as already decided by the united nations and in line with the commitments made by the taliban themselves. this last benchmark was strongly discussed among the ministers because nobody wants our offer to provide protection to the afghans at risk to be considered a kind of ‘call effect’, as some ministers understand happened in 2015—2016 during the syrian crisis. no, we don’t want to create a call effect, but we want to protect a lot of afghan people that deserve our protection, and there are many of them. we have to discuss with the taliban how we can offer and make effective these protections. in order to implement these benchmarks, we agreed to coordinate our contact with the taliban, and we are considering a european union presence in kabul coordinated by the external action service. in fact, our delegation there has never been closed. the embassies of the member states have been closed and are not going to reopen, but we still have a delegation, which is not an embassy – since we are not a state – and can be used as an anthem if the security conditions are met in order to discuss with the government in a closer way than through videoconference or messages. it’s clear that we need to engage more with afghanistan’s neighbours and regional actors. so we therefore agreed in the council to task the external action service to coordinate the efforts of the european union in strengthening our regional outreach and trying to convene a regional political platform for cooperation among afghanistan’s neighbours at ministerial level. we will do that during the next un general assembly (unga) week. certainly, all ministers of the european union are doing their duty and travelling to the region, to the neighbours, but i think we need that kind of coordination among us. it would be much easier if, instead of 27, we could speak with one voice. we will never substitute the efforts of the ministers of the member states, but we should try to coordinate them. the regional context is highly complex with competing agendas among the main players but, amid the rivalries, there are also joint interests and there is a compelling need for more regional approaches to work in front of the population flows that will be happening. it will happen. nobody knows how big they will be – not as big as in the syrian war – but it will depend on the evolution of the situation in the country. we have to prevent the increase of terrorism and fight against organised crime, including drug trafficking and people trafficking. we are already working for a resettlement forum. my colleague, the commissioner in charge of home affairs, is working hard to organise a resettlement forum in order to share these people when they are on the move – and they will be on the move if the taliban allows them to be. so these are the action tracks. this is the action that i will be in charge of developing in the coming months together – team europe, the external action service, the commission and member states. it will be difficult, but i think that all together we can do better than each one on their side. later, we have to continue discussing the lessons that we can learn, and i think that an evaluation has to be done, not just to talk about it, but to engage seriously on an evaluation. we talk a lot about public policy evaluation. well, this is a case for public policy evaluation. what has gone wrong? not in the last 20 days, but in the last 20 years, since the beginning of the occupation. because i am sure that a lot can be learned for future actions in other parts of the world where we are engaged. i hope that this discussion today will help to understand better what is happening and to engage positively on the answer that the afghans are waiting for from us.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, dear commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the lessons we have learned from afghanistan and the consequences we are drawing from it for other conflicts, but also in general, and the instruments we will be using or creating in foreign, security and defence policy in the future, will be discussed in detail elsewhere. in the short term, i think we can all agree that we must also bring humanitarian aid directly into the country, above all through the channels of the united nations, in order to avert the prospect of famine. we all agree that we need to make sure that the vulnerable groups who have worked for us, or who are targeted by the taliban, whether they are journalists or civil society activists, especially women's rights activists or teachers or public servants in vulnerable positions, can come to us. for that we have to talk to the taliban properly , but without formally recognising them in any form. i think on the one hand we have now stopped development aid for the first time. i think we must look at it, project by project or sector by sector, for example in the field of agriculture, to see whether it is possible to work with the local partners who have remained there to ensure that these projects can be continued. but that is a matter for further consideration. we must also ensure that neighbouring countries are given immediate assistance in providing decent accommodation for people who may be refugees.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, it breaks my heart to see how the taliban have destroyed our country in one day. these are the words of nilofar bayat, an afghan paralympic athlete who was evacuated from afghanistan to spain last august, but they are also the words of thousands of afghan women and girls who do not remember what it is like to live in subjugation. the first lesson to be learned is to accept that you cannot transform a country without the strong support of the local population. the military intervention - let us admit it - has been a failure, but there is still time for the humanitarian response and for it not to be a failure. it is not the time to look for blame now among allies, but to work together for the stability of the country and the region and for the protection of the rights of the afghan people. the launching of a reception centre in madrid by the government of pedro sánchez for afghan collaborators of the european union and their families is a commendable gesture of solidarity. it is now up to us to strengthen a humanitarian corridor, coordinated by the european external action service, to repatriate the thousands of people who have been left behind, and for all governments to be able to grant humanitarian visas and give shelter to people fleeing the taliban terror. we cannot proclaim respect for human rights in the air while millions of people are sinking into despair before our eyes. let us now abandon the double-talk, turn words into deeds and reach an agreement on migration in the european union, an agreement with sufficient material means and based on the principles of solidarity and humanity. let us never forget that europeans are the children and grandchildren of refugees who also fled persecution in search of a better future. the effort made in afghanistan over the past 20 years cannot become a nostalgic memory. in addition to the construction of schools and hospitals, freedom and equality also flourished, particularly for a new generation of afghans. the taliban have not changed: they still consider women as inferior beings and they still consider that they have less rights than men. women of the world: let's unite to help afghan women and girls with all our strength; the brave protests in the streets show that they are full of energy, hope and dreams. the taliban may conquer the territories, but they will never conquer the hearts and minds. i ask for the support of this house for afghan women to be awarded the sakharov prize 2021. the return of the taliban also marks the beginning of a new geostrategic reality in which the european union has to start standing up for itself. the time for byzantine discussions about whether we need strategic autonomy must come to an end. let us develop a genuine common foreign and security policy which will enable us to have the necessary instruments to guarantee the union's sovereignty as soon as possible. the creation of an international task force that avoids the trap of unanimity would prevent anyone from giving lessons to the european union again. the fall of kabul has been a crushing defeat for those of us who believe in human progress. in a world still struggling between civilization and barbarism, it is time to show that our european dream has not only brought about the greatest period of peace and prosperity on our continent, but that it must also be a great legacy in order to provide a humane response to the global challenges of today and tomorrow.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, mr high representative, dear colleagues, after 20 years of fighting international and domestic terrorist groups in afghanistan, the immense efforts to build a state with education and healthcare to everyone were left with prevailing uncertainty and a lasting hope to sustain the achievements so cherished by the afghan people. complete withdrawal of nato and partner countries’ forces, followed by the collapse of afghan national forces, widespread demoralisation and paralysis of public institutions, left us observing a departing train. we are experiencing the worst-case scenario, which we strongly rejected just two months ago. a high price still to be paid, firstly, by the afghan people and their vanished prospects of a better future. despite all this, multiple voices advocating for a different future for afghanistan remain. they speak as women, courageously protesting in different cities around the country, journalists continuing work despite arrests and violence, resistance fighters in the panjshir valley determined to sacrifice their lives. we have to admit that the peace talks only led towards institutionalisation and strengthening of the taliban. it did not bring long-awaited stability and security for the afghan people at large. today, our strategy for afghanistan is to protect afghans and our joint achievements. we have to secure lives of afghan change-makers and civil activists, and to save millions facing poverty and famine. we must demand that the taliban ensure the basic rights, in particular of women and girls, and we need to build solidarity among the member states to welcome the afghan asylum seekers. just like you, i am convinced that afghanistan should not be led by radical mullahs but by educated, open-minded afghans, who are oriented towards a common good.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, yes, the moment is sad and full of dissatisfaction, yet allow me to remind you that nations decided to engage in afghanistan upon a task given by un security council resolutions adopted unanimously to combat a threat to international peace and security by all means. allow me to repeat the words of jens stoltenberg, that certainly throughout 20 years afghanistan was not the root place for a terrorist attack on our territory, our euro-atlantic territory, yet we have to learn this lesson and once more engage broadly. i think that multilateralism is proper once more to solve this problem. not all un members supported our efforts, and now we have to have efforts as broad as possible and a concise strategy for afghanistan. i am afraid that the eu is not enough to fulfil this task. once more we have to have international community probably with a different strategy, but certainly let us do this.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, this debate about afghanistan is only worth having if we agree that those responsible for this illegal 20- year invasion, occupation, and the deaths of close to a quarter of a million people are held to account for their crimes, and mr borrell, you think the lesson from it all is that we need more european defence? we learned nothing from afghanistan if we do not call what happened by its name: it was war by the imperialist core to advance its geostrategic interest. nato has to be held to account for its crimes against humanity. we were told by the external action service last week that nato were fighting terrorism, fighting migrants, migration, and fighting the drug trade. fighting terrorism. you are killing innocent people, women and children. you are creating terrorists. fighting migration. you are destroying the place. you are creating migrants. fighting the drug trade. it went from 185 tonnes in 2001 to 9 000 tonnes in 2017. look at the sahel. the same thing has been repeated. phantom soldiers getting phantom training, puppet governments that don’t have the support of their people, the enrichment of corrupt elites and the arms industry. last year, the eu-trained forces in the sahel killed more civilians than terrorists. when are we going to stop feeding the arms industry? stop supporting us imperialism? stop killing people with arms? stop killing people with sanctions? instead, europe now needs to provide sustainable refuge for those who have fled the mess we helped to create.
madam president, women and girls in afghanistan need our full attention. they need to be heard and they really need help. the situation is worrying. the little progress made over the past 20 years – especially when it comes to the education of girls – is in danger. but even more worryingly, so many women are in danger. their lives and future is looking very dark, because ‘taliban’ means systematic, brutal oppression; it means hating women. it is against this backdrop that we, the european union, have to re-evaluate the past in order to avoid mistakes in the future. this means we need strategic autonomy. (our most important partners are the un and the ngos on the ground.) and we need to make all money and help contingent on clear conditions like the respect of human rights, especially the respect for girls’ and women’s rights.
madam president, afghanistan. the pictures have all but disappeared from our tv screens but in afghanistan the horror continues for vulnerable women, children, minority populations, human rights defenders and those falling through the cracks. to ensure safety i can’t disclose the painful, direct stories afghan families have shared with me, their stories of people hiding in fear, driven to despair with grief and terror. i need to be able to tell these people the eu is doing something. we need more comprehensive action around providing visas and safe passage to europe for those fleeing for their lives; more work with bordering countries to negotiate a deal for afghans to enter the eu safely; a broadening of the scope of family reunification to include vulnerable family members under threat; and we must, we must uphold our 2030 un agenda commitment to leave no one behind.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, allow me to start with thanking andrius kubilius for his very important work. certainly it is an important report and very important that we take this debate, and eventually, i hope, adopt this report, just a few days before elections in the russian federation, very questionable ones. i think that in this document we are going to send a very positive message of hope to our friends, the russian opposition, people like the members of memorial, long-standing supporters of values, like many imprisoned dissidents, just to name mr navalny, but others as well. the high representative / vice president is right in saying that it is extremely important to keep our unity in the relationship to russia, to resolve unity and lack of naivety in the assessment of, in particular, new methods used by the very vicious regime in the relationship to all of us. hybrid methods are a kind of novelty and in this respect we have to collaborate very closely with organisations like nato in the assessment of all threats that come from the kremlin regime.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, eu-russia relations are at their lowest ebb ever, and parliament’s response is more, much more, of exactly the same thing – prevent russia from developing relations with eu countries individually, ratchet up nato, strengthen eu defences to deter russia, sanctions and international investigations and so on. this isn’t a serious, credible document. it’s actually a xenophobic rant. much of the information is false, misleading and one-sided. we surround russia with nato bases and we call them the aggressor. we support opposition groups and we accuse them of foreign interference. the european project is not being undermined and divided by russia, but by the rank hypocrisy that is characterised in this report, and the only beneficiaries of this nonsense are the arms industry made fat on the profits of its hysteria. so would people ever calm down and cop on. we need to work diplomatically with our neighbours for a peaceful resolution of differences. would you back off the russia phobia. the last thing we need is a cold war turning into a hot one. we absolutely reject the report in its entirety.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this fund to help the activities and territories most affected by the consequences of brexit is a good thing. during the discussions we had under the chairmanship of our rapporteur, mr pascal arimont, we made progress in this regulation to achieve some essential objectives. the first is to reserve a substantial share for fishing activities. this is an important issue for the maritime territories concerned, including in terms of conservation of the resource and the defence of coastal fishing. secondly, it has allowed solidarity to be concentrated on maritime border regions and on the activities actually affected, excluding financial activities. finally, it sends a message of european unity and solidarity to territories that will increasingly suffer from brexit, starting with ireland. the consequences of brexit are likely to escalate as the negative effects accumulate. the duty of solidarity is a requirement for the most affected europeans to be able to cope with its consequences. the crucial issue of the northern ireland protocol provided for in the treaty must be resolved. this requires that we show solidarity and determination. the establishment of this fund is part of this.
on behalf of the left group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the question is, who's in charge here? i think parliament sees this differently than you do. i would like to return the thanks of mr arimont and mrs ferreira. it was a really wonderful collaboration. brexit, yes, it has fundamentally changed the relationship between the uk and the eu. in ireland in particular, but also in germany, belgium, france and the netherlands, people are experiencing major changes in their private lives, in their workplaces, in smes, in fisheries and in agriculture. crossborder trade and mobility are restricted, as is cultural and educational cooperation. only half as many eu citizens can or want to study in the uk as before. the continuing political wrangling over customs controls and the faltering of the northern ireland protocol do not exactly contribute to greater confidence. not in politics, not in business, not in people. our new small brexit relief fund is certainly an important concrete help for those most directly affected by brexit in the eu. i don't think it's going to be enough to compensate for all the lost income and expense. it is clear that in tackling climate change in the corona crisis, we will also need our eu structural funds for long-term transitions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, brexit was a bad decision, with negative repercussions for the european union and very negative, very bad, repercussions for the united kingdom from a social, economic and political point of view. fortunately, the european union has timely adopted instruments that are now available to member states, namely the multiannual financial framework, nextgenerationeu and the recovery and resilience plans derived from it. adding to all this, we have an additional brexit adjustment reserve of about 5.5 billion euros. in good time, we have this extra help. now, commissioner, it is important that these resources are put to good use for the most affected regions and for small businesses. we have improved the commission's original proposal considerably. it is now essential that the member states do their part, that they make good use of these resources and that the european commission monitors them.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with this report the union will finally be able to support the territories, the sectors of activity and our citizens most exposed to the socioeconomic consequences of brexit. the very nature of this instrument should have brought us together from the beginning. i note, however, how much the path to equity in the allocation of funds has been fraught with obstacles. fortunately, the sense of responsibility of each and every one of us and our negotiating team has borne fruit. we have managed to exclude financial services from the reserve support while ensuring the involvement of local authorities and guaranteeing support for our fishermen. like the just transition fund for territories most exposed to carbon neutrality, the brexit adjustment reserve now offers us the opportunity to renew european solidarity towards those most affected by the united kingdom's departure from the union.
mr president, i very much welcome the agreement that has been finally reached. there is no doubt it was a long, tough process, but i think most sides can be happy. brexit isn’t a good idea. it is bringing about economic and social consequences across a lot of europe, but in my country, it is also bringing about potential political consequences. beyond that, i do welcome the fact that europe has showed solidarity in terms of the brexit adjustment reserve. but i do want to bring a particular emphasis to the fact that the irish fishing industry has been very badly damaged by brexit itself. we have to accept that ireland has 22% of the european waters, yet we catch 3% of the fish. so from that perspective, i do hope, when we have a review of the common fisheries policy, that the irish government advocates very strongly for the fishing communities throughout the whole island of ireland and for ensuring that we have burden-sharing and a concept of solidarity with communities and sectors that have been profoundly damaged because of brexit. so, if we do want to talk about solidarity in a real, meaningful way, let us show that commitment when we review the common fisheries policies and, as i said, have that burden-sharing where additional quotas can be made available to communities, and particularly communities in ireland that have been affected. so, i call on the irish government, i call on the commission and i call on the council and other member states – in showing that solidarity that has been shown very strongly throughout this whole process by my european colleagues – that we now take one step further, review the common fisheries policy and make sure that irish fishing communities have their fair share of fishing quota in waters.
mr president, madam commissioner, i say this because i believe we have a good agreement and i want, as chairman of the regi committee, to congratulate our rapporteur, pascal arimont, on the work he has done and the unity he has shown. i also want to thank you, commissioner, for your role and involvement in the negotiations. i also want to thank the portuguese presidency for its very constructive spirit in the trilogues. we have €5 billion now available to help the regions, businesses and economic sectors most affected by brexit. our discussions were intense, sometimes very difficult, but in the end we get a fairer fund with an allocation method that makes no losers and takes into account the main demands of the european parliament and in particular increased support for fishermen. cohesion policy has once again demonstrated its capacity to respond in times of crisis. we demonstrated this in the covid-19 crisis, we're doing it with brexit.
mr president, i would like to open my remarks by thanking the rapporteur, pascal arimont, for the diligent and more importantly balanced and fair approach to this very important file. the objective of the brexit adjustment reserve (bar) is of course to provide financial support to the most affected member states, regions and sectors to deal with the adverse consequences of brexit. it will also help communities and businesses cope with the increased costs of trade and lost income as a result of the united kingdom’s departure from the single market. ireland is the most impacted member state by brexit and rightly is the largest beneficiary owing to the sense of fairness with which the fund has been managed. brexit is about barriers and borders, and this is plain to see. as we continue down a strained path with our friends on the other side of the irish sea, it is important that we show solidarity with those most affected and to mitigate the economic consequences of brexit. solidarity is at the very core of this fund, as pascal pointed out, and it is also satisfying that payments can begin imminently. bar is the star of brexit.
mr president, commissioner ferreira, dear colleagues, the peace in northern ireland is a fragile peace due to brexit, and the lesson from europe is that the major challenges of our time are only solved by cooperation – cross-party, regional and international. the brexit adjustment reserve will help those hardest hit by the uk’s departure from the eu. as the greens efa group, we’re pleased with some of the additions to the final deal, such as an emphasis on support for sustainable small-scale fishers and the importance of consulting with local partners. and on this note, i am reminded that we must listen to communities in northern ireland, to the people of northern ireland, to youth and civil society and business owners in implementing the northern ireland protocol. the protocol ensures peace. dialogue and cooperation will ensure its implementation.
madam president, i welcome the overall content of the report, and trust the report in highlighting the deficiencies that are still clearly there in terms of oversight and information sharing between tax administrations across the european union. we do need to have that flow of information, either be it publicly or confidentially between the various administrations, to root out tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. but unfortunately, again, these reports are being used to go to the very heart of what the european union is about in terms of member state competences, and the issue of taxation is one that i feel very strongly about. there seems to be a continuous effort in this parliament – and by the commission as well at this stage – to undermine that sovereign concept of member states having unanimity and competency in the areas of taxation. i am for cooperation and for ensuring that we have a free flow of information, but at the same time, we have to insist that the treaties and the functioning of the european union are upheld and vindicated on a regular basis, and that is the obligation of the commission as well. but overall, i welcomed the overall trust in this report. unfortunately, at the end of the day, efforts are being made to put amendments to it to undermine the concept of unanimity and sovereignty in the areas of taxation.
mr president, commissioner, the covid pandemic has emphasised an epidemic that has existed for many years. the escalating numbers of women and girls who have and continue to experience gender-based violence is rampant. this is why this body of work is essential to ensure the commission fulfils their promise to every woman and girl in making gender-based violence a euro-crime. we also need to address perceptions and beliefs within our own communities, workplaces, schools, political institutions and systems that we sit in today, and our homes, about gender-based violence, in order to eliminate the horrific abuse women and girls experience each and every day. in 2014, it was reported one third of women in the eu have experienced physical and/or sexual violence, and close to 50 women lost their lives every week to domestic violence. that was in 2014. in 2021 this pandemic has only exacerbated the violence and abuse those women and girls experience every day. education plays a vital role to outline the importance of consent and respectful communication, both offline and online. it is vital that we introduce a culture of respect and equality for our women and girls throughout the world. combating gender-based violence is not just a woman’s rights campaign or an lgbitq+ campaign. this is a campaign for human rights. it is time for use to take strong, decisive action and ensure a safer future for our women and girls.
mr president, there will obviously be many negative social consequences because of the covid-19 pandemic – mental health issues in young and old, the loss of life and the inability to grieve is a very significant issue, family separation, education of our children in their formative years and the loss of those social contacts, and the pressure on our health services. of course, all of these issues will significantly challenge our public services and the key issue from my perspective will be that the european union and member states come together to ensure that they have the financial capacity over the next number of years to deal with this. i know that the european union has been extraordinarily ambitious in terms of its social contract with member states and its citizens in terms of the recovery and resilience fund, but we have to be very conscious that in the years ahead, circumstances could unfold whereby the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic are not felt for a number of years. we will have to have flexibility in ensuring that national governments have the ability to respond with the financial wherewithal. equally and as importantly, ursula von der leyen, the president of the commission, said today that we do not want ‘a pandemic of the unvaccinated’ and that is a significant issue that has to be addressed both within the european union and in some member states where there is a weak uptake of vaccines. but globally as well, we have to ensure from now on that we have a quality of access to vaccines globally to ensure that we are all safe together. so i would urge the commission, in both those areas, to address those particular issues in the short, medium and longer term.
the european union is often called upon to investigate and report on the situation in third countries. is rud an-dearfach is sin. however, it is often difficult for a member state to be able to investigate the conduct of a non-dhleathach agus eillitheach in one of the member states. we are deeply concerned that the united states is not prepared to take action against the bulgarian authorities. we must be diligent, diligent and efficient in our ability to maintain our own course. it's a shame that we're not in the united states to have a more powerful industry than we are. the laws of the european union may not itself be interpreted as having a more general application than those of the member states when they are not in conformity with the law of the member state concerned. the commission must use its powers more effectively in dealing with elected officials and must be able to protect the commission from any infringements.
madam president, are we experiencing human rights violations in cuba? i know. is there a shrinking space for freedom of expression in cuba? i know. are there any laws today that are liberticidal laws in cuba? i know. unfortunately, this is not the only country where we are experiencing this reality and we must of course condemn them. we must send the message to the cuban government that it is necessary to open up the spaces of freedom. and to do that, we need dialogue between the european union and cuba and not isolation of cuba from our relationship. but what i find surprising about this parliament is the double standard, the double language. and i'm going to compare two situations, the one in cuba and the one in vietnam. do you think vietnam is a free country? is not vietnam run by a communist government which is a dictatorial regime? yes, and yet the right wing of this parliament has given vietnam a free trade agreement to help that country get out of a dictatorship and the solution you propose for cuba is to close the relationship with cuba. and so this double language on the question of human rights is unacceptable. let's be consistent here. let's stand up for human rights, whether it's in vietnam or whether it's in cuba, whether it's (inaudible) or whether it's in saudi arabia, human rights are universal and it doesn't depend on the continent you're on.
madam president, cuba is looking into the abyss. our best contribution is to denounce the obvious, serious and repeated violations of human rights that the díaz-canel government is leading and to promote active solidarity with the victims of this wave of repression. the answer lies in the values and instruments of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and cuba, in the sanction possibilities offered by the magnitsky act and in the cooperation and support to the un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders and her possibilities of action in this escalation. it's time to denounce, but it's also time to act. the presence of un and eu observers on the ground is mandatory, as is the immediate meeting of the joint committee for the eu-cuba cooperation agreement in cases of special urgency concerning violations of fundamental rights. we must bring to the situation what it needs most: sanity, dialogue, recognition of the reality of cuban civil society and its opposition movements and the immediate cessation of repression because, at this moment, the attitude of the island's authorities puts at risk the continuity of this instrument of cooperation and dialogue and the obvious benefits it implies for cuban citizens.
madam president, the latest resolution represents more barefaced interference in the internal affairs of the sovereign state of cuba. in 1990, a resolution was passed by the european parliament condemning operation gladio and demanding a full investigation into this covert operation. the calls were ignored by both nato and the us. gladio is a 40-year-long operation that subverted leftist movements the world over. it involved the cia and other eu intelligence agencies working hand-in-hand with the sicilian and turkish mafias, the vatican, former nazis and fascists that were linked to massacres, torture, coups d’état and other terrorist operations in several countries of western europe, most famously the assassinated italian prime minister, aldo moro. the fight against communism was, and is, a right-wing alliance. it is corrupt, extremist, repressive and is drenched in blood. the right-wing forces in the european parliament calling for the continuation of sanctions or the overthrow of the cuban revolution, or the condemning of other leftist governments, are a continuation of the legacy of operation gladio. the eu must stop anti-democratic meddling in the affairs of other sovereign nations and must learn from our past crimes in this respect. the eu should stand up to us aggression towards cuba and their illegal sanctions, which violate the un charter. operation gladio should be fully investigated so we can show the full extent of the anti-democratic terrorism that nato members engage in against our own citizens and sovereign nations around the world. get real!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, in 2015 the united nations member states adopted the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which aims to leave no one behind, increasing global development and the quality of life of citizens. i would stress the commitment of the european parliament to scrutinize the external dimension of european union policies relating to combating biodiversity loss in developing countries. this report expresses a commitment to the successful implementation of the 2030 agenda. this commitment also meant that 10% of the european resources to be invested in the next decade, under the new generation of funds, were to be allocated to the promotion and protection of biodiversity. the direct dependence on the subsistence of biological diversity of some 70% of the world's poor population requires a holistic and in-depth approach to policies with direct interference in nature and the lives of the most needy and dependent. i welcome the reference in this report to the importance of protecting indigenous peoples and local communities, the primary custodians of biodiversity, and of investing in policies that guarantee food sovereignty, whether through fisheries, grazing or agriculture, and protecting the areas of the globe most vulnerable to deforestation and climate change. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the future of mankind also depends on us. let us start now to guarantee it for future generations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, throughout our planet, biodiversity is interlinked, interconnected and interrelated. for nature and humanity to survive and thrive together and for the sustainable development goals to be achieved, the current trends in biodiversity loss must be reversed. until this happens, we’re on the back foot around the challenges of poverty and hunger – challenges that are magnified in the world’s poorest regions. we need systemic change and, vitally, an end to practices that prop up and worsen impacts. in the eighth environment action programme, for example, we call for an end to harmful subsidies. this is crucial. we need action on local and indigenous empowerment around, for example, protecting ocean biodiversity in a way that respects human rights. last week’s annulment of a fisheries agreement with morocco due to occupation and oppression of western sahara is the type of initiative we in the eu should be leading out on. biodiversity is the bedrock of many sdgs, and its loss is undermining progress. it’s time to reverse the trend globally.
mr president, the shocking stories from around the world, including in all our member states, remind us yet again that they are the starkest of reminders that we have not dealt with this issue of violence against women and it remains an absolute pandemic around our world. i believe that the commission’s proposal to tackle gender-based violence, due later this year, cannot come soon enough. domestic violence remains a total scourge in our society, a 30% increase during covid. while the immediate effects of intimate partner violence are clear – deaths, usually of women, the need for emergency shelter and support to escape a violent household – less discussed aspects include judicial proceedings and custody agreements where children are concerned, and the linkage between the granting of custody rights and domestic violence. this report shines a light on that issue. what is crucial is that the voice of the child must be at the centre of proceedings, their well-being is paramount. children who witness violence suffer, we know that, and it is imperative that our judicial proceedings and their consequences do not re-traumatise them. i call on the commission to include judicial proceedings within the member states, of all types, including both criminal and civil, within their proposal. let’s strive again to make intimate partner violence and gender-based violence history.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the statistics are staggering: nearly 23 000 people die in road accidents every year in europe. unfortunately, it has not improved much in the last few years, and behind these numbers are broken human destinies and shattered dreams. this is an unacceptable and unnecessary human cost of mobility. with colleagues from the transport committee, we have been working on the recommendations for the european union road safety framework to achieve the zero fatality target, driven by the conviction that we need to change this statistic. our proposals take account of the analysis that only 8% of deaths occur on motorways and a full 54% on secondary roads in rural areas. they are based on three pillars: first, safer vehicles; second, safer roads; and, of course, third, improved emergency services. we need intensive and collaborative efforts, the application of research and innovation, the harmonisation of national approaches to road safety, stricter measures and zero tolerance for drunk driving, with a single and clear idea of compliance with the rules and the protection of the life and health of all road transport operators. the improvement of emergency infrastructure, including through the provision of air medical services in remote mountain areas, is also important.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, last friday, in mondercange, a 91-year old woman was hit by a lorry on a zebra crossing. she died from her injuries. she is one of around 23 000 people still dying every year on eu roads, including many children. furthermore, 120 000 also get seriously injured. this is not acceptable! the eu has to step up its action to reduce deaths and serious injuries. speeding is a factor in a third of all fatal road crashes. therefore, we call for safe speed limits on all roads, and especially for 30 km per hour as a default speed in residential areas. it is also key to promote lighter and smaller cars, which are much safer for all road users. we also call for urban space to be redesigned, putting people and public transport at the centre and promoting active mobility with safe infrastructure for those walking and cycling because, when it comes to mobility, safety and sustainability go hand in hand.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the slowdown in road safety improvements in the european union in recent years is a clear signal that it is high time to review existing rules. the goal of vision zero is ambitious, so if we really want to achieve it, we have to act on many fronts. i am pleased that we have been able to produce a report in which the most important issues, such as zero tolerance for drunk driving, the need to change speed limits, the safety of vulnerable road users and the concern for infrastructure safety, have been complemented by a number of necessary but less obvious solutions. i am referring to the ecr group's proposals to introduce incentives to buy the safest cars, to create a platform for exchanging information with third countries on road traffic offences, to introduce the obligation to form life corridors in national road codes and to introduce a more detailed system for reporting accident victims. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for including in the document our amendment on access to information on the safety parameters of systems for the carriage of children by road. increasing public awareness is undoubtedly our ally in the fight to improve road safety, so we should not put any barriers to access to such vital data. i would like to thank you again for your cooperation in this report and i hope that the solutions proposed in it will be an incentive to get back on track... (the president cut the speaker off)
for the left. mr president, commissioner, first of all, let me thank mrs kountoura for her excellent motion for a resolution on the crucial issue of road safety. every year, some 22 700 people are still killed on european union roads and some 120 000 are seriously injured. i therefore welcome the fact that eu countries are confirming their long-term strategic goal of achieving almost zero deaths and zero serious injuries on eu roads by 2050. in this vision of zero road casualties, there is a debate about the safety of road infrastructure, modern technologies, brands, etc. however, i believe that member states should also support those drivers who want to improve. the eu's competition policy is based on the principle of equal treatment of all road users, and is designed to ensure that road users are not discriminated against. these are training bases, centres for drivers with high social added value, centres for driver experience, which are already perceived by a wide range of actors. i believe that member states should support these activities, as the experience gained from these test sites can lead to the right decision when our lives are at the crossroads between life and death.
mr. chairman, colleagues, i was 11 years old when my family was able to save up money for a car for the first time. of course, it was second-hand. of course, it was from germany, as that was the only option for personal transportation. it was similar in the families of my peers, it's similar now, and it's in more countries in the european union than you might think. we've often said that human life has no value. but cars do, and oftentimes, they're too much for too many people. often the only option for personal transportation is to have a second-hand car, and that's why i want to talk about a scam that has a colossal scale. according to independent reports, 50% of second-hand cars have a manipulated mileage every second. look around next time you're out on the street. i proposed to the european commission a pilot project a while ago that tackles exactly this fraud - it was approved and it was funded. and yet there are still countries that don't share the actual mileage of their cars: the one that is collected during the annual technical inspections, and i don't understand why. there's no reason for that. when you sell a car for a million miles and say it's for 100 grand, you're not just stealing money from the most vulnerable, you're stealing safety from all of us. let's put an end to this, let all the countries join this pilot project, let's put an end to this fraud and finally at least one of the factors for many of the accidents in the european union be eliminated.
mr president, ‘one false move’ was a study of children’s independent spatial mobility, published by mayer hillman and others almost 30 years ago. mayer hillman is one of my heroes, and in a week in which he celebrates his 90th birthday, it’s worth recalling his research on road safety from 1990. he said then that children’s independent spatial mobility was being eroded by dangerously speeding cars. that campaign, ‘one false move’, could now be described as victim blaming, and it continues to be deeply embedded in the thinking of road safety organisations who continue to disproportionately insist on high—vis clothing, helmets and flashing lights for pedestrians and cyclists. these well-meaning messages are abnormalising what should be the normal and sustainable behaviour of walking and cycling, or indeed playing in the street. that’s why we must lower speed limits, insist on the 30 km per hour limit in residential areas and give children the ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the relationship with the european union is measured in washington by whether the eu is actively involved in the containment strategy against its main rival china, especially in the economic sphere. katherine tai detailed the tactics yesterday. they don't want to cancel the phase one trade deal. they want to ask china to pay for it. it claims china has failed to deliver opening-up reforms, and threatens to impose new punitive tariffs to protect american jobs. i think it is good to put workers at the centre of trade policy, but please do not just put workers at the centre of trade policy. this is the case for all parties involved, including the steel industry in germany, the eu and beyond, which is in need of a green energy transition. we shouldn't be involved in cockfights like this. the global challenges are much more fundamental. there is little time left to stop global warming caused by climate change. we also have nine years left to reach the un sustainable development goals for all countries on earth. the fight against poverty, the protection of the environment, universal access to health and education, disarmament and peace should be the common goals of our partnership with the united states. but even together, the eu and the us cannot achieve these goals without attracting additional partners. cooperation is necessary, including with china. here begins the new narrative: instead of confrontation, cooperation, instead of each first synergies and together restore trust and set rules also active in the wto.
mr president it's been a year since joe biden became president of the united states. i hope that those who thought that with trump's removal everything would be fine, america would seek the favor of europe, will wake up. afghanistan, backlog of tariffs, aukus: let's just say that "america first" is always the guiding principle overseas. i wouldn't even blame them for that. we should be operating on a 'europe first' basis and working alongside our most important ally. america is a master at selling its own interests as a global good. a prime example is the tax treaty enforced in the oecd. the digital tax was kicked out of the us, so more tech companies are getting away with it. and the global corporate minimum tax is so that america can raise taxes at home and drag the world along with it without being disadvantaged. and because of eu law, we should have a more stringent corporate tax policy on the continent than globally. europe has no interest in this. the leaders of the union must wake up, let fair tax competition prevail, and not overburden the companies that actually produce. this would help the union's competitiveness.
mr president, mr borrell, we are debating and voting in this plenary session of the european parliament on nothing less than a very long resolution on relations between the european union and the united states. i shall concentrate - since they are not what they were, let us not be mistaken, and in the global disorder we are coming from they will hardly be again soon - on those issues which are most important to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs which i chair: the outstanding problems. one, a new data transfer agreement after the reversals of the court of justice's judgments in the schrems case, urgently. another is the need to complete visa reciprocity between the united states and the european union. because, after poland and soon croatia have been incorporated, the situations of romania, bulgaria and cyprus are still pending. but on the positive side, we certainly have a very strong partnership on human rights. and there is much we have to do in the fight against evils that we must confront together: racism and cybercrime; even with the differences we have on the question of the international criminal court. but there is also, of course, a challenge in dealing with hybrid threats and foreign interference in democratic processes: china and russia; in addition, of course, to the common effort, within the framework of the european union and the organization for security and cooperation in europe, to fight for the defence of human rights and democracy.
mr president, i say the high representative: i would like to take this occasion to welcome the technology and trade council of last week. the united states and europe must work together if we want an open and free digital future. the digital world rests on the eu and us creating common digital policies. this is about our security, our competitiveness and, most importantly, it is about protecting basic fundamental freedoms online. i don’t want a digital europe to be a walled garden. if digital sovereignty or strategic autonomy means a closed and isolated europe, we will be harming our citizens, not helping them. for all the latest disagreements, the best ally that we have in digital freedom is the united states. if we turn away from this alliance, i ask us, who are we turning to?
mr president, the relations between the united states and the countries of europe are under threat, and this is because we have an eu that no longer knows its place in the geopolitical arena. we have a european commission seeking what it calls ‘strategic autonomy’. we have a commission president who recently proclaimed her empire, stating european military forces would be part of the solution, undermining our nato alliance and the transatlantic partnership. we have a commission that speaks on behalf of france when they, not us, they lose a submarine deal, compromising the relations of all eu member states. and we have a european parliament that believes, according to this report, should have an opinion on internal us affairs such as gun control, the us border wall, police violence, etc. when will the eu recognise it as part of the problem, not the solution?
mr president, when we talk about us shared values and common bonds, let’s remember that this is a country which is ruthlessly pursuing an espionage case against julian assange for publishing information about us war crimes in afghanistan and iraq, including attempts to kidnap and kill him. a country that plots regime change and imposes illegal sanctions that kill in every corner of the globe. but of course the narrative here is that the only choices are that we either keep sucking up to us power, as it faces off against china and russia, or we cut the apron strings, dump billions of euros into military budgets and go it alone with an eu army. of course, both of these choices are nonsense. the century of american and european supremacy is over. we live in a different multipolar world that’s more interconnected and interdependent than ever before. the main challenge is climate change. getting through it will require cooperation, not competition. europe will either extract itself from reducing us influence and develop an independent, peaceful role or face further irrelevance.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to speak on this particular issue and i point out that there are strong historical bonds between many european nations and the united states of america, so the transatlantic alliance is significant and very important for many reasons. of course, we should also be mindful of the fact that we do not always agree. ireland is a small nation, it doesn’t always agree with the foreign policy of the united states of america, and it might also not agree with foreign policy of member states within the european union. the areas on which we can agree collectively would be the whole area of climate change and the need to address that with the resources of the european union and the united states of america, ensuring that other large players, like china, russia, india and other trading blocs come together to ensure that the climate change agenda is kept very much to the fore, and ensuring that there is real and significant action on it to ensure that citizens globally can benefit from a healthy environment in the time ahead. to be very clear: the transatlantic alliance is important, but it must be refocused not on areas of defence, but on areas of climate change and humanitarian aid to poorer regions of the world as well.
mr president, what is the most powerful weapon that dictators and autocrats have? it is not the tear gas they use or the water cannons, or even the machine guns of their brutal police forces. it is oblivion. people like lukashenko want us to stop caring. they want us after months and months and months to turn a blind eye, to look away and not look at what is happening in belarus anymore. maria kolesnikova was illegally detained more than a year ago. last month, she was illegally convicted, once again, to 11 years in prison. maria is 39 years old. if this madness is not going to be stopped, she’s going to be 50 by the time that this sentence is over, and even if our message today cannot reach her directly right now, as she is in prison, let us make sure that it’s going to reach lukashenko. this parliament will not stop caring. this parliament is not going to look away, and this parliament is not going to forget what has happened in belarus. we will continue to stand in solidarity with the democratic opposition in belarus.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i just wanted to remind you that the european parliament has already adopted three resolutions on the situation in belarus, two last year and one this year. the union has imposed sanctions on belarus in four packages, affecting 166 individuals and 15 entities. nevertheless, lukashenko, unfazed by the harsh sanctions, suppressed the resistance of the public. he is the clear winner of this conflict. his protector putin will be supplied with billions of euros from germany, not just from germany. yesterday it was announced that nord stream 2 has been filled with gas and to stop this investment would be a real sanction. unfortunately, we couldn't afford to do that. so there will be funds for a hybrid action on the border of belarus with lithuania and poland. and we can expect a repeat of 2015.
mr president, the only reason we’re having this debate is because nato has targeted belarus for regime change. if the eu cared about human rights, we’d be addressing the plight of refugees and migrants at our borders and police brutality in places like france, germany and spain. tikhanovskaya is a nato tool: the belarusian guaidó. she has atlantic council advisers and is close to the likes of the centre for european policy analysis, which is bankrolled by lockheed martin, boeing, raytheon, chevron and the us department of defense. and much like guaidó, tikhanovskaya has little popularity. according to polling conducted by england’s chatham house, no less, only 4% of belarusians believe she’d make a good president, while 23 percent prefer lukashenko, and viktar babaryka is on 25 percent. the protests didn’t start unaided. the cia caught out: the national endowment for democracy admitted to having their people on the ground. this interference should stop. it’s a direct violation of article 2 of the un charter.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, it looks like the deal between afwerki and abiy ahmed, which won abiy the nobel prize, was a war deal to crush tigray. we now know that eritrean defence forces, ethnic amhara irregulars and the ethiopian national defence forces have carried out dozens of brutal massacres in tigray. not only have abiy’s decisions caused immense human suffering and death, he appears to have lost territory to eritrea and the advances of tigray defence forces are now a serious threat to his government. eritrea’s afwerki looks like the only winner. the way out of this conflict is through mediation, not foreign intervention. the last thing that ethiopia needs is boots on the ground from the us and its allies. but that mediation must have credibility, it must be impartial and it should be for the african countries to sort it out. but neither the african union proposal of moussa faki mahamat, nor his high representative general obasanjo, are a credible start. the eu should encourage the african union to look again and come up with the necessary impartial approach and structure for mediation to work.
madam president, commissioner, the crisis that the pandemic has produced in the tourism sector has accelerated another reflection that was already underway: sustainability must be one of the key factors in the design and delivery of tourism services. digitalisation and the use of new technologies and innovation processes should improve issues of great impact on the tourism sector: the design of the offer, the incorporation of new operators, the improvement of the position of local actors in the value chain, the prevention of saturation, the energy efficiency of buildings, the treatment of waste, the decarbonisation of mobility and training in line with these challenges are some of them. in short, the nextgenerationeu philosophy for a new generation of tourism. so i ask you: will there be funds from the recovery and resilience facility in a specific plan for the european tourism sector? are there plans to accelerate the growth of users of this new generation of tourism?
madam president, as the tourist season draws to a close, i want to focus on the position of workers in the international travel sector, particularly airline and airport staff, because the truth is we’ve seen a recovery of sorts – dramatic increases in numbers transiting through airports, companies like wizz air and ryanair bragging that they’re back to normal – and yet the so-called flag carriers and former state companies (represented in ireland by the dublin airport authority and aer lingus) are using the crisis to unleash a reign of terror, a race to the bottom, and to stand conditions that were fought for over decades on their heads. these companies are demanding everything – ending demarcation, pay freezes until 2025, redundancies being replaced by yellow-pack jobs. if it’s not accepted – and they haven’t been by over 80% of the workforce – they’re being bullied by the imposition of unilateral cuts and threatened outsourcing. these companies are in receipt of tens of millions of public funds. where is the commission protecting european workers? where is the socially responsible recovery that is so desperately needed?
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to reform the law to make digital platforms like facebook and twitter responsible for the content they disseminate? yes, but only if we are reasonable. yes, digital platforms must be held accountable when the content they broadcast constitutes specific and clearly defined offences. this is the case with incitement to terrorism. the regulation we adopted on 28 april rightly obliges them to withdraw incitement to terrorism within one hour of receiving a withdrawal order from the competent national authority. a common sense precaution is thus taken to avoid the kind of attacks that took the life of samuel paty. another specific crime to be tackled is online harassment, which is particularly dangerous as it often involves minors. the legislation on digital services, on which the committee on legal affairs voted on 30 september, should make it possible to deal with this. i am much more cautious when i hear that people want to censor platforms under the pretext of fighting against disinformation. i think you're going to have a hard time just fighting off large-scale cyberattacks. insensibly, you will slip into intolerance, by hindering the debate of ideas in the name of an official truth, even though the european court of human rights emphasizes that freedom of expression also applies, and perhaps above all, to ideas that offend, shock or worry. i hope therefore that the european parliament will be able to keep the spirit of the measure. nothing would be more sad than to see it suffer the fate of the french parliament, whose avia law on alleged hate speech was censored by the constitutional council for violating freedom of expression. rather than trying to suppress disinformation, i suggest that states develop the education and critical thinking of their citizens, so that they can sort out the information themselves.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, disinformation is, of course, a social ill, but it’s not new. for years, we’ve had billionaire-owned tabloids peddling lies, and nobody particularly cared about this. so if there is a threat to our societies, it’s certainly not from online disinformation, and it’s not from abroad. it’s actually from right here in the creeping authoritarianism and intolerance of the political mainstream. we see this in the securitised language in the question, which i have to say is very dangerous. the question talks about social media platforms facilitating espionage. i mean, seriously, when we say this, it’s actually an abuse of language. is it any wonder, then, that we have the scandal of journalists like algirdas paleckis being prosecuted for espionage in lithuania without a shred of evidence and without a chance to meet his accusers? and we’ve never even mentioned his name in here. we have julian assange facing 175 years in a maximum security prison for espionage, but actually for revealing us war crimes, and we say nothing. we claim to be defending democracy, but the question calls for sanctions. aren’t we forgetting the two distinguished guests who came before the foreign interference committee and warned us against this, who warned us about the potential illegality of such a move? in actual fact, sanctions are an instrument of international law. they should only be used within the framework of the united nations in order to protect human rights.
madam president, don’t confuse the super profits of oil and gas companies and the political manoeuvring of vladimir putin and gazprom with the rise in energy prices. if we continue to rely on gas, we will continue to be held hostage by putin’s russia. some blame the rise in gas prices on the emissions trading scheme. the reality is, yes, ets prices have gone up, but this only accounts for a small fraction of the price increase. meanwhile, the cost of renewables continues to fall. that’s good news for the eu energy security, and it’s good news for the consumer as well. the quicker we wean ourselves off insecure global supply chains, the better. high fossil fuel prices are a wake—up call, a call for action as we prepare to revise the energy performance of buildings directive. so let’s tackle energy poverty by insulating homes, creating jobs and reducing emissions. the longer we delay, the higher the cost.
madam president, the pandora papers leak had 12 million documents, exposing quite clearly that there is continual tax evasion, money laundering of ill—gotten gains. and it is at the highest levels, and unfortunately, we have situations where we have prime ministers that sit on the council, who are now being identified as people who are using letterbox companies and other nefarious means to avoid paying tax. there is no doubt that we have to accept that at the highest levels in politics across europe and across the globe, people are engaging in this ill—gotten activity. of course, that delays the capacity of the council, the commission and even this parliament in trying to bring forward legislative proposals that will weed out this particular activity. we have to ensure that our tax authorities cooperate at a greater level than heretofore. if anything comes from the pandora papers leak, it shows that at the highest level of politics, there is illegal activity in terms of tax evasion, and our tax authorities must cooperate to ensure that we can root this out.
it is a shame that this parliament has not learned the lessons it should have. for the banks, before the 2008 crisis, it had to be always more, always bigger and always further. and stopping that was -- i thought -- the lesson we learned from the financial crisis. and of course the question was also whether citizens and businesses should be protected against the mismanagement and possible bankruptcy of banks. yes, of course, i'm sure. our people simply do not have the time or the resources to arm themselves against it individually. however, is the pan-european banking union a good solution? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the banking union. thirteen years after the financial crisis, there are still no walls or firewalls between the savings banks and the investment banks. we still risk financial crises because banks are too big, they take too much risk and they invest more in each other's products than they invest in the real economy. this resolution even calls for scaling up with even larger and cross-border banks, with all the possible disastrous domino effects of this. have we learned nothing from this crisis? it was small and medium-sized banks that kept europe going. of course, the money of the people in bank accounts must be protected, especially in a gigantic debt economy like the one the ecb has today. but a single deposit guarantee for the entire euro area simply does not take into account the different risks in countries, which means that some countries need more protection and others less. it also deprives the sinners of an essential element of a stable financial environment, namely, personal responsibility. the supervision of banks and guarantees should therefore remain national competence. and finally, there can be no half-hearted talk or writing in this parliament about being green and climate neutral. the banking union must therefore also support the climate religion in this report. this means that since the taxonomy regulation was adopted, european bureaucrats will be at the helm of our banks and they will decide what investments are allowed and what are not. such a state-led economy may be the dream of many open or hidden communists in this hemisphere, but it is certainly not the ideal of the founders of european cooperation. so certainly not from us, from the patriotic forces in europe.
madam president, i would like to thank danuta hübner and the shadows for an excellent report. ik zal doorgaan in het nederlands, want ik wil graag toch een punt maken dat voor verdere discussie van belang blijft, want na de financiële crisis zeiden we: dit nooit meer. we wilden niet meer opdraaien voor de riskante weddenschappen van bankiers, bankiers die het risico namen met het idee “bij kop win ik en bij munt verlies jij”. en toch laten we dat opnieuw gebeuren. banken nemen wederom buitensporige risico's omdat ze weten dat ze ermee wegkomen. ze nemen risico's, dit keer niet alleen met ons geld, maar ook met onze planeet. banken investeren volop in fossiele brandstoffen en laten ons het puin ruimen. en als het puin geruimd is en een transitie geslaagd is, dan zullen hun investeringen opeens niets meer waard blijken. en dan mogen wij de rekening oppakken en wederom omvallende banken steunen. de regels van de bankenunie moeten worden herschreven met als uitgangspunt: stabiliteit en duurzaamheid zijn twee kanten van dezelfde medaille. speciaal voor mijnheer annemans.
madam president, the inertia in developing the banking union to its logical end has made the lack of crisis news from the european banking sector sound like good news. yet, european banks have been consistently underperforming relative to their non—european competitors for too long. their profitability has not been too good. generally, the european banking system is still considered too fractured to be able to compete effectively in the long term on global markets. the green deal, digitalisation and extensive new anti—money laundering requirements have been forcing some european banks to keep back from new and established business arrangements. in a way, the massive financial interventions of governments and the european central bank during the covid—19 pandemic provided good scope for masking fundamental problems. however, they also enabled banks to survive, though many, especially at the periphery, saw their returns on equity (roes) go negative. clearly, the structure of european banking will top the agenda of the day someday, not so far away. it will be a painful process, also because banking union has been shelved for far too long for political reasons that will, in future, appear to be paltry.
madam president, commissioner, the truth is that after years of words and commitments, the banking union is still an unfinished story today. it is true that the progress made has already enabled the financial system to respond better to this crisis than to the previous one, with a new system of supervision by the european central bank, the new regulatory framework and the measures to control bad credit. it is also certain that the agreement on the reform of the european stability mechanism, signed during the portuguese presidency, will allow the single resolution fund to finally be operational in 2022 and contribute to the stability of the financial system. but it is precisely because there has been this reduction in risk that it is time for greater risk sharing, creating the european deposit insurance scheme, which is an essential pillar of the banking union. that is why this parliament once again sends a clear message to the commission and to the governments in the council: do not put off until tomorrow what you can and must do today. it is time to complete the banking union and create the european deposit insurance scheme.
mr president, commissioner, the other day someone asked me: what does a banking union do for me, just as a hardworking dutchman? a simple question, but a very good one. and the reason for this banking union actually goes back ten years, when the financial system was really on the verge of collapse and banks had to be bailed out with huge amounts of taxpayers' money. what's the problem? national banks that were too intertwined with their governments. and the result? a banking crisis and a debt crisis. and who was the worst part of that? exactly, for that taxpayer. and it is to protect that taxpayer that we have created this banking union, which is supposed to ensure that your savings and your mortgage are safe, and that the common man does not turn to the banks for their malfeasance. as vvd, we believe it is important that the banking system is stable, that savings remain safe in your account, and that we ensure that banks do not take risks that they simply cannot bear, in order to prevent a new banking crisis. luckily, there's a lot of good stuff going on. the banking system has become much more stable and has even been able to play a very important role during the coronavirus crisis by keeping the lending to the real economy going. but the banking union is far from complete. a european deposit guarantee scheme would be the final piece of what is called a perfect banking union. but it is not without reason that such a common guarantee system is a very hot iron. it is a must that banks reduce their risks. in this way they not only keep themselves safe but also avoid jeopardizing european solidarity. and i am very pleased with this report which recognises this and which also sends a clear message to the commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european investment bank. because that is what is so incredibly important, that what has been built by our hard-working dutch and european: this is the european economy.
thank you very much, representative nagtegaal. you speak with a fantastically slow and clear voice. i wish more of this kind of quiet talk would be followed around here. i'm sure the interpreters will appreciate it, too.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to acknowledge the work not only of our rapporteur, but also the shadow rapporteurs and everyone who contributed to this debate. there were many opinions, but i heard a very strong call for advancement on banking union; i appreciate that message and i take it with me. i want to acknowledge, as many of you have, that the banks were stronger going into this crisis because of the work you did, as regulators and legislators, in putting in place stronger capital requirements. this is, therefore, a positive development from covid, but we have not finished the work. we need to understand that, despite the naysayers, there are big benefits from completing banking union. it will help financial firms adjust business models and facilitate consolidation across borders without threatening financial stability. it will also help the banking sector address challenges to the existing banking model and boost competitiveness. banking union will support efforts to finance the green and digital transitions. it will also help handle a challenging macroeconomic environment, an ageing society, high levels of debt and low interest. it will ensure that our safety nets are effective and enough funding is available for banks across the banking union in times of crisis. last, but not least, it will benefit european citizens, because depositor confidence is a public good that we have a responsibility to protect. i note the challenge to agree on everything about banking union by the end of this year, but we do urgently need to set things in motion. i would encourage the european parliament to remain ambitious and to continue working on these files. progress will only be possible if parliament plays its full role as co-legislator. i also want to say that the issue of climate change was mentioned in some of the contributions, and climate change is a risk to financial stability unless it is properly accounted for. i repeat that the commission stands ready to support work to advance banking union – as well as capital markets union – and ultimately the goal is a strong and resilient economic and monetary union. it is within sight, but we have work to do. these will underpin a strong and resilient european economy, laying the necessary foundations to face other challenges.
this conversation is over. the amendments will be voted on today and the final vote will be taken tomorrow. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the completion of the banking union should be completed by this parliamentary term. although still under construction, it has been boosted by the economic situation shaken by the coronavirus pandemic. in addition to completing the banking union, we need a european deposit guarantee scheme, the establishment of which remains one of the main objectives. we are still missing three important elements for stability. first, we need a proper firewall between venture capital and basic banking. secondly, the principles of sustainable finance and environmental indicators need to be incorporated into the banks' operations and lending. thirdly, we need to look at regulation, that is, how we guide new types of innovation such as peer-to-peer lending and crowdfunding so that they do not pose risks to retail investors and consumers. in the long term, a common deposit guarantee would bring confidence to the money market and reduce the link between banks and governments. the umbilical cord of banks to government bonds must be broken so that no future banking crisis falls on taxpayers.
we now move on to the second vote of the day. we shall vote on the items on today's agenda and the vote will be taken at 8.00 p.m. to 9.45 p.m. the voting procedure is the same as in previous elections. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i now declare the second ballot to be admissible. you can vote until 9:45 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m. the voting is open. have a good night! (the sitting was suspended at 8.02 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the council's 'lack of will on the part of the council to move forward with the ecbm' by younous omarjee, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000061/2021) (b9-0037/2021).
the author's deputy. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! in may 2018, as part of a package of four legislative proposals establishing a post-2020 cohesion policy framework, the european commission published a draft regulation on a mechanism to remove legal and administrative barriers in a cross-border context. this regulation provides for the establishment of a voluntary mechanism to remove legal obstacles in border regions, focusing on the land borders of the european union at nuts 3 level and covering joint infrastructure projects or services in the cross-border region. this mechanism would, inter alia, allow the law of a neighbouring member state to be applied in a member state in a cross-border region if the law of the former constituted a legal obstacle to the implementation of a joint project. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's macro-financial assistance is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the financial markets and the stability of the financial system. i would like to stress that in its position parliament proposed that the decision to apply the european crossborder mechanism should be taken on a case-by-case basis for each joint project, rather than for the whole crossborder region as proposed by the commission. in addition, we have also extended the scope of the mechanism to all border regions of the european union and proposed the creation of national crossborder coordination points. in february 2019, the european parliament adopted its position at first reading and in october of the same year the regi committee decided to open interinstitutional negotiations. on the basis of the decision of the conference of presidents of 16 october 2019, the european parliament decided to continue work on this document during the current term of office. that position remains in place. on 2 march 2020, the council's legal service issued a legal opinion on the proposal, covering the choice of legal basis for the proposal's compatibility with the treaties and the choice of legal instrument and its voluntary nature, which was presented at the working meeting on structural actions. despite the preliminary discussions on this legal opinion and the follow-up, the structural action working group decided on 10 may that the council would not continue work on this proposal. i must admit that this decision by the council to actually complete the work on the establishment of a european crossborder mechanism is both sad and incomprehensible to me and to the whole regi committee. the draft regulation in question was presented as a result of the efforts of the luxembourg presidency of the council. we have been through many difficult negotiations in this chamber, in which finding a compromise has sometimes been a challenge, but all these negotiations so far have had a common denominator, which is a mutual willingness to dialogue. i am deeply saddened that in this case the council does not even want to sit down to the negotiating table. the essence of the european union's work is to discuss and find common solutions acceptable to all parties. in this case, it was the other way around and instead of presenting its case in joint negotiations and trying to find a compromise solution, the council decided to block those negotiations. i would therefore like to ask when the council will unblock the legislative process on this mechanism and what was the exact reason for its decision to actually block it? has the council been informed of the analyses and studies clearly indicating the negative consequences of not adopting the proposed regulation and what does the council propose as an alternative to this instrument to address cross-border problems? i believe that the european border mechanism is the solution that will remove unjustified administrative barriers and facilitate the implementation of projects that will bring real daily benefits to the people of the border regions. the mechanism could be a tangible example of the european union's action close to the citizen. i would also like to recall that it is estimated that the implementation of the regulation could help to overcome at least 30% and possibly even 50% of the identified obstacles to crossborder cooperation. the european parliament remains ready to negotiate and open to a variety of possible solutions. that is why i am calling on the council to come to the negotiating table and discuss this. i am confident that, even if it is not easy, we will eventually find an effective solution that our regions are waiting for.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is very important to be here today to discuss with you this very sensitive and important topic. territorial cooperation, the so-called interreg, is one of the two goals of the cohesion policy, alongside investment in growth and jobs. since 1989, interreg has been supporting joint action between member states or between member states and countries outside the eu. it has proved to be very successful in terms of building up trustful relationships between countries and regions, and also among citizens living on different sides of a border. over the last three years, the co-legislators have worked very hard to put together the regulation on interreg for the 2021-2027 period which was adopted recently. i’m sure the new regulatory framework will continue to pave the way towards deeper european integration, and i’m very thankful to you for this, especially to mr arimont and mr omarjee. although a lot has been done in the field of territorial cooperation, some challenges persist. in the case of cross-border cooperation, legal and administrative obstacles to build up joint projects around internal borders of the eu are a fact. they exist and we cannot deny it. several eu multilateral and bilateral tools for cross-border cooperation are already available, for example the european grouping for territorial cooperation, but they cannot solve all the challenges we encounter on the ground. in that sense, when back in 2018, the commission presented a legislative proposal for a mechanism to resolve legal and administrative obstacles in a cross-border context, the so-called ecbm (european cross-border mechanism), the council welcomed it and examined it carefully. the commission proposal entailed many legal questions as it directly touched upon the issue of national sovereignty and the relationship between the legal orders of the member states. this is why council asked its legal service to examine the ecbm proposal, to assess the choice of the legal basis, the compatibility of the legislative proposal with the treaties, as well as the choice of the legal instrument and its voluntary nature. the legal service outlined serious concerns as to the legal effects of the mechanism and the risk of undermining other policies of the union or the competitiveness of member states to enter into agreements with third states. additionally, the voluntary nature of the mechanism is difficult to reconcile with the principle of uniform application of the treaties. as a result, during the portuguese presidency, experts at working level considered that the ecbm proposal raised more questions than answers and that any further work would require a complete redesign of the instrument, especially in view of the legal difficulties i mentioned. council experts concluded, therefore, that the current proposal was not a good basis for continuing the legislative discussion. as you can imagine, that was not an easy conclusion to reach. legal and administrative obstacles in a cross-border context persist. we are aware of them and of the reality on the ground. this is also why on 5 october the council adopted its conclusion on the commission’s report on eu border regions: living labs of european integration, where the council invites the commission to continue exploring ways to boost the potential of eu border regions in close cooperation with member states. so i would suggest that we work together to look for alternative instruments of coordination among member states, provided that they are limited to establishing methods and procedures under which member states would mutually agree on solving legal and administrative obstacles with a view to achieving the objectives of cohesion. by working together, we will find the best way to improve the situation in border regions. in this respect allow me to acknowledge the important work done by the committee on regional development and notably by ms tolleret and mr gozi in the context of the ecbm. i’m convinced this work will be very relevant in future discussions. thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the internal land border regions represent 40% of the territory of the european union, and around 30% of european citizens live there. however, we regret that these regions are the ones that are economically weaker than other regions within a member state, and that citizens, businesses and public authorities in border regions face specific difficulties in health services, labour market regulation, taxation, business development and obstacles related to differences in administrative cultures and national legal frameworks. in this respect, interreg has been a real success, not only economically, but also in helping to heal some wounds that unfortunately exist in the european union. during my term as european commissioner for regional policy, i have always been concerned about border regions and, at the proposal of the luxembourg presidency, together with my colleagues from dg regio, i presented in 2017 the communication entitled 'boosting economic growth and cohesion in the european union's border regions'. i highlighted then in the european parliament the ways in which the european union and the member states can reduce the complexity, duration and costs of cross-border interactions by promoting the sharing of services across the border of internal borders. the commission then published the legislative proposal on the cross-border cooperation mechanism in 2018. i am sincerely concerned about the council's decision to stop the co-decision process, citing issues that i personally and i have seen the legal services of the european parliament consider to be irrelevant legal issues, especially given that studies show that this legislative proposal could solve up to 50% of existing cross-border obstacles. if legal and administrative barriers were removed, the gross domestic product of border regions could increase by approximately 3% of eu gdp or 8.7% of the total gdp produced in land border regions. moreover, the existing obstacles cause a loss of around 6 million jobs in these regions and also affect cross-border workers. i therefore ask the council to return to the debate on the cross-border cooperation mechanism and to vote in favour of this legislative proposal which will reduce obstacles and improve people's lives.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, today in europe millions of our citizens live close to border regions. they cross the border to go to work, to educate their children or to access health services. however, incompatibility between national legal systems hinders their mobility and their possibilities. the pandemic has sometimes exacerbated this trend. yet we need more cooperation in areas such as health and the environment. too many barriers still exist, whether in health services, labour law, tax rules or differences in administrative culture. we all know that there is a direct link between the removal of obstacles and the further social and territorial development of border regions, which is an essential element of european cohesion policy. these mechanisms to remove these obstacles to crossborder cooperation can offer a european solution to a european problem and i can say that this parliament has been there. we cannot say the same of the council. the council remained silent and its legal service put forward arguments that were questionable to say the least. as often happens - and i have some experience as a former member of this institution - the council's legal service has created new political obstacles instead of removing legal obstacles. we know this story well and it is being repeated today. my fellow citizens, our citizens deserve better. the european crossborder mechanism under discussion has a strong legal basis in the treaties, promotes territorial cohesion and meets the requirements of the member states, while leaving them the freedom to choose whether and when to use the regulation. it is a specific action which will have a positive impact on the economic and social situation of a region and a territory, in full compliance with article 175 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the cohesion rules are uniform, but do not in any way imply a one-size-fits-all approach to development projects. so my question to the council is: when will you realise the urgency and re-launch the dialogue with us? i ask the president-in-office: what are your proposals and alternatives? we are open to dialogue, you cannot simply block everything, because we need a clear legislative solution and above all because our citizens need answers and above all more open borders so that they can live their daily lives better and feel even more european. so let us not waste any more time and resume the legislative dialogue.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, to bring the european cross-border mechanism into focus i’d like to begin with the story of a cross-border project from my own country of ireland. the carlingford lough greenway will create 10 kilometres of cross-border greenway linking the city of newry in northern ireland to carlingford in the republic of ireland. it will link up with the previously completed portadown newry greenway and the end result will be a 52 km cross-border route along the east coast of the island of ireland. the project is already promoting active sustainable travel for walkers, cyclists and anyone who wants to make use of the space, and it’s an interreg project due for completion at the end of 2021 and it has benefited from erdf cross-border funding. projects such as these are of huge benefit to our border regions. the carlingford lough greenway will be used by students to get to school, by commuters to get to work and by communities on both sides of the irish border for enjoyment and exercise. it will reduce congestion on the roads, thereby decreasing air and noise pollution, and it will improve road safety. so shouldn’t we do everything in our power to ensure that border regions across the european union can benefit from such projects? when we’re debating these kinds of issue, we should remember the eu has 40 internal land border regions and this represents 40% of the union’s territory and close to 30% of the overall eu population, so there’s so much potential contained in these border regions but they’re often left behind. cross-border regions often face disadvantages when it comes to provision of quality services and significant administrative hurdles for the implementation of projects straddling two different territories, so it’s time we did more to invest in cross-border communities that are so crucial for our cohesion goals. the european union is about connecting people. earlier this evening i went to the station in strasbourg and i saw the connecting europe express. brilliant to see a physical manifestation of the need to connect europe. but here in the parliament we need to do so much more to facilitate the advantages of the union for all our citizens. there are legal obstacles, there’s administrative obstacles, they stand in the way. let’s tackle them. let’s move forward with negotiations for the european cross-border mechanism. studies show that such a mechanism could help overcome between 30 and 50% of the obstacles to cross-border communication, so we call on the council to unblock this file and come, meet us at the table.
madam president, sadly, with the exception of ireland, where a huge majority of people voted to change our constitution and provide free, safe and legal abortion up to 12 weeks and longer in a whole range of other circumstances, and argentina, where a social movement led by women and young people overthrew one of the world’s most restrictive and repressive abortion laws, which resulted in the deaths of thousands, in general, abortion rights have been under attack worldwide. so, i welcome the decision of judge pitman to temporarily block the implementation of the texas law, effectively banning abortion, which he correctly described as offensive deprivation of women’s constitutional right to control their lives. but more importantly, we stand here in solidarity with the activists who took part in 660 demonstrations across the united states last saturday to defend abortion rights. it’s only the organised people power of citizens that delivers social change, not benevolent politicians or judges, so long may that continue – they have our full support and solidarity, the way us activists brought such a benefit to us in ireland.
in writing. – the fianna fáil delegation was glad to give our support to the resolution on the state law relating to abortion in texas, usa. the resolution rightfully denounces the abortion law in texas (senate bill 8), which de facto amounts to a total ban on abortion, with no exception for cases of rape, incest or fetal health conditions incompatible with sustained life after birth. in 2018, the irish people voted by an overwhelming majority to repeal the eight amendment, demonstrating our commitment to providing safe and legal options for women and girls seeking abortions, and safeguarding their sexual health and reproductive rights. we acknowledge that highly restrictive laws prohibiting abortion do not necessarily reduce the need for abortions, but result in women having to seek clandestine abortions, travel in order to obtain abortions or carry their pregnancy to term against their will, which is a violation of their human rights. we are therefore deeply concerned to see this development in texas, and we call on representatives of the state of texas to swiftly repeal senate bill 8. in addition, we expect the federal government and us supreme court to do everything within their power to vindicate a woman’s right to choose, as protected by roe v wade.
mr president, when i spoke on this issue in february, i said the situation is bleak in many ways in poland. a government that seeks to discard the rule of law and human rights; a government that persecutes its own people advocating for lgbti-free zones. i ask the prime minister, why, prime minister, would you do that to your own people? a government that feels it has the power to unilaterally undo checks and balances and the separation of powers; a government which operates a punitive regime for women with a crisis pregnancy? i ask again, prime minister, why would you do that to your own people? yet we see glimmers of hope, as robert kennedy called them, ripples of hope. we see them in the thousands of people who took to the streets to tell their government that poland’s future is within the eu. we see them in the polish judges who offer dissenting opinions to a shameful ruling that discredits the rule of law, and we see them in the reversal of the hateful lgbti-free zone declarations. as a former minister for justice in ireland, i know what our member states agreed when they joined the eu. the eu law has primacy, it is above national law. i know because we changed our constitution to make it so in 1972, as so many others did. that was our solemn promise and commitment when we joined. the recent ruling of the polish constitutional court represents a blatant disrespect of the very principles and values of the eu. poland’s future is inside the european union, and eu law stands firm.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – madam president, i welcome the fact that this house is very committed to providing a budget that addresses the major issues and challenges facing us in terms of the covid pandemic and the need to have resilience built into the economies in the years ahead. i was very disappointed with the council’s decision, of course, to pare back on some of the key most important issues like innovation research, like in the digital economy and other very significant areas. reference has been made to the fact that the committee wanted to prioritise investment in research, innovation and in education, and specifically in young people. now there is also in the report an issue with which i have serious concerns, and that is the reserve of eur 20 million being placed on funding to the united nations relief and works agency – unrwa. i reject that proposal. i think it’s sneaky, it’s unfair and it is politicising children in palestine where i have visited and seen first-hand the appalling conditions they live in. and while the curriculum must be readjusted to ensure that it does not propose hatred to the israelis, we still at the same time must provide our funding to ensure that palestinians are educated in the first place. so i welcome the committee’s decision, but i want to reject that amendment and that proposal.
mr president, i would like to say to vice-president vestager that on her appointment, the commission president told her to be decisive and ambitious on the big issues that are changing the future of our society, our economy and the planet. indeed, last month we heard vice-president timmermans speak about how environmental action 10 years earlier would have avoided the current energy crisis. state aid can help us address the rise in gas prices by supporting energy efficiency measures in buildings. you know we need a massive investment in the deep retrofit or renovation of buildings, buildings like this one, which only has an e energy rating – and the ‘e’ doesn’t stand for europe! state aid can help in the fight against energy poverty but the current guidelines don’t allow this. the category for the improvement of the energy and environmental performance of buildings only allows a 20% contribution from state aid. this needs to increase to at least 40%, and you have the power to make this happen.
president, commissioner, minister, the right to a healthy environment is a human right and it is high time that the european union and the united nations also enshrined this right in their charters, as so many countries have already done. we must, however, deepen this fundamental debate on the rights that are being threatened by the way we treat the earth. for what should be the consequences when our healthy environment is compromised? what should be the sanctions we impose on those who destroy ecosystems? to answer these questions, it is also necessary that we recognize ecosystems as legal entities, so that everyone can help protect nature. we are all stakeholders. it is also important to recognise ecocide, the destruction of a healthy environment and ecosystems, as a crime, so that it can also be prosecuted. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i too would like to commend the decision of the united nations council to recognise access to a healthy and sustainable environment as a universal human right. maybe it's a shame it happened a little late, but it's a good thing it happened. we're facing an increase in diseases that are transmitted from animals to humans. we are facing an increasing climate emergency, pervasive toxic pollution, and also a dramatic loss of biodiversity. all of these issues have brought this issue to our attention, and that's certainly a good thing. air pollution is primarily a result of burning fossil fuels, which also drives climate change. it causes 13 deaths per minute worldwide. that's really alarming. we need to reflect this and our commitment in our policies. to project the paris agreement into our trade agreements, to project this fundamental right into our support for certain countries. let us translate this right into our politics!
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, we have said that the right to life, the right to health, the right to safety, these rights already guaranteed at european level, are of course partly dependent on the quality of the environment in which we live. how can we guarantee these rights without first guaranteeing the right to a healthy environment? i naturally welcome, as has been done here in this house, the united nations resolution proposing to introduce the right to a healthy environment into the universal declaration of human rights. the questions i ask are how can this un declaration be interpreted at the level of the european union? how can this political act, which was proposed at the united nations, be incorporated into the fundamental rights of the european union so that it can be appropriated on european territory? and how can we do this in a transgenerational way, i.e. by defending today to protect tomorrow also a certain number of populations? but i cannot help talking about the international and global issue, because when we talk about the right to the environment, it is also the responsibility of our companies to respect and guarantee it. so we have two things to do. the first, mr minister, concerns the un binding treaty, which is currently blocked in relation to the european union because there is no council mandate at the un level. and the second question: there is a due diligence initiative that needs to come from the commission which is lagging behind and which would allow us to work on the issue of the right to a healthy environment.
madam president, there will be no human rights on a dead planet. there will be no jobs, no equality, no democracy, education, culture or freedom. scientists warn that we are in the decisive decade for humanity’s possible future on earth. the right to a healthy environment recognises that protection of the environment must be top of the agenda. underpinning all other rights, the right to a healthy environment is simply fundamental. a healthy biosphere is vital for achieving the sustainable development goals in social and economic areas. i welcome the un’s recognition of this right but, unless this is replicated in courtrooms across the union, it will be just more talk and no action. with the eighth environmental action programme, parliament has backed my calls for this fundamental right of eu citizens to be defended by the highest eu courts. we must fight for the well-being of our planet and our people. a healthy environment is vital in this fight because this fight, in fact, is for our very survival.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the glasgow climate conference with a very painful conclusion. with current climate plans, the temperature will rise by as much as 2.7 degrees, which is a far cry from the 1.5 degrees we promised in paris. are we serious? what does that say to the people who were victims of the floods this summer in belgium and germany, for example? but it's not too late. we can and must do better than the climate plans on the table today. climate marches across europe once again brought thousands of people onto the streets to demand greater ambition. admittedly, europe cannot do this alone. we need to increase climate aid to developing countries, and we need to get the united states and other major powers on board. but europe must have the ambition to inspire them so that they too will finally take responsibility.
mr president, the challenge in transitioning to a cleaner future ahead of us was already enormous without the burden of the urgency to react and act. reaching climate neutrality by 2050 means undertaking an enormous challenge, which requires a far-reaching transformation of our economies and societies, not only of our energy sector or industrial one. the realities we are facing at the moment are diverse. we have to act to reach the 2030 target and climate neutrality by 2050. we have to recover from the economic crisis and we have to face energy price hikes at the moment. it is time to show that the green deal is not only an environmental but also a growth strategy aiming to transform the european union into a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy. meeting the increased production will require not only enhanced generation of renewable energy but also consolidated public and private investment in infrastructure, building storage capacities and a competitive renewables market. natural gas still plays an important role in the eu mix, and the eu will continue to depend on natural gas for some years to come. that’s why it is essential to recognise the role of carbon capture, utilisation and storage (ccus) in our climate mitigation strategy, especially as a solution to carbon emissions from heavy industry, and we have to convince all the other global players to follow our example and act with ambition and determination.
thank you very much. before we go any further, i'd like to announce the first round of voting today. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. and the voting will of course be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i therefore declare the voting period open. this means that you can vote until 2.15 p.m. the results of the votes will be announced at 7 p.m.
we now continue with the debate on– the question for oral answer (o-000065/2021 – b9-0039/21), and– the question for oral answer (o-000066/2021 – b9-0040/21).
mr president, the last intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) science report shows us the harsh truth. projected scenarios with different emission cutting schemes all show that keeping warming below 1.5°c will be impossible with the current rate. so we have to do more. seeing all the videos of the fires around the globe, it’s time to speak about the climate heating, because it’s only average which can speak about a rise of some degrees and warming. the united nations brings us around the same table to tackle the challenge that is common for all the people on this planet: climate change, climate heating. cop26 is an important milestone after the paris agreement. almost 200 countries showed their plans to cut emissions by 2030, but still the report shows increasing emissions from 2010 to 2030. we have to succeed in these negotiations. i have high hopes in front of the citizens that a lot can still be done in glasgow. i do welcome joe biden back to the work, and i think it’s a good sign that china promises to stop financing overseas coal. it’s important, as the commission said, that adaptation and mitigation, also in the least developed countries and small islands, are taken on board. we cannot heat our globe.
mr president, let us get straight to the point. all energy will now have to be devoted to mitigating the climate catastrophe. for example, the funds that many countries intend to spend on the arms race will not be sufficient for the technological revolution that the planet will need to complete the energy transition, a gigantic project requiring the total investment of all, starting with china, the united states, the european union and so on. we no longer have the right to waste our resources. business as usual will lead us right into the wall. the technological potential is there to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement. let's be creative and remember that the end of the carved stone age was not caused by a lack of stones, but was made possible by innovation. politically speaking, there are few examples in history where so many conditions have to be met to avoid the worst. so let's set the right priorities. we no longer have the right to make mistakes. the younger generations will send us to hell if glasgow is to go down in history as the pinnacle of shame, impotence and irresponsibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was in copenhagen in 2009, cancun the year after, and paris in 2015. the atmosphere was alarmed each time, but especially after paris we welcomed the results with relief. after that, the level of ambition dropped again and the despondency grew. now, fortunately, the young have come out into the streets. they and we know that in glasgow it is their very future that is at stake. it's time to go. are we betting that our grandchildren and great-grandchildren in the future will talk about cop26 with enthusiasm? that this is where world leaders finally stepped up and made the decisions necessary to deal with the climate crisis? or will they find, angry and discouraged, that their lives and futures apparently meant less to us than short-term economic interests and business as usual? of course, we all hope for the former. the result depends entirely on political will, and although this has been lacking most of the time, remember: political will is fortunately a renewable resource.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a reality that cannot be denied. all of humanity is facing severe weather events, whether it's floods, fires or droughts. our lives and property, everyone's, are at stake. today, we are also facing an energy crisis, which in turn affects the population of the european union. all of this is a consequence of the negligence of policy makers who, over time, have ignored the signals received. it is up to all of us today, and this is not an easy task, to take concrete steps in this direction, and the glasgow conference is a new stage in that process. but i would like to stress from the outset the need for, before any decision is taken, we have the impact studies to assess what those decisions mean, so that we do not affect economic sectors. recovery and resilience plans represent a good opportunity to finance these actions and member states need to ensure that these resources are used efficiently. the agricultural sector must be seen as a serious partner in the battle against climate change. but efforts must be made globally, not just regionally. or, to be more precise, we are imposing environmental conditions on farmers in the european union for no reason, while in another part of the world, where we import food, things have gotten out of hand. if we really want to succeed in this area and achieve the goals of the paris agreement, then we have to be serious about each other, no matter where we are in the world.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if we compare our successes in combating climate change today with those of a decade ago, we see progress. but we all agree that even the effort and the proximity are not enough. we have a number of demands, such as the elimination of all fossil fuel subsidies, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and increased investment in renewable energy. according to the international energy agency, we need to triple our investment in clean technologies over the next decade to prevent temperature rises of more than one and a half degrees by 2050. so the un conference is an opportunity for world leaders to make even more ambitious commitments, perhaps including one that involves changing the current neoliberal economic model to one that will be based on criteria such as social justice and people's satisfaction. let's not miss this opportunity! today we must call on all governments to increase their national contributions and to understand the alarming situation we find ourselves in.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the eu we are working very ambitiously to have more climate protection in agriculture. compared to the rest of the world, we're way ahead. while agriculture accounts for about 10% of greenhouse gas emissions here in europe, it accounts for just under 20% globally. at the same time, we expect the global population to grow from the current seven billion to ten billion by 2050, all of whom have the right to adequate food. the paris agreement on climate change states that climate change must not jeopardize food production. we should take this very seriously and put agriculture more in the focus of climate diplomacy. we europeans must make a greater contribution to modern and efficient agriculture, especially in the poorer countries. but at the same time we have a duty to preserve our family farms, rather than shifting food production to third countries. otherwise we are doing climate protection a disservice.
vice-president silva pereira, commissioner sinkevičius, there are links between the climate crisis and the issue of refugees coming from amongst the most disadvantaged people in the world. these were the words of david puttnam in his shirley williams memorial lecture last week. many refugees come from the developing world and the global south. we made a promise to developing countries in copenhagen in 2009 that we would provide them with usd 100 billion of climate finance. living up to our promises can help achieve this. it can also strengthen the practices and the efforts of indigenous people to address and respond to climate change. we must also listen to women. women often have a strong body of knowledge and expertise that can be used in climate change mitigation, disaster reduction and adaptation strategies. nations with greater female representation in positions of power have smaller carbon footprints.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, there are many positives in this report, which calls on the commission to propose for the first time a legislative framework specifically for methane, which would set binding measures and reduction targets for 2030, in line with science-based pathways for 1.5 degrees. farmers often feel that agriculture is the only sector being targeted, but this report acknowledges that methane emissions in the energy sector are also a huge problem. therefore, we are asking for mandatory mrv, mandatory leak detection and repair, and a ban on routine venting and flaring for all fossil fuels placed on the eu market. but agriculture is still by far and away the biggest source of methane emissions in the eu. we need to reduce livestock production and consumption. we should do this by targeting large-scale farms and by properly supporting family farms to prevent the further loss of family livestock farms and the further concentration and intensification of livestock farming.
mr president, i welcome the announcement of the package by the commission, and i want to commend commissioner mcguinness on this. just to say at the outset, the pandora leaks shows quite clearly that money laundering is not always by some nefarious groups; it is very often by respected politicians across the globe. i think that is an indication of why we are so slow – not just in europe but across the globe – in terms of addressing the issue of money laundering. it is not a victimless crime. it robs and siphons money from scarce public facilities. the other issue, of course, is it funds terrorism, drug dealing and prostitution, racketeering and smuggling of people. for all those reasons, anything we can do to stamp out this criminal act is very welcome, and i commend the announcement by the commission on that. we have to ensure that there is strong cooperation between the national authorities in terms of banking, oversight, and also the revenue commissioners to ensure that each country is capable of referring suspicious activities to the centralised anti—money laundering authority, so that there can be investigations. at the end of the day, there has to be prosecutions, and that often is referred back to the national authorities for prosecution. i’d like to see a bit of clarity brought on that particular issue because in the event of there being very influential people found to be money laundering, well then, can there be or is there the will to actually prosecute? particularly, as i said, when they are people at the top end of our politics and commerce across the globe. as i said, the pandora papers show that this is widespread, is nefarious, and it must be stamped out. i commend the package announced, and i hope that it is implemented speedily, and it gets cooperation from all involved in the european union.
mr president, it is estimated that up to usd 2 trillion is laundered globally every year. in my own country, the level of money laundering has more than doubled in the space of a year and we also have the amounts, of course, exposed in the pandora papers. money laundering is a scourge in our society and disrupts our whole economy. it allows criminal organisations to thrive and to grow their murky operations. europe cannot afford to be seen as a gateway for dirty money to be channelled to criminals. with the commission’s new package, which i really welcome, the eu has the potential to become a global leader in the fight against money laundering. it’s now up to the member states and the european parliament to make it a reality, and we must all be upfront. all member states must be up front and centre in the renewed fight against money laundering in europe. we must strive for a gold-standard anti-money laundering regime. criminals only need one loophole to exploit the system. closing off these loopholes is not easy, given that we live in a complex and interconnected single market. but europe’s reputation is suffering through more and more money laundering scandals. the eu needs all the member states to champion this cause.
mr president, i welcome the agreement that the oecd finally got all member states to agree on, but there’s no doubt it was a long and tortuous road, and it did take some time. from my perspective, as an mep from ireland, we had genuine concerns, and it does go to show the importance of unanimity in terms of tax issues when it comes to the european union. the fact of the matter is, ireland did have genuine concerns and they were addressed eventually, at the end of the negotiations, in terms of ensuring certainty around tax rates. that is very important and very significant, commissioner. we can’t have a situation where the commission, which is to uphold and implement the treaties, at the same time, is now looking at the option of using article 116 in areas of tax harmonisation. i believe that is against the spirit of what article 116 is about, and i would urge caution in that direction. it goes to show that, when we do put our collective minds together, when we make an argument, we can sit down and we can come to an agreement, and that happened with the oecd in the context of 136 countries. so it was an achievement, and it does go to show that collectively we can work together. we now have to ensure that it is implemented in a fair manner and that it is implemented for a long period of time. in other words, we don’t have people coming back to the table again next week, next month, next year, saying, ‘well, we need to raise it further. it should be increased, increased, increased.’ from that perspective, we need certainty. we need the commission now to get along with the legislation, implement it, and uphold the spirit of the treaties in terms of article 116, and not to abuse it.
madam president, i’d like to thank uniformed servicemen from the whole of europe – the border guards, police, military – for guarding the eu’s external borders. their efforts vis-à-vis belarus, for example, taken in poland, lithuania and latvia make the tireless criminal hybrid operational efforts by lukashenko under russia’s instigation ineffective. we have to assess the security aspect of this action. today, it was visible in this statement of jens stoltenberg issuing words of solidarity vis-à-vis poland, lithuania and latvia. we in the eu, with our aspirations for defence and security, have to take this into account.
madam president, the sad truth is that illegal push-backs – because i’m sorry friends, there’s no such thing as a legal one – have become the new normal, in part thanks to the commission’s toxic approach to migration. the commission knows well that eu money funds border forces who push back refugees, who torture and beat them. it knows well that thousands of people are illegally pushed back from croatia into bosnia every month, without the ability to exercise their right to seek asylum, on orders from the very top of the croatian government. it knows well that thousands of people are pushed out to sea by greek border guards, left to drown or disappear, on orders from the very top of the greek government. but the money from the eu keeps flowing. so now, here we are at a point where our 12 member states have actually called for the legalisation of push-backs in blatant disregard of international law. we should be absolutely ashamed of ourselves.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, haiti has been one of the most systematically underdeveloped nations on the earth since they threw off the shackles of french colonialism in 1804. the empire and its agents in haiti have made sure that all efforts at land reform and policies that would have lifted haiti up were stopped. this has meant crushing reparations to france, invasions, us military occupations, five sitting presidents assassinated and countless coups engineered by the us and france. bill clinton forced heavy neoliberal reforms on haiti as a condition for reversing the coup against the hugely popular president jean-bertrand aristide. france and washington orchestrated a second coup on aristide in 2004. under the subsequent brutal puppet leadership, no nation-building has been allowed and the casualties, deaths and the after-effects of frequent earthquakes have been compounded by this legacy of interference that continues today. the good news is that the people of haiti have never stopped struggling against empire and hopefully are on the verge of taking back control of their country from us and french authoritarianism.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the western balkans summit (2021/2930 ((rsp)). i would also like to welcome the representative of the council, mr anže logar, minister for foreign affairs, and commissioner mcguinness to this item of the agenda.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, madam commissioner, honourable members, the slovenian presidency has devoted special attention to the western balkan partners and their future in the european union. the region is of great strategic importance for the union, and maintaining a constructive engagement is key for the region. i am therefore particularly happy to discuss with you the outcome of the eu—western balkans summit in brdo, hosted by our presidency and chaired by the president of the european council, which was a cornerstone event. the summit served to strengthen our ties and stressed the importance of our relations. it allowed us to emphasise that the eu remains the predominant partner and investor in the region. the system and the close partnership during the covid—19 pandemic were notably underlined. the union also reconfirmed its commitment to the enlargement process based upon credible reforms by partners, fair and rigorous conditionality and the principle of own merits. the brdo declaration, which was agreed at the summit, highlights these themes as well as the other important aspects. let me recall some key features that were discussed. in order to foster the region’s socio—economic recovery, leaders discussed ways to intensify their engagement, building on concrete deliverables, notably the economic and investment plan and the green agenda for the western balkans. the summit also agreed a set of concrete deliverables, such as the agreement on a roadmap towards lowering roaming costs between the eu and the western balkans. let me also recall that fundamental values and principles, notably rule of law, independent justice and strong democratic institutions, remain key. the union’s assistance will continue to be linked to tangible progress in the area of rule of law and socio—economic reforms, as well as to the western balkans partners, adherence to eu values, rules and standards. inclusive regional cooperation and the strengthening of good neighbourly relations, including with eu member states, remain important. so does the need to make further efforts to foster reconciliation and regional stability. in order to ensure the stability of the region and strengthen regional cooperation, ways to deepen our security and strategic engagement were also discussed by the leaders. finally, it was agreed to hold an eu—western balkans summit as a regular event in the future, a decision that reaffirms the union’s shared commitment to reinvigorating and enhancing our political dialogue with the region of the western balkans. to conclude, the summit was successful and appreciated by both the eu and the countries of western balkans. it was a timely and important event showing our commitment to the shared objective of a strong, stable and united europe. i would like to take this opportunity to particularly thank the european parliament for your role in promoting a sustained and constructive engagement with the western balkans and in the strengthening of your important ties. i guess future presidencies will need and will count on your support as well.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for holding this debate to discuss the outcome of the eu western balkans summit on 6 october. our thanks too to the slovenian presidency for hosting the event. the summit was an important opportunity to reconfirm the european perspective of the western balkans and the deep links between the european union and our western balkan partners. we are all europe. we share the same values, geography, history and culture. but most of all, we share the responsibility to build a better common future. we owe it to our citizens. the enlargement process is at the core of our relations. it has a transformative power, upholding european values and supporting reforms. it is a strategic objective we share, which unites the whole region and the european union. it is important that it is clearly stated in the summit declaration. the summit provided a clear analysis of the needs and reforms required, and a strong sense of prioritisation. together, the european union and the western balkans agreed on a number of tangible measures linked to the implementation of the economic and investment plan. this plan remains the eu’s blueprint for financial engagement in the region and aims to mobilise eur 30 billion to spur the long-term recovery of the western balkans and foster their convergence with the eu. we agreed on an agenda on innovation, research, education, culture, youth and sport. in practice, this means promoting scientific excellence, reforming the region’s education systems, creating further opportunities for youth, and hopefully reversing the trend of brain drain from the region. we have also prepared a detailed action plan for the implementation of the green agenda to support energy transition, a circular economy, the reduction of pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, the protection of biodiversity, and sustainable farming and food production. we also made progress on developing a roadmap and glide path for the voluntary reduction of roaming charges to roam like at home. we want to extend the way we use our mobile connections anywhere in the eu to the region, without crippling costs. these are not only tangible measures for citizens in the region. it shows how closely eu policy priorities are mirrored in our work with the region. this is also reflected in the agreement to enhance cooperation between the eu and western balkan partners on core security issues such as cyber, hybrid, disinformation, space issues and military mobility, countering illicit firearms trafficking, and counterterrorism. a clear message was also that reforms in the region are still needed. this includes reforms related to political and economic governance, rule of law and media freedom, and promoting a vibrant civil society. further and decisive efforts by the western balkans are also crucial to deliver on their commitment to establish a common regional market. of course, the eu will continue to support the region in those efforts, including through a recently adopted instrument on pre-accession assistance. in brdo, we also agreed to hold regular summits with the region. this confirms the importance of this part of europe to the european union. over the past months, we have followed a series of public and civic initiatives and contributions by citizens from the region to the conference on the future of europe. and indeed, we should listen to all europeans, including those in the western balkans, on issues that matter for our common future.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the european perspective of our partners in the western balkans is in our mutual interest and remains our strategic choice. with the visit of commission president ursula von der leyen last month and the eu western balkans summit two weeks ago in brdo, the european union has once again demonstrated its strong political commitment to the western balkan countries and the entire accession process. having a closer look at the brdo declaration, i would see five important positive messages to our partners. firstly, it is reconfirmed the european perspective of the region and our commitment to enlargement. secondly, the eu has provided eur 3.3 billion for emergency support and for supporting the recovery. in addition, the eu together with the member states, has delivered almost three million doses of vaccines already. thirdly, the heads of state have called for a swift implementation of the economic and investment plan and the new ipa iii regulation. fourthly, other very practical measures were agreed to associate the region more closely to us in the european union, such as to lower roaming charges. and fifthly, the european union reaffirmed its support to strengthen regional cooperation. recent concerning events have shown how deep the divisions run and how much work is still needed to build good and sustainable neighbourly relations. allow me to thank commissioner várhelyi for presenting the enlargement package yesterday at an extraordinary meeting of the committee on foreign affairs. during our discussion, we welcomed the restated commitment of the western balkans partners to the primacy of democracy, fundamental rights and values. eu support must continue to be linked to tangible progress on the rule of law and socio—economic reforms, as well as to the adherence of our european values, rules and standards. a final point: as we enter a critical juncture for the future of the eu and its enlargement, the eu and the member states must clear the hurdles precluding us from switching gears in the accession process for countries that show a strong commitment to reforms.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we welcome that the slovenian presidency organised this summit as one of their priorities, but we cannot hide our dissatisfaction with the overall outcome. when there are no decisions on the dates for concrete actions and when even using the word ‘enlargement’ becomes an issue, we must react. it’s true that some significant steps were taken, such as adopting the ipa free pre-accession financial instrument and substantial financial commitment has been made throughout the region as well. nevertheless, we need more political engagement and commitment. as a group we particularly insist that all countries in the region uphold fundamental rights and the rule of law, defend freedom of media, fight corruption, and we will not compromise on these issues. what worries us is that we are witnessing unrest across the region. typical patterns of foreign interference and public support for the eu is falling. as a long-term solution and effective driver of reforms, we propose a credible and reachable european perspective for the western balkans countries. we must not shy away from calling out on all of the negative trends and backsliding. still, we must deliver on our political commitments towards countries that did everything we asked for. the western balkans is a real test of the credibility of the european union’s declared geopolitical ambitions. therefore, the accession talks with north macedonia and albania, but also regarding the visa-free regime for kosovo should be approved immediately.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i welcome the past eu—western balkans summit and its conclusions not only because the most important historical lesson for europe is investing in integration of the continent, but because such public expressions of solidarity are more important than ever, as disinformation campaigns attempt to create divisions have recently been very strong in the western balkans. it shows that any hurdle can be overcome in the commitment to the enlargement process and that fully—fledged eu membership is the ultimate goal. the eu’s commitment to provide nearly eur 30 billion in grants and investments over seven years in order to aid development and propel western balkan countries towards membership is real proof that we stand side by side with our partners and reaffirm our unequivocal support for the region’s european perspective. however, the enlargement process does not only depend on the level of economic growth, but also on many other achievements, among which are the rule of law, democracy and, last but not least, good neighbourly relations. we have the current examples for this: the provocation on the kosovo—serbia border shows us how fragile the peace in the region is, or the difficulties between bulgaria and north macedonia to find a compromise on the bilateral dispute demonstrate to us what the role of the past is in the region. i believe we should continue to support western balkans in carrying out all those necessary reforms because the european union and alignment with its values and standards remain the greatest unifying factor for all the people of the western balkans. having said that, i urge both north macedonia and bulgaria to finally resume a constructive dialogue in order to achieve sustainable results. reaching a compromise over an action plan of concrete measures could foster the whole eu integration, and i think the further delays will put at risk the credibility, objectivity and reliability of the accession process.
on behalf of the ecr group. the bardo declaration adopted at the summit is yet another document full of clichés, empty talk and empty words. there's a lot of talk about european values, about the rule of law, about fundamental rights and so on and so on and so on. i am outraged by the hypocrisy and duplicity of the colleagues who have spoken so far. my colleagues, i speak out of courtesy, you speak of compromise. what kind of compromise, fellas? we repeat and show you the drastic violation of human rights in the republic of north macedonia, the denial of the right to national self-determination, the erasure of bulgarian historical, military and cultural memory. we're proving it with pictures, proving it with footage, and you're talking about compromise. what compromise do you want to make with the memory of our grandfathers? what compromise can we make with the fact that the republic of north macedonia is ruled by muppets, ruled by belgrade and moscow, and you pretend not to see it? and these puppet governments there are trying to prevent the bulgarians from defining themselves as such. is that what you want us to compromise on? isn't your rule of law, isn't your supreme european value the right to self-determination and that everyone should determine how they feel? why are you denying this to the bulgarians in today's republic of north macedonia? can't you see these processes? a week ago, i showed you pictures, pictures of bulgarian military cemeteries being turned into outdoor toilets. dear commissioner mcginnis, i can't see you, but i sincerely hope that you're not doing a spinning wheel or a sudoku or a pacifist's dance right now, but that you're listening to me and i insist that you answer me. what will the commission do to restore the bulgarian war memorial over the town of kavadarci, which has been turned into an outdoor toilet? i insist, i showed you the pictures, you saw this thing. if belgian, french, english, italian war cemeteries are treated the same, will you still want a compromise and why do you want a compromise that is only at the expense of our memory, the memory of our grandfathers? why don't you turn around, it'll be much easier for you? you want to start negotiations immediately with the republic of north macedonia and the republic of albania. great, then turn to those who are under the direct command of belgrade and the kremlin in skopje, and tell them the following: rebuild all the memorials, bulgarian war cemeteries that you destroyed in violation of the geneva convention, stop your policy of violence and harassment of people with bulgarian national consciousness, then change your textbooks and take out the tales of hate. here are the basic things that can be done. you, colleagues, pretend not to understand what we want from the authorities in north macedonia. we want the rule of law for the local bulgarians, we want to guarantee the right of self-determination for the local bulgarians, we want to preserve our cultural and historical heritage. that is what we want, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more, nothing less. if you still haven't understood it, your place is not in the european parliament, but in another institution with a more articulate profile that can help people who don't understand simple sentences. but i'm sure you understand, and you're just asking us to compromise because that's what you've decided, and that's very stupid. this policy is pushing the peoples of the balkans away from the idea of a single european union. you are the greatest enemies of the idea of the european union because you are trying to humiliate a whole people and a whole nation, and we cannot understand why you are doing this. there's no logic in trying to humiliate an entire nation. mrs. mcginnis, i hope i have caught your attention and i insist on a clear and precise answer: when and under what circumstances will the european commission force the government of north macedonia to rebuild the destroyed bulgarian military cemeteries? in case you didn't know, there's a geneva convention. this geneva convention, my dear lady, also deals with war cemeteries and obliges every country to protect war cemeteries and to respect the memory of the soldiers who died. and in the last minute, let me turn your attention to your whole policy in the western balkans. she's deeply wrong. you pretend not to understand the great influence of belgrade and its role in destabilizing the entire region, you pretend not to see the great role of the kremlin. do you know where the kremlin is, do you know who lives in the kremlin and who works in the kremlin? if you don't know, i can tell you, but if you don't know how the conflicts in the balkans started, read a little history and see the role of the kremlin in the balkans, which continues to this day. and you advocate that role, you're very much for freedom, you're very much for democracy, you're very much for the rule of law, right? why do you go against these principles? why don't you speak up and get these governments to actually do what needs to be done? the path of humiliating an entire nation to open the door for puppet governments in the kremlin and belgrade is deeply flawed. you are thus instilling a deep disappointment in the bulgarian nation with the idea of the european union. so, gentlemen, if you want to negotiate with macedonia, force the authorities there to respect the bulgarians in macedonia.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, more than half the western balkans put in the eu membership applications over 13 years ago. some have lost interest, others doubt it will ever happen. the eu can’t make clear statement on the matter. president charles michel said after the summit, ‘there is a desire to work towards progress on enlargement’. after over 20 years of dangling the prospect of eu membership in front of the western balkans, vague and distant statements like this must make the people of the balkan states wonder. the albanians who put down their weapons in 1999 did so surrounded by promises from the eu that never materialised. what did happen was a string of leaders vetted by the west allowed the market to rip through their most valuable assets. privatisation and fire sale of said assets has resulted in the disposal of laws that protected workers’ rights and strong education, health and social-security programmes. prioritising foreign direct investment meant disaster for local industry. the eu asked these accession states to address corruption, if they do then they have to reverse some of the predatory buying of state properties that went to us, eu member states’, turkish and israeli companies for peanuts. for fear more of more eyes turning to russia and china, our friends in the us now want to speed up things. but much of the trust is gone and, thankfully, a more independently minded leadership is growing in the region.
mr president, i welcome the eu decision to reiterate its commitment to the western balkans getting closer to our union during the recent summit in slovenia. however, i deplore that the summit did not bring any breakthrough or concrete next steps in that sense. i believe we should accelerate the enlargement process. this is crucial as a loss of credibility of the eu in the western balkans threatens to increase foreign influence in europe, notably given russia’s and china’s interests in the region. i fear the lack of a decision to open negotiations with north macedonia and albania can accelerate this process of growing external influence. in a world of fragile and changing alliances, this enlargement could be a further guarantee of proper development, stability and peace on our continent.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the western balkans enlargement has been a major theme of several eu presidencies in recent years. unfortunately, member states sceptical about enlargement prevented the slovenian presidency from including a specific date in the brdo summit's final declaration. and the date of accession would be a very important message for the countries of the region. without specific objectives, we know very well that it is very difficult to make a political decision. even though some candidates, such as serbia, are soon to be ten years into their role. and we're not seeing the end of it. the date of enlargement would not only be a clinging to candidate countries, but a planned, visible closure of the enlargement issue would also be useful for the sceptics of enlargement. in this situation, when the issue of enlargement is not always and not for everyone popular, a special thanks to commissioner várhelyi for the european commission's creation of the investment programme of some eur 30 billion for the region. if there are no longer any positive political messages due to the hesitations of some member states, then at least the eu should help the lives of the citizens of the region through investments.
in the declaration of the european union-western balkans summit held in brdo near kranj, the member states of the european union underlined their commitment to further enhance joint engagement with the western balkan countries and to advance their political, economic and social transformation. i congratulate mr. janša's government and you here for keeping the fire that the republic of croatia started to bring these countries closer to the european union. we also congratulate commissioner várhelyi who, a few days ago, set out his vision and the enlargement package. i am also proud of the ipa iii package that we have adopted, as co-rapporteur, of the 14 billion euro that is earmarked for this area. i want to emphasize here as someone who comes from bosnia and herzegovina, from mostar, the only city that has made in this report on enlargement some transformation and for the first time has a mayor and a city council bosnia and herzegovina has a problem, and that problem is the electoral law. this problem is equally accessible to all three parties in bosnia and herzegovina the international community, the european commission and all those involved up to 26 years after dayton. we are not witnessing calls for new funding for international administration. as long as i am here in this parliament, not a single cent will be spent from ipa funds on anyone who is not from bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, montenegro, north macedonia because those people are losing what is essential. it loses its seeds, it loses young people who are building europe instead of building the western balkans. thank you, congratulations, and i want you all to focus on the people of bosnia and herzegovina, not the serbs.
mr president, do the western balkans have a european outlook? the answer is yes. will they be able to join the european union's internal market? yes, as soon as they're ready. what about the schengen area? same answer: as soon as they're ready. is there any obstacle in principle to refusing cooperation with the western balkans in all matters relating to trade, monetary cooperation and political cooperation? of course not, as long as the conditions are met on both sides. but a major obstacle remains: how to ensure that the eu's fundamental values are respected once these countries become members? the answer is clear. all the balkan countries have to do is to look at what is happening today in one of their countries, which is already a member of the european union, in poland or hungary, or in other states which are becoming democracies. two days ago we were treated to a slap in the face by the representative of a country accused of having deviated from the fundamental values of the european union. in the meantime, our union is powerless to enforce the return to the rule of law. let us be clear: as long as the european union remains unable to impose on a member state failing to respect the values enshrined in article 2, we will be in a worse position than the gravediggers of the rule of law. back to the balkans, where you don't have to go very far to discover mass graves. the first of the aspirations of the citizens of the balkans is, i believe, respect for dignity and the ability to guarantee it. for us in the european parliament, this is a difficult situation. we are currently unable to deliver on the promise of freedom and to guarantee the return to respect for values once they have been violated by a member state. in other words, let us remain open to cooperation. we can offer everything to the western balkans except institutions.
mr president, despite much fanfare, the western balkans summit earlier this month turned out to be a disappointment. it failed in one of its most crucial tasks, that of offering a tangible and credible path to eu membership for those in the balkans who continue to dream of a future within the european union. despite numerous enacting demands and targets, those countries continue to be offered only false promises. the eu, of course, is the most successful peace project in history. yet in a country so recently ravaged by war, we continue to undermine accession to this peace project. and i remember half a century ago the excitement in ireland when we joined the european economic community. it brought economic, social and environmental progress to our island. and the longer we continue to dash balkan people’s hopes of joining the eu, the more disillusionment will grow with the european project. so we need to be clear in our demands regarding requirements for accession, but we cannot endlessly break promises. we can no longer play with people’s hopes and dreams because of domestic politics. of course, internal reforms are needed and institutions need strengthening, but this is a separate and internal matter. and i strongly regret the continuous undermining of the long stalled start to accession talks for north macedonia and albania by bulgaria on very questionable grounds. and it’s wrong that some member states refuse to even consider setting 2030 as a target date for membership at the summit. so i call on eu member states to approve accession talks with these two countries as a matter of urgency and to set clear commitments to other balkan states. we were given that option half a century ago, the least we can do is offer it to our colleagues in southern and eastern europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, thank you commissioner. it’s a pity that the rapporteur already left, after his speech, because sometimes i’m not quite sure he has read his own report entirely, to be very honest. and the point here is, here we stand again discussing frontex, and this is not a political issue. this is about the proper functioning of an important european agency. and there are reports indeed by the frontex scrutiny group, but also the ombudsman, the court of auditors, and we’re still waiting on an olaf investigation on an ongoing investigation into the functioning of frontex. and every time the conclusion is that there are significant shortcomings in the governance, there are problems with the implementation of the new mandate. and these are serious conclusions that have not been resolved yet. we can go into all the reports, but sometimes it’s also good just to go to frontex’s website. and sometimes it’s very telling. because if you read the mandate, the official mandate in the regulation of frontex, it states that frontex should be managing borders efficiently, in full compliance with fundamental rights. if you then go to the website of frontex itself, where it states our mission, it states that we will take care to ensure safe and well-functioning external borders. full stop. they forget to mention full compliance with fundamental rights, even on their own website. and that is telling, and that is something that should be a concern for everyone. maybe not on the fringes, but for everyone that should be a concern and certainly also for renew, which is unfortunately changing its position on granting discharge now. i, like my colleague sippel, also want to make a very clear point on what is another telling example of the problems with frontex, namely access to documents in cases where frontex continues to claim recovery of legal costs from associations that are striving for access to public documents. in addition, it’s the only european agency that is frustrating the fight for transparency in this way. and again, there is a telling example which has also been condemned by several committees, like the meijers committee. so therefore, we cannot grant discharge. we do support the resolution, but we are putting a couple of issues in reserve with conditions. however, looking at all these reports, all these conclusions, for the greens it’s still a very clear conclusion. we cannot grant discharge this time because of these serious concerns of non-compliance with fundamental rights, especially since this is an essential part of frontex’s mandate. and therefore we will stick to what the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) has also advised us. we will not grant discharge to frontex, and i want to thank our colleagues from the libe committee for pushing that line. and i just want to express my regret that the renew colleagues did that in libe, but unfortunately not in the budgetary control committee (cont) anymore.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, there might be some people in here who choose to bury their heads in the sand, but the truth is that the evidence of human rights violations linked to frontex activities is profound and extensive. so this isn’t a discussion about lukashenko’s appalling actions in belarus. it isn’t a discussion about a fake division between migrants and asylum seekers. for us, this is about the fact that there are consistent and constant reports of frontex’s collusion in violent pushbacks on the eu’s external borders – collusion with the libyan coast guard returning thousands to be held arbitrarily in deadly camps, to be raped and tortured, collusion and pushbacks in the aegean sea with people being left to drown, and complicity with the denial of access to asylum in bulgaria, croatia, cyprus, greece, hungary and malta. we are here discussing signing off on its budget. let us be clear about this. frontex is now the commission’s militarisation of the eu’s borders made flesh and given an obscene budget of a half a billion. rather than carrying out its mandate to guarantee a safe, secure and well—functioning border, it has become a weapon in fortress europe. the eu ombudsman and our own scrutiny group have both acknowledged that there are insufficient safeguards in fundamental rights, and this will not change unless they’re held to account. it would be ludicrous for us to approve the budget in these circumstances. this is actually our moment to support the hundreds of journalists and activists who have painstakingly investigated and documented the extreme abuses of this eu agency. it will be a slap in the face to them if we were to turn a blind eye to what’s going on, a slap in the face to the men and women and children who’ve been abused by frontex and a slap in the face for international law. look, we have very little power, but when we do have it, let’s use it for good. that obviously means refusing this discharge – but i think you got that bit!
member of the commission. – mr president, i can be brief. i think to the rapporteur, vice-president charanzová, and your team of shadow rapporteurs, you have got praise from all sides of this house for your work, and i think that is a good compliment to your success this morning. it’s been a long process, because this dates back to the previous parliamentary mandate. so for your commitment to this file, certainly from our side, deep appreciation. and of course, we would also thank the council for their work. i think the debate this morning underlines the european parliament’s commitment to better protection for citizens, and i hope that today’s vote will confirm that we can deliver better eu rules for motor insurance that brings significant benefits for victims and policyholders. and to those members of parliament who raised issues, perhaps for a future time, i have taken good note.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended at 12.32 p.m.) )
i will now move to the second voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 13.45 until 15.00. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare the second voting session open. you have until 15.00 to vote. the results of the second voting session will be announced at 16.30 and the debates will resume at 15.00 with the commission statement: the proposal to build a ‘single market for philanthropy’. (the sitting was suspended at 13.46)
we shall continue with the debates. the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the proposal for a directive on the establishment of an 'internal market for philanthropy' (2021/2937 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i’m here on behalf of commissioner gabriel. but of course, we all have an interest in this topic. and by way of background, in europe, we have more than 147 000 philanthropic organisations with an accumulated annual expenditure of nearly eur 60 billion. just last year, global philanthropic giving, in all its forms, topped eur 660 billion, the highest amount ever. the field of arts and culture is at the core of philanthropy, and it is amongst the most important areas of funding for philanthropic organisations in europe. data shows that nearly half of the european foundation centre’s members have a main focus on arts and culture, and this is welcome. the cultural and creative sectors and industries have been hard hit by the fallout from the covid-19 pandemic. even at a time when the sector is gradually reopening again all across europe, many challenges remain as the financial impact on the sector has been huge. on top of this, natural disasters and the extreme weather we’ve seen this summer has added strain on venues and cultural heritage sites. artists have seen venues closed and not always re-opening. even with steady public funding, the sector remains vulnerable. eurostat data shows that in 2018, cultural services represented, on average, 1% of governments’ expenditure. the amount remains unchanged since 2013. but the story these figures do not tell is that amounts vary greatly from state to state. some member states increase their expenditure, often responding to challenges from the 2008 economic crisis, but others have reduced it, putting greater pressure on a sector that is so important to our economy, to people’s livelihoods and to our sense of community. most countries put in place extraordinary measures just to support their cultural and creative industries during the recent pandemic and confinement. indeed, so did the european union, with the unprecedented nextgenerationeu package and a new mff, which allows a higher number of eu funding sources for the cultural and creative sectors than before. but we know that this support cannot meet all needs. a few examples: a recent survey shows that during the second wave of the pandemic, almost 7 in 10 museums expected budget cuts in the coming years, and they expect that it will be a long time until visits will be back to pre-covid levels. in addition, half of the surveyed museums stated that they had not considered looking into alternative funding sources. so, on the one hand, we have pressure on the horizon. on the other hand, we have no clear, widely implemented way of relieving this pressure, and this brings me directly to the topic of our debate of philanthropy. this philanthropy can help us catalyse a more holistic response to the vast challenges that lie ahead, from climate change to vaccination and social innovation. there is a great disparity amongst legal frameworks relating to philanthropy with regard to arts and artists across europe. corporate giving or donations as tools for corporate philanthropy are considered to be one-sided business transactions where donors contribute with money, time, information, goods and services to another organisation. reasons to donate are therefore largely moral, expected to contribute to social welfare and understood as a pre-social spending or pro-social spending. for instance, in romania, some of the largest private companies have included cultural heritage in their corporate social responsibility support programmes. donations in general are covered by the treaty, and these rules on free movement of capital apply, which create rights both for the donor and the recipient of a donation. this means that donors can donate cross-border and beneficiaries can accept foreign funding. any restrictions by member states need to pursue a legitimate public interest. the commission will ensure that national measures, which restrict capital movements are risk and evidence based and proportionate. two forms of donations can be distinguished. pure donations in which donors stay anonymous and public donations where donors are publicly announced and receive indirect benefits from the promotion of their name in public. donations are generally considered as a deductible expense for corporate income tax purposes. in some environments, the subcategory of patronage is employed as a mechanism to provide support to good causes with some degree of expected return. in public donations and patronage, there is an element of societal recognition and reputation. however, these forms of contribution display a deeper, altruistic dimension than sponsorship actions and do not imply the generation of an immediate and tangible output. in these cases, the boundary amongst public corporate donations and sponsorships may be difficult to draw. the regulatory and strategic frameworks of corporate-giving and patronage are key factors to promote and encourage these practices. in many european countries, donations are encouraged through a variety of different income tax deductions. special fiscal schemes and tax benefits vary widely from state to state. considerations upon legal entities, eligibility and general interest of the activities are important aspects to achieve social and institutional convergence. for instance, spain established a set of deductions applicable to the donations supporting the historical spanish heritage assets. in this framework, the potential impact of non-monetary donations of professional services should also be recognised and encouraged. an additional model to consider is the one based on connecting business with individuals and the arts. a typical scheme is a business to arts found in ireland, where businesses are matched with arts organizations and artists to develop solutions in areas such as sponsorship, commissioning, brand development, training, leadership development, internal and external communications and events. in this setup, business works with artists and arts organisations, providing a range of training opportunities and coaching to help diversify income streams, to grow audiences and improve efficiencies. their corporate membership base and network ranges across the business sectors from local family-run companies, smes, semi-state companies to corporate foundations. another good example can be found in belgium, where the foundation prométhéa aims to develop corporate philanthropy and patronage for cultural and heritage. it facilitates exchanges between different sponsorship actors from political, economic and cultural spheres, and supports to businesses in that patronage strategy. its objective is to increase the number of contributors to, and resources for, patronage, mainly in belgium. the idea to have a single market for philanthropy should embrace all topologies of sources of financing i’ve just mentioned. learning from best practices without prejudice to the possible application of state aid rules. when it comes to supporting arts and culture specifically, dg eac hosted in january a complementary funding workshop for cultural heritage with over 100 good practices from our member states and this included donations and therefore philanthropy, but also many more schemes such as public and private partnerships, lotteries and so forth. in addition, the commission is currently preparing two studies to identify barriers for cross-border activities of social economy actors and map the legal regimes of associations in the european union, including for philanthropy. the upcoming action plan for the social economy will look at these issues with a view to facilitating the implementation of the principle of non-discrimination regarding cross-border donations to public benefit organisations. in this context, the commission follows closely the ongoing work related to the parliament’s own-initiative legislative report on a statute for european cross-border associations and non-profit organisations. thank you, and i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, philanthropy is an important vehicles for supporting and advancing many of the core values of the european union institutions. indeed, philanthropy plays a key role in helping to support and uphold community cohesion and our shared values across the european union. many individuals alongside charitable and philanthropic organisations support endeavours from which we all benefit, including improving educational attainment, raising health care standards, advancing scientific development and tackling climate change. however, while goods and services can travel freely across the eu, philanthropic support does not have such an easy passage to our continent, whether studying, travelling or running a business in europe, national borders have become a thing of the past. yet philanthropy does not yet benefit from the full opportunities that a single market creates. there are a 147 000 public benefit organisations across europe, with an annual giving of over 60 billion. however, only a small percentage of these funds make it across internal european borders. establishing a single market philanthropy would enable greater levels of citizens action, while at the same time complementing eu funds, expertise and activities. in saying this, we are seeing steps being taken in the right direction. the decision of the european commission to include a partnership with philanthropy in its proposal for the investeu fund, of which i was honoured to be a rapporteur, is most welcome. in 2019, we held a debate in this chamber where a strong, cross-party alliance emerged for the need to support the untapped potential of philanthropic foundations and civil society organisations across the eu. since then, the need to establish a single market for philanthropy has only strengthened. philanthropy can help solve problems that are now more interconnected than ever before, but it could also be more effective if it enjoyed a better operating environment and better protection mechanisms. i want to see philanthropy continue to support european values and collaborate with key stakeholders across society and across borders to tackle rising inequality and help connect with citizens and their needs. a single market for philanthropy has the potential to build upon the existing ambitions of the investeu fund and to deliver on the economy that works for people. to do this, there is need for an eu study on philanthropy. currently, only two countries in the world, the netherlands and the us, are engaged in regular macroeconomic research to estimate the overall philanthropic contributions of households, legacies, foundations, companies and charities. as it is such a valuable figure representing european solidarity, we should engage in generating qualitative data on this phenomena for the whole european union. let’s take the opportunity to mobilise our resources and deliver change.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, speaking about europe means speaking about solidarity and about potential. potential we constantly need to free up, to watch, to maintain. this can mean, for example, making private resources available for the public good, informal financial means. but the nations are unaware of what the term ‘philanthropy’ refers to: it is about time resources, expertise and network. europe’s success is made of people dedicated, their skills and competences, to the european dream. they do this in diverse forms of expertise and civil engagement in foundations and associations, as corporate and individual donors in small—scale work or actions. they all form the backbone of our society. but just as a backbone stays under the surface of the skin, philanthropic organisations are mostly working behind the scenes, operating a little bit under the radar. they are often acting in the space where neither government nor commercial sector wants to act. moreover, they are ready to take risks when experimenting with innovative solutions, and this played back during the covid—19 crisis. foundations and civil society organisations had been quick to respond. they mitigated the crisis in pooling emergency funds, helped bridge the gap in public provision by supporting the most affected communities with medical and food aid, social assistance, as well as research to fight the virus. lately, we learned from the covid—19 pandemic that issues do not stop at borders, so that’s also not philanthropy. stakeholders, donors and organisations work more and more across borders with partners from all over europe. institutional philanthropy in europe includes more than 147 000 philanthropic organisations, with a combined annual expenditure of nearly eur 60 billion. they support a wide range of projects in the field of research and innovation, environmental protection, social care, culture and youth democracy, to name just a few. imagine this huge potential, a potential that cannot take full effect even within the european union; complex rules hinder cross—border philanthropy in the form of multiple legal, administrative and fiscal barriers. these concern larger and old foundations investing their assets across borders by, for example, supporting start—ups or social enterprises with social impact investment. it concerns the giving of funds by public benefit organisations, but it also hits hard on the donors giving cross—border. further restrictions to foreign funding still makes it difficult for philanthropic organisations to find formal banking channels to transport philanthropic money across borders. ladies and gentlemen, i’m grateful that commissioner vestager, commissioners reynders and breton, all showed their interest for this truly european topic. and that commissioner mcguinness, who has been a true ally in this topic since the beginning. i also would like to thank in particular my dear colleague and vice—president of the european parliament nicola beer for her tireless work. the parliament, commission and council – i think it’s time to act. there is a lot of potential.
in the late 1950s and 1960s, the german-american political scientist ernst bernard haas wrote about european integration. he wrote that the established nation-state would withdraw completely. he predicted that gradually, bit by bit, officials, interest groups, and large commercial enterprises within states would see it in their interests to pursue political and economic integration at a higher, supranational level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that is what we are seeing today with the european union, where voluntary cooperation with democratic legitimacy has given way to a bureaucratic management layer in brussels that is coming to control more and more aspects of our lives. a top-down structure that is constantly seeking further harmonization, merger and centralization. a legislature that makes laws on the basis of working groups made up of technocrats, lobbyists, multinationals and ngos. the unielevers and the shells, but also the philanthropists of this world, no longer look to national politics for their interests but to the european commission, which further puts national democracy on the sidelines, puts smes at a disadvantage and deprives the population of its sense of activity and community. what we are seeing today is another step in that direction - the proposal to create an internal market for philanthropy. what is wrong with the ordinary common market? and isn't there anyone here wondering who asked for this? where did this idea come from? and whose interests are served here? not the ones we, the common people, have. we are not against the european union and as a trading country my country, the netherlands, benefits greatly from a strong common market. these advantages benefit all countries and allow countries to retain a great deal of their sovereignty. but the people of berlaymont are arrogant and systematically ignore the wishes of the population. they know what's going on in people's lives, but they don't really understand it. we must therefore provide a counterbalance. we do not want to see an eu run by all kinds of managers. we want a streamlined and flexible cooperation with a focus on free trade, and that does not require a bureaucratic philanthropy market. it is the only way to prevent our countries from sliding into a 'yes and amen' situation, leaving citizens out of their own lives.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, there’s no doubt about it, our world has many problems. but the one thing that’s definitely not going to fix them is billionaire-funded social change, when it’s the very existence of billionaires like bill gates or jeff bezos or denis o’brien that’s responsible for a lot of the problems that we have in the first place. so, no, we shouldn’t have a free market in philanthropy. we shouldn’t allow philanthropic capital to flow across borders unimpeded. the point is, there shouldn’t be any billionaires, and we certainly shouldn’t be making it easier for them to hide their fortunes in so-called charitable foundations. obscene wealth doesn’t come from working hard earning a wage like a normal person, it only comes from exploiting people on a vast scale or by inheriting it from somebody else who did. and yet, here we are arguing for them to be able to keep their wealth, use it however they like without oversight and pretending that this is going to make things different. this is nonsense. of course, what we should be saying is ‘tax them’. tax wealth and not just income. close tax loopholes, eliminate tax havens, redistribute wealth, develop public services so people don’t have to fund-raise. but also we should be looking at casting down the system that made them so wealthy in the first place. but i think there’s a sickening irony that we’re here on a thursday, discussing how to make the eu a playground for these donors, when we’ve had nothing to say for over a decade about the blank blockade on the donations of ordinary people who wanted to use their money to fund wikileaks, an organisation that genuinely challenged society and argued for transformation to change. their founder, julian assange – hounded, imprisoned, spied on, plots to kidnap and kill him – next wednesday will go into a london court to fight his extradition to the us where he faces a life sentence for telling the truth. why aren’t we talking about that? i’ll be at that court case, where will you be?
mr president, the structure of philanthropy around the world is increasingly a manifestation of plutocracy. it is government by the wealthy, at a time when actual government is shrinking and when, in many cases, philanthropic funds replace public spending and government functions. it is increasingly an exercise of private power, which often exacerbates rather than redresses inequality. we need global tax justice, not charitable scraps dictated by the whims of the élite. non-profit organisations can provide an important function in terms of civic engagement and participation. but many ngos and non-profits are also deeply politicised. there is a booming human rights industry that instrumentalises human rights for the purpose of western imperialism, to destabilise governments of sovereign states and to facilitate regime change. these non-profits are part of the problem, not part of the solution. we need to change tax policy to benefit small donors and those in need. and we should stop allowing the rich avoid paying their taxes by giving money to their pet projects, which usually serve to increase inequality. lastly, i’d like to thank the wonderful staff of santry sports clinic, where i had a shoulder operation last saturday, and the staff were absolutely wonderful. they came from all over the world and they were so good, and i have also a special thanks as well to the magnificent surgeon, hannan mullett. thank you very much and i also will be at the trial for julian assange next week in pursuit of justice.
madam president, democracy cannot be preserved if freedom of the media, freedom of assembly and freedom of association are not guaranteed, encouraged and respected. these are the key to the foundation of our eu and of each of our member states. the use of strategic lawsuits against public participation, or slapps, as we commonly know them, filed against people or organisations who speak out on public issues, are clear attacks on the values we protect daily. they are often designed to be never ending, to intimidate, harass and deplete the resources of diligent citizens to stop them from speaking out. over the past few years we have heard in this very house many examples of backsliding in some member states with regard to human rights, and of several journalists being murdered for reporting on corruption. it is essential that we work collectively to improve the democratic space available for all of our citizens and ensure that civil society organisations and journalists report on, and bring the light needed to, important issues affecting citizens right across our eu. if we continue to ignore the growing use and issue of slapps, we turn our back on the protection of our democracy and the individuals and organisations who work to make our union a safer place. finally, eu-level attention to this issue is needed and we must now continue to work to ensure that national legislation follows suit.
madam president, i welcome the report. fundamental rights and the rule of law are cornerstones of the european union, so we have to ensure that we have freedom for the individual and freedom of the press, the media and the judiciary. that is clearly a fundamental cornerstone of any modern, vibrant democracy that holds power to account. the day that we turn our back on journalism and the integrity, independence, freedom and fearlessness of journalism, well we undermine all our basic freedoms and rights. i do urge the commission to look at this report and to try to take it on board and remove the obstacles and the threats to a free, independent media. certainly, strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapps) do put a fear factor on individuals. they can be used by governments, public authorities and corporations to quieten dissent, to quieten questioning – and that is something that i take very, very seriously. we need to insist that the european union and all the other political institutions support the media, support independent integrity of journalism and ensure that they are also supported by an independent judiciary, which is also under attack in many countries in our european union.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i welcome the recent agreement by the oecd in terms of the g20 and the140 countries that subscribed to that agreement. i also want to point out that there is a clear obligation to ensure that we have tax transparency, but sometimes tax competitiveness gets caught up in the same debate around tax transparency and ireland would have been a country that is very competitive in terms of taxation, but is also transparent. so i do believe that sometimes some of the language that is used conflates the two. may i say at the outset, there is no doubt that we have a challenge here in the european union because when we talk about taxation, we have to accept that it is still a national competency. of course, the commission, in its wisdom, from time to time uses article 51 in terms of the treaty on the functioning of europe to address this particular issue around the disclosure of income tax information by certain undertaking and branches. i am just concerned that we are undermining the credibility and the integrity of the treaties and if we are to move to a situation where tax is no longer a competency of sovereigns, well then, we should at least have that discussion. i certainly am of the view that until such time as there is a fundamental change in the treaties, well then, it is a matter for the member states. clearly there has been a move in recent times by the commission to try and bring taxation out of the articles that it should be under, in terms of articles 113 and 115, and move them into other areas. as recently as last year, dáil éireann, my national parliament published a reasoned opinion that the proposal made here under article 50(1) – freedom of establishment – was in effect, moving the goalposts. and ,of course, this is done with the purpose of removing the threat of the veto. it is done with the purpose of going from unanimity to qualified majority voting. if we are to have that debate, let us be honest and upfront about it, but don’t have the commission coming in with proposals under articles where it was never envisaged when the treaties were passed and ratified. so if you want to change those issues, have that discussion and ask the citizens of europe to change it.
mr president, i welcome the collective work to deliver an eu education area aimed to enrich the quality inclusiveness of national education systems by 2025. it’s both ambitious and progressive. in ireland right now, we’re beginning these conversations in reshaping aspects of our national curriculum, creating a curriculum for all, recognising that all students offer a range of skills. we need to desperately break the barrier for those who believe education is for a certain age, at a certain time, or memorising a page of information and regurgitating it, is education. therefore, it is encouraging to see the commission place the eu skills agenda and the vocational educational and training (vet) policy within the plans for this new education area. by focusing and delivering to our students holistically and with initiatives like aim, learn, master, achieve (alma) providing increased vet support, we improve the skills, knowledge and life experience of all our learners. i welcome the focus of this report and let us continue to collaborate and strengthen our education systems.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to speak on this report. i think it’s important that we do have a collective embracement of education across the continent. we have to accept that we need to ensure we have recognition of skills – both in terms of learning but also in terms of teaching. for too long we’ve had a disparate approach to education. i also accept that the education process is part of member state competency. but above and beyond that, if you look at what the erasmus programme has achieved in recent times in terms of third—level students being able to travel abroad, to learn abroad, to live abroad, and to love abroad, we certainly need to get that concept across the entire plethora of the educational strata. so i would certainly urge that the report, when being adopted and the eu commission coming forward, would look at the bologna process and accept that we do need to ensure that skills and competencies are approached across the entire european union. equally and finally, with regard to language, it is a failure of the european union that we haven’t gotten a process of proper language training capabilities across the entire continent. so language skills, teacher skills and education skills and competencies across the entire eurozone, and recognition of the same, is an important factor to ensure the bologna process can move ahead.
mr president, i find it interesting listening to this debate on education. all my life, i have found education to be a driver of inequality. and people are talking in here tonight as if education drives equality. well, i haven’t seen it in my lifetime. and right now, the eu can pay all the lip service it likes to education, but you’re spending more and more on military than you are on education. you are increasing military spend faster than you are increasing education spend. so where’s the logic? i mean, how can you argue that you care about it? the amount of inequality across our educational system right across europe is frightening. and there’s no effort being made, as far as i can see, to lift the less well—off up to a level where they get a fair opportunity and a fair chance. i have never seen it yet in my lifetime, and i don’t see it progressing with a neoliberal eu that prioritises the interests of big business before those of the citizens.
mr president, on this report, there’s no doubt we need to ensure there is strong collaboration across the european union in the area of metrology itself. we have to ensure that, when we are involved in this, that we use the best scientific evidence available to us and that can only be brought about if we quantify it and measure it and have the proper statistics available for us, in terms of policymakers, in terms of government, in terms of industry, to ensure that when they are making decisions, there are basing them on the most up-to-date, scientific evidence available through proper measurement. we also have to accept that we’re in a changing period – global warming, climate change, medical devices, medicines, atomic research, atomic science – that there are key significant areas that are taking us into areas of the unknown. and in going there, we have to ensure that we have the best evidence available to us in terms of quantifying and measurement. so, from that perspective, i think the european partnership on metrology is very welcome, and i think it will be significant not only for research and innovation, but also filtering out into the broader education curriculum right across the european union. so i very much welcome this report and i hope that we can get on with implementing its recommendations.
mr president, the protection of intellectual property rights is of fundamental importance in ensuring that there’s creativity and innovation and investment in the whole area of research. of course, the collaboration across the european union is significant and what we need to do is when you are protecting intellectual property rights that that percolates down into the universities, and that there is a strong collaboration between industry and universities in creativity, in innovation and research. so from that perspective, i do very much welcome this report. of course, we also have to be equally conscious of the fact that when intellectual property rights are stolen, very often they percolate into the criminal aspects of the world. so you will see that quite significant intellectual property rights, in terms of theft, on a regular basis and that very often funds criminal organisations and criminal entities. of course, as we become more dynamic and digital-centred, we have to also accept that intellectual property rights can be stolen very, very easily through cyber-crime as well. so from that perspective, we also have to ensure that we have strong resilience in our digital space to protect intellectual property rights in general and ensure that creativity, research and innovation isn’t stolen by cyber-crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not often that i have two good words to say about the commission's work, to my colleagues, but in this case it is. miracles are happening tonight. i congratulate the rapporteur. the report is timely, especially in view of the need to protect small and medium-sized enterprises at a time when every single job matters. i am even more pleased that this report lacked the usual ideologies and progressive utopias. so congratulations to your colleague and good luck.
mr president, i was struck by a piece in the report which says that parliament ‘stresses that a more equitable distribution of vaccines around the globe is essential for effectively combating the spread of covid—19 and its mutations, and the need to support global access to covid—19 vaccines; notes that the lack of access to affordable vaccines is still a major challenge in developing countries; supports, therefore, the commission and the member states in their efforts to push non—eu countries to lift current export bans and to step up the donation of vaccines’. listen, this is the pot calling the kettle black. twenty—seven member states of the eu had a meeting as to whether they would lift intellectual property rights to allow developing countries who couldn’t afford to pay big pharma for the vaccine, and 27 member states voted against allowing them to get access to the intellectual rights and the knowledge to make them themselves. unfortunately, the eu has made the vaccine a racist issue. it has made it an apartheid issue. lately, only a couple of weeks ago, a malaysian badminton team went to ireland and some of the players were told they couldn’t play because they’d had the sinovac vaccine, even though the who recognises it. what is going on?
mr president, in a week’s time, the young humanitarian worker, seán binder, along with 20 others, will face trial on the island of lesbos. their crime: providing a warm and often lifesaving welcome to people on one of the most dangerous migration routes in the world. they stand accused of espionage because they used whatsapp, an encrypted messaging app used by almost everyone in this room. they are accused of being members of a criminal organisation, a humanitarian ngo which worked with local authorities to distribute blankets and basic medical care. in short, they stand accused of showing humanity. international law demands that we provide assistance to people in distress at sea and refuge to those who seek it. yet member states have pursued similar charges against at least 180 humanitarian workers like seán in efforts to criminalise these acts of basic humanity. tonight, i ask the european parliament to join with me in calling for these charges to be dropped and for true solidarity on eu borders.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, the authorities said that vaccinated people could not transmit the covid virus and could not have the more severe forms of the disease, but today it is evident that they can. all the statistics from the european media agencies confirm this. i don't want to tell anyone here whether they should get vaccinated or not. i just want us to look at all the facts about the benefits of vaccination and to look together, based on the facts, for ways to fight the pandemic, not to dogmatically glorify vaccination and to put pressure on people and blackmail people for it. the decision to vaccinate should be truly a free decision for every man. i have already appealed to the commission on several occasions to invest much more money and resources in the treatment of covid. i'm doing it again. we don't really have to argue about vaccines and divide people up. vaccinate whoever wants to, and we all want to strengthen natural immunity and make a big difference in the treatment of the sick. we really need to fight this pandemic together.
i would like to speak to the european initiative on citizenship "no profit on pandemic". covid-19 is spreading like wildfire. it is therefore a matter of urgency for the european commission to ensure that there is a right to justice for everyone, no matter what country they are from. i'll give you a public statement on the vaccine being developed. so it's not right to go to other bodies and do things that are unfair to them. i'm also very happy to see everyone in the community signing up to noprofitonpandemic.eu. the commission shall adopt laws in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 7 of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001.
mr president, we are still stronger than the volcano, let no one doubt it, but every day costs us more; it has been fifty-two days since the eruption of the volcano on my isla bonita and there it is, damaging homes, farms and infrastructure, but above all in the spirit of the palm trees: believe me that listening to the uninterrupted roar of the volcano for days and days is something difficult to bear. solidarity has been an example in everything, and so has the action of the administrations, but we must go one step further: aid must be provided now, we must move from words to deeds in spain and in europe. the victims need solutions to this catastrophe that has already changed their lives forever and they need them now: bureaucracy cannot be an impediment. the palm and the palm trees are looking to europe more than ever. we will resist, we will remain stronger than the volcano, but in this situation europe cannot fail us.
mr president, any review of the common fisheries policy has to have two words at its heart in terms of its assessment of what we must do into the future: sustainability and fairness. sustainability of fishing stocks, but also sustainability of fishing coastal communities, and fairness and burden-sharing have to be at the heart of the decisions that we will make between now and the end of next year on how we go about sharing the seas of the european union. brexit has had a catastrophic effect on irish fishing. this year alone, we will lose eur 20 million and by 2026, we will have lost eur 43 million of value in terms of fish landed. ireland cannot get involved in sharing of quotas simply because we don’t have enough quota to share in the first place. and other countries are not catching their full quota allocations. and yet at the same time, we are told that we can share with those countries. we simply cannot give what we don’t have. so i would suggest that, in the meantime, there should be a ‘use it or lose it’ in terms of countries who do not take up their full fishing quota allocation. but, in the meantime, the common fisheries policy must be fair and it must be fair to irish fishers, who have 6% of the quota and 22% of the seas.
i would like to ask you, madam president, to come to order on the term 'anti-democratic'.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). these are all issues that many people go to bed with every day and wake up with every day. everything is getting more expensive. inflation hasn't been this high in decades. they say this is due to the corona crisis and that this is temporary. but is that so? the free money has been banging on the plinths of brussels and frankfurt for years. but where does the money go? the answer is: a very expensive green deal, too much bureaucratic government and support for countries that can't keep their own pants up. we take a euro, pump it full of steroids and call this a sustainable investment. the people back home are paying the price. it is time for the eu to look at the real needs and requirements of the people who elected this parliament, rather than at vague visions.
mr president, the sharp rise in electricity prices, which is putting enormous pressure on many households and on micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, is inseparable from the choices made by the european union: liberalization and privatisation of the sector, the maintenance of oligopolistic markets, in which prices are cartelled and the methodologies adopted guarantee astronomical profits, and, more recently, the creation and operation of the carbon market, whose derivatives are traded on the stock exchange in a speculative manner. it is necessary to increase the transparency of the markets, to ensure that consumer prices reflect the costs of production and not the colossal profits allowed to the economic groups in the sector. the need to restore public ownership of the energy sector is due mainly to social, environmental and economic imperatives. we must abandon the so-called market solutions in tackling climate change, which are clearly perverse and ineffective from the point of view of the environmental objectives they proclaim, as is the case with emissions trading, which the glasgow conference has unfortunately once again endorsed.
mr president, commissioner, the pandemic crisis of almost two years has certainly done a lot of damage to the economy, but the worst thing is that it has caused many human casualties and could have saved many people, at least, i know and know very well, in my country, romania. there's no coherent strategy, we have no drugs. it's not right and it's not fair and it's not humane that the chronically ill don't have access to hospitals, don't exist for cancer, for cancer treatment. and yet, even now, after two years, we have no antiviral drugs, we have no prevention, we have no testing, we have no isolation. it's all about the vaccine. do we still have a single market? no, it is fragmented. do workers still have the right to work? no, because they are directly or indirectly banned from working, even though the regulation i voted for here clearly states that member states should not use this regulation as a vaccine requirement. the commission intends - and i am asking for it - to carry out a country-by-country inquiry. what happens to citizens' rights, to workers' rights, to the free movement of citizens?
mr president, i was in nicaragua for the elections at the weekend. i witnessed the voting process. i witnessed the celebrations of the people. the majority of the people of nicaragua were happy. but no surprise that the us empire and the neo-liberal eu were not. they used the excuse that some political opponents of the sandinistas were in prison. but as far as i remember, people in germany and france who commit violent crimes are also put in prison. the recent statements from meps and eu officials on the nicaraguan elections have no basis in reality, are an affront to the people of nicaragua and the un charter’s principle of non-interference. countries like nicaragua, cuba, venezuela and bolivia have been fighting colonialism for over 200 years. they have suffered from the brutal western-backed military dictatorships, military invasions and occupations, and now sanctions are killing tens of thousands each year. the only crime of these nations is that they have pushed back against the most brutal abuses of capitalist exploitation in order to help their own people.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, the life of political parties is an essential pillar of european democracy. it allows, beyond the electoral deadlines, to animate political debates and to shape the choices of our citizens. a regulation has been introduced to regulate the life of these european political parties and in particular to contribute to their funding. the report on which we are now voting takes stock of the application of this regulation and makes proposals to improve it. several points are agreed by all. first, the inclusion by european political parties of members from former eu member states, future eu member states and parties from third countries in the european area. this is essential, especially after brexit. secondly, the easing of excessive standards which penalise those of the smaller parties who cannot bear the work and funding burden. finally, simplification of the accounting of the income of parties linked to their activist activities such as sales of documents, and the widening of their scope of action allowing them to become more involved in political campaigns in europe. one point has led to a major disagreement: until now, the amount of funding for each political party has been based on the membership of the members of parliament. our rapporteur proposes that this should be linked to the number of votes cast in the european elections. this proposal is ineffective and potentially dangerous. it's not effective. to imagine that the treasurer of a political party could mobilise abstentionists by launching an appeal to bail out his party's coffers is clearly more than wishful thinking. that's exactly the wrong idea. and secondly, she's dangerous. every election generates coalitions and it is the freedom of parties to be able to make electoral agreements. with mr wieland's proposal, components of these coalitions - the minority components - would be clearly exposed to losing their resources if a disagreement arose with the majority representation of the coalition. the risk of such a situation cannot be taken. that would be an attack on european democracy.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, your report on european political parties seems to support your federalist obsessions and to weaken the nationalists, your only opponents. transnational lists for the european elections, compulsory respect for your values, poisoned by your ideology, that's all there is to it. you even dare to write that political parties must be the mouthpieces of european union policy. but this moment of triumph is preparing your own debacle. on the administrative side, firstly, this report contradicts years of absurd practices of the european parliament, which claimed that political parties should not carry out political activities, but only work on the construction of the euro-globalist superstate. you have persecuted our elected officials on this insane logic. today you finally admit the obvious: we are national representatives in the european parliament who must put our parliamentary resources at the service of political activities. on the democratic side, you finally recognize the essential nature of the diversity of ideas. but in this prison-like europe that you have built, the only voice that is different is ours, that of the peoples and nations opposed to your globalist and liberal vision. that voice you fight so hard against. on 2 july, 16 political parties across europe signed a joint declaration on the future of europe which puts us on a par with the siamese brothers of the pseudo-right and the socialists. this joint declaration, whose signatories are in power or about to come to power, will put an end to your federalist nightmare and open the way to the europe of nations which we all wish to see and which marine le pen will embody in france tomorrow.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, there should, of course, be more transparency in the financing of european political parties but we have to accept that the european political party system is not how you foster engagement with european politics. instead of complaining that citizens don’t engage, we should look at the reasons why. the fact is that for european citizens, the eu is distant, undemocratic and indifferent to their concerns because the politics that people actually care about have no outlet here. the reforms that are necessary – the repeal of neoliberal policy, massive state investment to reverse the decline in living standards – are illegal under eu treaties and fiscal constraints. irish citizens voted no nice, no to lisbon. we were forced to change our mind and vote again. we were promised our neutrality would not be impacted yet we’re galloping towards a nato-backed european defence union. no matter how much funding you pump into propaganda campaigns from unfamiliar european political parties, they’re not going to cut it. if we want european citizens to participate, we have to give them a stake and we should start by abolishing the treaties.
madam president, the statute and funding of political parties are, in any democracy, a fundamental part of the rules of the democratic game. the improvement of these rules, as proposed in this excellent report by our colleagues goerens and wieland, is undoubtedly an important contribution to the qualification of our democracy at european level. apart from the question of the financing rules, which has already been discussed here, two aspects seem to merit special attention. first, the requirement of respect for the fundamental european principles and values as a condition for the registration of european parties, which should be monitored in the framework of the announced european commission action plan for european democracy. secondly, the enhancement of the visibility of european political parties, including through the association of their logos with campaign materials and other forms of communication of national parties. these amendments would be very concrete ways of promoting the recognition by the citizens of a genuine european democracy.
madam president, i find this a strange way to address the disconnect between the european institutions and the citizenry of europe. i really think that you don’t seem to understand why the citizens of europe feel that distance with this place. we don’t actually represent them very well and since the nice treaty and the lisbon treaty, this is a neoliberal club, and neoliberalism puts the interests of big business before those of the citizens. right now, we are increasing our spend on military in europe. the militarisation of europe is going off the richter scale. so, we’re increasing our spending on military, but not on housing, not on health, in comparison. i mean, what are our priorities? and we talk about our values all the time. the citizens don’t know what are the fundamental values of the european union. are they supporting israel’s genocide of the palestinians, the war in yemen? because you do support it and you are supporting the militarisation of europe. are these our real values? the people are disconnected, for sure.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, this deal is yet another example of the eu putting the interests of big business before ordinary people. real, transparent country-by-country reporting would force companies to report their profits on tax paid in every country they operate in, not just eu countries and those countries on the eu blacklist and greylist. the fact that information on other non-eu countries will only be available on an aggregate global basis is a bit of a joke. that’s three quarters of the countries in the world. not one of the world’s worst 15 tax havens is on the eu blacklist. the fact that the reporting requirement will only apply to companies with an annual consolidated turnover above 750 million, will exclude 85-90% of multinationals. yet the deal is better than nothing, but it does not make the eu a global leader in a fight against tax avoidance. we are going to let multinational corporations off the hook to continue dodging taxes by shifting the profits to tax havens outside of the eu.
mr president, it is with mixed emotions that i support this trilogue deal. on the one hand, i welcome any greater transparency over tax affairs. this is simply about openness and some level of public scrutiny of the tax affairs of companies, some of which have turnovers equivalent to the gdp of small countries. however, i deplore the actions of the irish government and others in diluting and trying to block this legislation. again without any logical reasoning, the irish government has set itself apart and sets its stall against transparency and fairness. we are now entering a new phase where the oecd deal gives us a new framework. the challenge now for ireland is to repair its reputation, and opposing positive moves like this does the country no favours. go raibh maith agaibh go léir.
mr president, i voted against the report by mrs jönscheva because it contains controversial points. for example, the implementation part of the monitoring mechanism, article 14 (4) to (6), and the related intervention part, article 22, provide that in situations of disproportionate pressure or inefficiency of asylum and reception systems, and if the member state does not implement the recommendations of the monitoring mechanism, the council may request the member state to accept the deployment of teams of the european union agency for asylum. i believe that this is a disproportionate interference in the internal affairs of the member states and is contrary to the treaties on the european union. i support stronger border control action and support for countries that are external borders of the union, and this should be tailored to the needs of national agencies and ministries. i am also against the obligation for national authorities and the european union agency for asylum to cooperate with ngos in managing the illegal immigration crisis. we all know that some of these ngos are actually involved in trafficking and illegal activities to bring illegal immigrants into the territory of the union. this is not something that should be supported or legalized.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted today for the creation of a european asylum agency. migration and refugee issues are more topical than ever, as the developments at the polish-belarusian border show. it is therefore important that the eu develops the asylum support office into a full-fledged agency with more powers of access. it is particularly important to me that the agency coordinates crossborder cooperation between member states on asylum issues, thus promoting cohesion among member states.
mr president, i voted for this report on serious cross-border threats to health because of the practical implications of the brexit withdrawal agreement and the northern ireland protocol in terms of the impact on the pharmaceutical industry and the serious potential impact on patient access to generic medicines in northern ireland and related issues in the rest of ireland. there really remains a high degree of uncertainty around the commissioner’s recent proposals to help stable medicines supply into northern ireland when the current post-brexit derogations end on 31 december, and really time is running out. at the same time, there’s uncertainty regarding the uk’s plans. so patients deserve clarity now to stop them worrying and to stop the stockpiling or shortages. and i really think that the commission needs to urgently confirm its commitment to continue the current temporary derogations on medicines rules to ensure a stable supply in northern ireland to ease patient concerns and help the medicine makers plan correctly. the commission has to give a deadline in which it will publish its legislative proposal to give effect to the solutions proposed in its non-paper of july 2016 entitled ‘medicines and the implementation of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland’.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 pandemic has once again exposed the european union's vulnerability to public health, its lack of preparedness and experience to deal with crises, to protect the citizens of the member states, and to force member states to do what they can, costing us thousands of lives. today, this threat has not gone away, but along with it, the european union faces an economic and, with it, a migrant crisis. i supported the report because i believe that to tackle crises of this scale, instruments need to be put in place at european level. we need to strengthen coordination so that we can help the most vulnerable member states, which have long been and still remain on the periphery of the european union. it is important for europe to show that it puts the health of its citizens ahead of the political and economic interests of certain countries. that's how we'll regain the trust of the citizens.
mr president, early in the pandemic there was a serious lack of solidarity shown by the eu with certain member states, particularly italy, who were hammered by covid and abandoned by the eu. the vote today concerns the addition by parliament of certain elements in relation to the european health emergency and response authority into the serious cross—border threats regulation. the amendment to ensure transparency in relation to the giant procurement of vaccines and therapeutics is certainly positive. yet there is no reference to civil society oversight in relation to advance purchase agreements. therefore, negotiations will continue to be carried on behind closed doors. there is nothing in relation to future advance purchase agreements that would guarantee global access and affordability, as well as the transfer of manufacturing know—how. vaccines should be a public good for everyone that wants it, including the global south. doing secret deals with big pharma behind closed doors is really soul—destroying for the people of europe.
mr president, i was a shadow on this report, it is extremely important and timely because there is a serious threat to the media. but i have to say it is been weakened by the fact that the inclusion of the amendment on julian assange, which is actually the mother of all strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapps), did not pass. this is a publisher who bravely published information in the public interest in 2010 – exposing war crimes by the us military – being prosecuted for espionage. the publisher was working in an eu country. the us government is exerting extraterritorial jurisdiction over journalism conducted in europe. the intention was not just to silence assange, it was strategic, to warn all other publishers worldwide of national security reporting about serious challenges to us power. indeed, the incarceration of assange has already resulted in that chilling effect, and it is regrettable considering that the european and international federations of journalists recognise this and have called for the case to be dropped. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe recognises it, the un human rights commissioner recognises it and many others. it is an awful pity that our motion didn’t pass today.
(the beginning of the speech was not made at the microphone) ... this report and i voted for it because a community of european values cannot exist without access to information and free speech. journalists, activists and ngos are the guardians of democracy. they become targets of abusive actions by the corrupt, actions designed to intimidate and even hurt. it's been four years since journalist daphne galizia was murdered for exposing corruption. in romania, journalists are prosecuted for investigations into corruption crimes. at the protest on august 10, journalists who were covering the abuses of the security forces were gassed and beaten. journalists who report on illegal logging are constantly threatened and harassed. we can't stay away any longer. i call on the commission to recognise the real threat to the rule of law posed by these practices. we can't turn a blind eye and leave journalists alone and exposed. legislation is needed to prevent and combat abuses, and magistrates are needed to dismiss them and protect freedom of expression.
mr president, last november, my independents 4 change colleague, clare daly, tabled an amendment to the annual report on the situation on fundamental rights in the eu. it stated: ‘whereas journalists and other media actors in the eu face multiple attacks, threats and pressures from state and non-state actors; whereas the detention and criminal prosecution of julian assange sets a dangerous precedent for journalists, as affirmed by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe’. it was actually a factual amendment designed to protect journalists and whistleblowers, but it was voted down by almost all of the epp, renew and s&ds. that gives you an idea of the flavour of this place. i am voting in favour of this report. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs have done good work here, and the principles aspired to in the text are to be lauded. if you share the view that journalism should be free to challenge power, and that this freedom helps create a vibrant democracy, then you must see the plight of julian assange as the most monumental media-freedom case in recent history. and you should be campaigning for his release, and stop the persecution of julian assange.
mr president, an intellectual property plan for the eu is certainly incredibly important for our recovery. but to achieve that, we need a healthy european union ipo office, it’s absolutely key. i know the organisation has requested an extra 247 posts. this is unprecedented and would certainly help, but we also need to look at the issue of staff retention. i’m aware that high-level staff had contracts recently not renewed despite that. this is a well-established practice and there should only be exceptional reasons why this wouldn’t happen. i am acutely aware of the need to retain irish staff, given that our numbers are falling across eu institutions, and it’s very important that we retain women in senior positions. it’s a fact that 50% of the internal audit team in the eu ipo are retiring over the next period, so we do need to retain a skill set if we’re to achieve the ambition outlined in the plan. a staff survey recently said many staff were afraid to speak out. there’s no point in us waffling on about workers’ rights in other institutions if we don’t respect them on our own. we’ve got to have a clean eu ipo office if we’re going to implement this plan.
madam president, sport has the beautiful ability and unique power to promote positive change, to inspire and unite, regardless of age, sex, ethnic origin, religion, background or socio—economic status. a majority of us had sports built into our development from a young age, and despite us having different national sports team or home—team favourites, the educational, culture and social dimensions of sport connect us all. i welcome the strong focus within the text presenting the need to foster better equality and diversity when it comes to sport within our eu. accessibility is essential. not only must we actively attempt to increase the visibility given to competitions involving female athletes and those with disabilities, we must create a space where we’re encouraging everyone to participate – one that is both inclusive and supportive. we consistently hear of the foundation of problems that exist in women’s teams, especially within our sporting culture: harassment, discrimination, gender stereotypes, a consistent lack of media coverage for their achievements, wage disparity and a disgraceful lack in funding. i’m proud that one example referenced in this text is an irish one – the football association of ireland, who committed to equal pay for all their professional athletes. we need to shape our eu sports policies with our values: democracy, human rights, equality, diversity and solidarity. we need to stand up even more boldly, both on and off the pitch.
dear vice president, dear commissioner, dear colleague dolors, thank you for your report. until the coronavirus pandemic, the european union's self-sufficiency problem in a strategic area such as pharmaceutical manufacturing may have gone under the radar. the pandemic was a wake-up call that revealed how dependent we are on products and supply chains outside our union. the crisis has shown that we are too dependent on china and third countries when it comes to pharmaceutical products. the commission's figures are telling: 40% of finished medicinal products placed on the union market originate from third countries. i believe that it would be wise to use the logic of large numbers when procuring medicines and medical equipment for member states, in order to improve affordability. i welcome this report and support the emphasis it places on the importance of new joint european union public procurement contracts between the commission and the member states, in particular for emergency medicines. it would be good to investigate such practices in areas such as rare diseases and cancer. we need a strong european health union, a vital sector and a stronger strategic economy. we understand the challenges, and we need to use them as a value-add and a paradigm shift in health care. thank you very much.
madam president, the pandemic has reaffirmed the limitations of current value chain management and access to medicines and vaccines. but shortages of medicines in the european union are a longstanding problem and the number of incidents related to shortages has increased in recent years. an effective pharmaceutical strategy should include measures aimed not only at alleviating drug shortages but also at preventing them by analysing their root causes. it should also foster strategic autonomy and ensure security of supply, in particular by diversifying supply chains for medicines and essential medicines, including european production units and public procurement. equitable access to safe, effective and affordable medicines is a fundamental right and the full realisation of this right requires a society that puts health first and pharmaceutical research and innovation guided by public health objectives. there will be no strategy that works as long as the options and the power are in the hands of the pharmaceutical multinationals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, treating the sick is the most humane thing we can do, and that's why it's good to support the development of pharmaceuticals. but the pharmaceutical industry is also one of the most profitable businesses in the world. what is our main goal - is it health or is it money? if it's health, then we'll acknowledge the fact that vaccinated people carry the covid virus, so we'll test vaccinated and unvaccinated people, if we want to reduce transmission of the virus. of course, the vaccine does have an effect, but not the kind of effect that they said a year ago when they said that the vaccine would stop the pandemic, only that we need to have 70% of people vaccinated, and today we see a huge number of newly infected people in countries that have a very high number of vaccinated people. we need to look at these facts and redefine strategy, not just put pressure on the citizens. if health is the goal, then we need to invest a lot of energy and a lot of money in drug development, and that, unfortunately, is not mentioned in this report. if the goal is money, then we can pretend that we have learned nothing in the past year. we can impose meaningless covid certificates and we can force mandatory treatment. what will we choose: the reality and effectiveness of fighting covid or the ignorance of facts, the suppression of human freedoms and the conflict?
madam president, in portugal last year the national health service spent over 2.7 billion euros on medicines dispensed in pharmacies and public hospitals. these are numbers that speak volumes about the interest that is being mobilised around the drug. we recall episodes of pressure and blackmail by the pharmaceutical industry to procure medicines at unaffordable prices, the role it played in the delays in covid-19 vaccinations, the eu's uncompromising role in defending the interests of multinationals against the lifting of patents, or the intention of a public procurement that aims to place obstacles in the procurement options of states. the populations do not need a strategy that changes very little to ensure that the astronomical profits of the multinationals remain untouched, favouring ruinous public-private solutions. a pharmaceutical strategy in the service of the right to health imposes solutions for developing national production of medicines in the public domain, overcoming administrative blockages of patents, giving each country competence in the field of research and technological innovation, and contributing to the regulation of the sector, particularly at the price level.
madam president, the only pharmaceutical strategy worth having is one that places medicines and drugs in public ownership for the benefit of humanity and not the profits of the few. instead, we have the obscenity of public money being used to fund research, to absorb losses and then, when a successful medicine is developed, a patent is slapped on it, and its production is undertaken to make money for the shareholders who own it rather than to save lives and benefit humanity. let’s be clear: the case of aspen pharmacare buying up six critical off—patent cancer drugs with no market alternative, using their monopoly position to drive up prices, blackmailing governments and killing people, wasn’t a blip. it is an inevitable consequence of the privatisation of the pharmaceutical industry. intellectual property rights should have no place in medicine. we’ve seen the covid-19 pandemic yield bumper profits for big pharma, with pfizer, biontech and moderna receiving eur 34 billion in pre-tax profits in the last year. we should be concerned that the european medicines agency, which approves medicines, relies on those pharmaceutical companies for up to 86% of their funding. it is time to change course. medicines should be publicly owned for the benefit of all.
madam president, in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic, the economic measures that were taken by the european union, the european central bank and the european investment bank, and national governments, did stave off a crisis. but there’s no doubt we are now in another wave of the covid-19 pandemic, and this is going to put huge pressure on public finances across the european union in member states. in particular, the activation of the general escape clause was very welcome because it allowed member states to borrow more than they would have anticipated, to stave off that particular risk of a recession and also to invest in public health care. but we’re now in a situation where the european central bank is talking about unwinding the pandemic emergency purchase programme, which expires next march, and also the asset purchase programme. on top of that, the pressures that are now coming to bear in terms of inflation leads me to believe that unless the commission itself has a very strong plan on how it is going to unwind from the support that’s out there at the moment, some economies will be put under huge pressure. we have to be very conscious of that, and make sure we have a plan in place to assess member states individually rather than with a broad-brush stroke when they’re deactivating the general escape clause.
madam president, in june 2018, an attempt was made to secretly alter, and then publish, a doctored version of the original interim report of the douma opcw fact—finding mission in syria. we had the leaked reports through wikileaks and we can compare them side by side. in march 2019, the opcw published a final report, which concluded there were reasonable grounds to conclude the alleged chemical weapons attack had occurred. two opcw scientists involved with the opcw investigation raised serious concerns about its scientific objectivity and accuracy, whilst eminent figures called for a reinvestigation of the alleged douma attack. the whistle—blowers have been side—lined, their concerns brushed aside, ignored and misrepresented by the director—general of the opcw, fernando arias, when challenged on the matter, and misrepresented by mainstream media across europe. this is not disinformation. everything i have referenced is accompanied by official documentation that can be found at berlingroup21.org. as long as this scandal remains unaddressed by the opcw, the integrity of a body that is really significant remains in question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as mr weimers has said, we are almost daily shocked by the news of the murder and persecution of people because of their religion, even from countries which have quite strong economic and political relations with the european union. religion is a significant and even crucial part of the identity of many people, and the right to freedom of religion is one of the fundamental human rights postulates, among the greatest achievements of civilization on the european continent. it took the european commission two years to appoint a person to fill the vacant post of special envoy for freedom of religion or belief, and the commission did so this summer. but the appointed official left the post at the end of the summer for another assignment, and for several months now the post has been vacant again. we cannot be the ones to break our own standards of democracy and pluralism and turn our backs on people who are persecuted and discriminated against because of their religious beliefs. so i call on the commission to appoint a special envoy for religious freedom as soon as possible.
madam president, during the pandemic, amazon became a trillion-dollar corporation with record profits and a revenue higher than the gdp of 133 countries. they pay close to 0% tax, so check their warehouse workers to inhumane conditions, tyrannically denying them the right to join a trade union. meanwhile, their activities dump millions of metric tons of co2 into the atmosphere every year, while its data centres cannibalise entire country’s energy budgets and consume our water supplies. it’s always the same: amazon profits forever and never pays for the social or environmental costs. well that will change. this friday, the 26th, black friday is a global day of action in the campaign to make amazon pay. all over the world, a growing movement of activists and workers in factories and cargo facilities, oil refineries, warehouses and data centres will strike and demonstrate together, to force amazon to pay for its environmental and social consequences. this movement is needed, all power and solidarity to them this friday.
mr president, we are in the middle of the sixth mass extinction. vast parts of the earth will be uninhabitable for humans if we don’t make radical changes fast. scientists tell us, it is essential that the new cap specifies a minimum 10% of agricultural land to be left uncultivated and managed in a way that encourages biodiversity. yet, this deal specifies just a miserable minimum 4% space for nature and limited to arable land only. we also need a cap that delivers a fair distribution of payments. in ireland, according to the department of agriculture’s own modelling, 75% of farmers stand to benefit from criss payments, but this redistribution of funds to small and medium farms is not near good enough. this deal specifies that a minimum of just 10% of pillar 1 money be ring—fenced for criss. we wanted a minimum of 30%. this deal will see billions of euros continue to be used to destroy our ecosystems and our family farm model.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. as the world's largest trading power, the union is crucial to maintaining rules-based and as free as possible trade. to do this, we need a well-functioning world trade organization. i hope that next week's ministerial conference will be able to defend this system and will be willing to move towards reform that will allow it to function more effectively. but most importantly, the union itself needs to rethink its own external trade policy and finally operate on a 'europe first' basis, i.e. focusing on its own economic interest. more trade means more jobs. this requires more trade agreements and easier market access for european companies, rather than educating partner countries and even forcing them to change their social model. europe cannot afford to deal only with those who embrace its ideals. it would be more appropriate to approach our partners through dialogue, based on mutual respect. and then they would be more open to a dialogue about sustainability and human and social rights. so let's say yes to rules-based trade, to a level playing field and to empowering smes. but no to the ideological psychological warfare that's being waged against our partners, because otherwise the world will pass us by.
(inaudible) fit for the 21st century and requires reform to keep the organisation credible, functional, and also relevant. at its 12th ministerial conference the wto membership must deliver a reform roadmap to proceed with the necessary overhaul of its negotiation, adjudication and monitoring systems. the reforms should integrate plurilateral agreements into the multilateral architecture and provide a straightforward mechanism whereby resulting agreements can be seamlessly incorporated into the wto rulebook. in this context, the decision of the eu, us and japan to renew the trilateral partnership to address global challenges posed by non-market policies and to meet on the margins of mc12, is good news. the plurilateral talks on reforming industrial subsidies rules should start now. such talks can ensure progress in areas not mature enough for negotiations among the entire membership to ensure benefits through the most favoured nation clause extended to all wto members, allowing the wto to continue to deliver for people around the world.
president. - we all know that multilateralism is a difficult document. we saw that at the cop in glasgow, by the way. it is difficult to make multilateral agreements, and so we need success. success in sustainability through the fisheries agreement, and success in health. i listened to mr. simon very carefully. last week, it was announced that pfizer, biontech and moderna together made $34 billion in profits. that's about 93 million a day or a thousand dollars a second. the question i have to ask you, commissioner, and the epp group, is very simple: who are we protecting if we can't be in favor of a temporary suspension of intellectual property rights? who are we protecting? the big profits of the pharmaceutical industry or the interests of the world's population? that is the essence of this question.
madam president, a couple of years from today when we look back at this moment, what will we say? will we say this was the moment when, finally, our hope in trade multilateralism collapsed? or will we be able to say this was the time when we pulled together and created a new progressive agenda for trade multilateralism? it’s obviously not only in our hands, but it also needs our contribution, and the one thing that we need is pragmatism and the one thing that we don’t need is dogmatism. when i listen to mr simon who wants to sacrifice solidarity on the altar of intellectual property, that’s not pragmatism, that’s dogmatic. we need that pragmatism also when it comes to structural issues like reforming the appellate body, and we need that pragmatism also when we take advantage of plurilateral initiatives to enhance the multilateral overall framework. but we have the choice between pragmatism and dogmatism.
the european union is becoming a second-rate trading power. our trade deficit with china is growing. our economic freedoms are under pressure, and we're pricing ourselves out of the market with unrealistic climate goals. in the days when our continent was still an industrial world power, we set the rules and the playing field. together with our american allies, we told the world how countries should do business. but where the west saw free trade as a win-win situation, china sees it as a weapon to get the better of us. the trade relationship with china has become asymmetrical and there is no longer a level playing field. we're going up against the chinese dream that transcends generations. this is reflected in the plans of the european commission, which is attending the 12th ministerial conference on behalf of the eu. the commission is restricting our free trade with ever stricter climate rules and climate taxes and wants to link the un's sustainable development goals to it, a kind of cosmopolitan wish list. these barriers have little impact on the climate, but they do add costs to our businesses, and those costs are paid by the people back home. we call on the commission not to become a climate christmas tree of over-regulation and bureaucratic obstacles on the eve of mc12, but to commit itself to the core task: fair and free trade.
madam president, is it any wonder that the world trade organization (wto) has a deep crisis of legitimacy? it’s undemocratic, it’s non-transparent, and it perpetuates imbalanced policies that disempower the global south. the usual nonsense that increased trade is a win—win has long been exposed for what it is: a lie. instead, for the majority of people, increased trade has meant precarity, a race to the bottom in wages, public services, consumer standards and the environment. so the calls for reform of the wto are obviously widespread and long overdue. but, if it’s to mean anything, then there must be transformational change to the existing trade rules and the creation of a fundamentally different type of trade cooperation. plurilateral negotiations, for which there is no mandate, no consensus, and entrenched power imbalances and corporate globalisation, must end. the idea that the eu, which trumpets itself as an advocate of fairness and social justice, would position itself within the wto to block the triggering of the trade-related intellectual property rights (trips) waiver and prevent the production of generic vaccines, which can save lives, is a monument to our hypocrisy. it does, as colleagues have said, expose that the interests really being furthered and protected here are those of big business and big pharma. the wto, with the support of the eu, shows that its so-called fundamental principles of fair competition, support for lesser developed countries and transparency are just words. would we ever cop ourselves on?
mr president, the global agreement achieved at cop26 in glasgow, having about almost 200 countries, is keeping alive the hope of limiting the rise of global temperature to 1.5 degrees celsius. the glasgow climate package is not a game changer in terms of climate commitment. however, it is a step forward which finally completes the paris rulebook. cop26 was a great opportunity for us, for the eu, to reinforce our global leadership, starting with the global methane pledge. until now, 105 countries are on board, representing more than 70% of the global economy, committed to a collective goal of reducing global methane emissions, but at least 30% from 2020 levels by 2030. delivering on the pledge will reduce warming by at least 0.2 degrees celsius by 2050, and it is an eu initiative that has been adopted here in this house by a vast majority, and it works. cop26 also is an opportunity to confirm our leadership on phasing out coal with regard to the comparison to the final wording for phasing down coal power. eu is once again the world’s champion. we can all agree that the result of cop26 will be achieved if every country delivers on what they have pledged. in this regard, it is important to work intensively for setting global standards for sustainability and for the implementation of the provision of the paris agreement, putting further pressure on reluctant, big global emitters, namely china and russia. also in the eu, we have to translate commitments into rapid action without leaving anyone behind. we have to reward frontrunners to decarbonisation, my home country greece is one of them. we have also to invest heavily to scale up innovative technologies for expansion and storage for green energy. it is time to lead by example on the biggest challenge of our generation without undermining our competitiveness. let’s do it!
mr. chairman, please! i've listened to all 61 people who have performed before me, and there are many more waiting for this one minute. and behind me is the chairman with that terrible hammer, so this whole situation is pretty stressful. we're talking about life and death. so i would just like to address those who are complaining that the cop in glasgow didn't have an ambitious enough outcome, that it should have been more ambitious. we need strong support from an active and aware society to achieve more. they're the ones who are paying for the mistakes of past politicians, but they're also paying for the limitations and the costs of fighting global warming. they are the actors in this process and we must guarantee them a solidary and democratic transition. this process must not be dominated by fear, which is the worst possible adviser and is abominably exploited by short-sighted populists. we need to replace fear with a belief that we are worthy and that we can rise to the challenge. i'll quote professor geremko: "these are not the same blocks as before". and we're going to be fine.
mr president, cop26 was meant to be an international red alert call to climate action for all industries and governments to stop funding our very own destruction. but are eu member states hearing this call? hugely profitable fossil fuel industries that are sending us hurtling towards climate catastrophe continue to receive billions of euros of public funding through subsidies. 25 countries, including 11 member states, pledged at glasgow to stop funding the international fossil fuel energy sector by the end of next year. the european parliament supports a binding commitment to end all fossil fuel subsidies by 2025 under the key legislation of the eighth environment action programme. is the eu commission listening to this ambition? today, i call on eu member states and the eu commission to heed this call and demonstrate a level of real ambition that reflects the urgency of climate action. to end fossil fuel subsidies, both at home and abroad, support the european parliament’s mandate in the eight environment action programme to phase out all fossil fuel subsidies by 2025. time to listen to science, time to listen to people, time to face up to the evidence.
madam president, the frantic course of the pandemic speaks volumes with its record-breaking numbers of deaths, cases and injected patients. with patient screening, surgery suspensions, with the vaccination program being cancelled in greece and elsewhere, and with a new lockdown in the european union. the alibis of the european union and the greek government have dried up. it's not a new pandemic anymore, and it's not the explanation for why these things are happening everywhere. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the vaccination of the population is carried out in a timely manner. that in some countries there is an overabundance of vaccines and in others a complete shortage. by conveniently separating vaccinated and unvaccinated, you are trying to hide that the urgent and decisive thing is to thoroughly inform the people, to hire and not hire the private sector, to decisively hire in large numbers with new infrastructure to shield the public health system, to take necessary protective measures in critical areas of over-transmission, such as workplaces, transportation and schools, where both vaccinated and unvaccinated people are crowded together, and also to provide free mass testing for everyone.
madam president, vaccines work, vaccines reduce hospitalisations, morbidity and mortality. we must follow the scientific evidence. data released from the ecdc and the commission, on vaccination rates in the eu – just yesterday, shows a strong and undisputed correlation and causation as a result of the vaccines. the higher the vaccination rate in the member state, the lower the death rate; fact. the eu is clearly leading the way in global vaccine equity, despite ill-informed commentary from some. we have much more to do, as many colleagues have said here today, and we must accelerate what we are doing. but we have pledged to share at least 500 million doses with the most vulnerable countries by mid-2022. but to succeed in a global vaccination strategy, we need the public and private sectors working together. fair public-private partnerships offer one of the best guarantees to increase production, supply and distribution of vaccines all over the world. i support the eu target of reaching a global vaccination rate of 70% by next year, but let’s try and beat that target and go even further. let’s encourage other countries and global players, including pharmaceutical companies, to export and donate every available vial of the vaccine. to reach this target, we cannot take a soft stance on fake news and conspiracy theories. make no mistake, this vaccine misinformation battle is a battle for the health of our citizens, and i call on all member states to implement clear, public-led, targeted outreach campaigns to all unvaccinated groups. we cannot allow populism to triumph over science. covid-19 has served as an important reminder that we need to transform our global health architecture. the only chance of beating this global pandemic is by continuing to work together and sharing vaccines. that is the right and just thing to do.
madam president, as the prospect of a third dose for adults in europe looms, i note with despair that we are sorely short of vaccines in low-income countries. thus, only 1.1% of the population received at least one dose of vaccine in these countries. while i welcome the recent delivery of nearly 100 million doses of vaccine to covax, it is imperative that we accelerate cooperation and deliver on our commitments. until the day before yesterday, covax had only distributed 250 million doses of the original target of 2 billion doses. again, i am outraged by the power vested in the pharmaceutical industry. a letter from the german state secretary to the commission indicates that the surplus of vaccines in many member states is increasing without the member states being able to redistribute them. why are unbalanced contracts signed with vaccine manufacturers? these contracts contain minimum selling prices, expensive compensation payments or restrictions on the donation of vaccines. it is time to put an end to these abusive practices and counterbalance the power of the pharmaceutical giants.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for more than 18 months we have been fighting a serious health crisis. we are in the midst of a pandemic that has swept across the member states. we see how, one by one, some european countries have to impose lockdowns or other measures to limit the spread of the virus. the covid-19 pandemic has shown that the european union is capable of effective mobilisation and response. the european commission has done very well. vaccines have been available to european citizens and not just for european citizens. it was possible to export to all those who wanted to buy vaccines produced in the european union, and through the covax mechanism we were in solidarity with many countries on this planet. but there is something else we can do, beyond the covax mechanism, beyond donations, beyond helping those who may not have the same access and the same opportunity as european citizens. we can fight against misinformation. we can show that misinformation is the single most important reason we're still fighting this pandemic on this scale, and it's extremely dangerous, leading to loss of life. the pandemic has illustrated how easily misinformation can spread online and how easily false narratives can emerge and how quickly they can evolve. we need credible campaigns to promote vaccination that will obviously have a positive effect outside the european union. we need credible figures in the medical world, we need to get active public support, to combat misinformation and to promote the benefits of vaccination. also, what the digital covid certificate has meant can be a very good example that can inspire many of the countries on this planet to succeed in stopping the spread of the virus and making the lives of their citizens safer.
president, commissioner, the rich countries have already given a third shot to more people than the poor countries have given a first shot. that is not only unfair, but also extremely stupid because it does mean that, as mohammed said, we simply have to wait for the next variant. there is actually an additional injustice underneath that. the best vaccine in the world today is based on american and european mrna technology. we should be proud of that. but what do we see? that the companies that have this technology are not very interested in selling to, donating to, or working with poor countries, but rather selling their products to rich countries. and so those poor countries have to deal with much less effective chinese and other vaccines. that is unacceptable. so it's obvious what we have to do. as some colleagues have already said, we drew up a resolution on this and asked for action to be taken on this a long time ago. in addition to donating our surplus to vaccines, it is necessary that the mrna technology, the data and the patents be shared with the world trade organization - which we trust, i hope - to finally ramp up production as needed to tackle this pandemic at its core.
madam president, madam health commissioner, i am very glad you are here, because i would like you to answer the questions. everyone says there is inequality in the distribution of vaccines. we rich countries have had a lot of vaccines. but the situation is problematic for poor countries, especially in africa. there is a solution. i am not saying that this is the magic bullet, but there is a solution, and that is the patent waiver. the wto is meeting on november 30th and 130 countries will be there, at the request of south africa and india, which have the health infrastructure to lift these patents. the commission votes against. why would you do that? is it germany, because there's pfizer and biontech? why is germany voting against when even the united states is in favour? that's how we could have a lot of vaccines in those countries. you say it 's gonna take time; but the longer you wait, the longer it'll take. secondly, covax, which started with very good intentions. except that when we look, we have given very few doses, we, the european union. of the 200 million doses promised, 56 million have been administered. why would you do that? because in the contracts, which are opaque and not transparent, there is a clause that says that if ever a country like france wants to give pfizer doses, for example, it must ask pfizer for permission. and pfizer will check in the country whether, in case of death or side effects, that country is able to pay compensation. but we have to blow those clauses! commissioner, you have a responsibility. i am very much in favour of europe. i am in favour of solidarity, but it is the commission that is blocking the way at the moment.
madam president, the commission continues to refuse to support india and south africa’s trips waiver proposal at the wto. president von der leyen repeatedly pushes the covax programme as a solution instead. but the recent oxfam ‘a dose of reality’ report shows that covax has been a complete failure. big pharma promised a lot but delivered very little. the same oxfam report says that only 1.3% of people from the low-income countries have been vaccinated. sadly, the eu is more concerned about the intellectual property rights of its pharmaceutical companies who they continue to do secret deals with, than it is about the people in the global south. lift the patents, share vaccine technology, let developing countries make their own vaccine. the people of the global south want justice, not charity.
mr president, as you said yourself, commissioner, the good news is that renewables overtook fossil fuels as the eu’s main electricity source last year. we could only dream of this a decade ago. but the bad news is that we’re subsidising fossil fuels by over eur 100 per year for every man, woman and child in the european union. so when we see forest fires and floods and storms on our screens, in a sense we are paying for it with our taxes. and should we really be subsidising this and subsidising air pollution in kraków, in cremona, in slavonski brod? i don’t think so. i think if you let the citizens of europe decide – if you gave each of them a cheque for eur 100 – they would spend the money on clean air, on fresh water, on solar power. they’d invest in energy storage, demand management with an ambition, a tenacity and a resolve that would put politicians to shame. this is the future that the citizens of europe deserve.
madam president, we need to have a uniform new-born screening programme. we need to ensure there’s early diagnosis. we have too many mis-diagnoses, non-diagnosis, delayed diagnosis of children when they are born in the area of rare diseases. and we also have to accept that we have to have collaboration between member states in terms of research, innovation, specialist services, medical personnel in the areas of the very rare diseases, because we simply cannot assume that every country will have the capacity, or the population base, or the expertise, or the wherewithal, or the resources, to make available the therapeutic medicines, the orphan medicines and the care that is required in every area of rare diseases. so, this european action plan against rare diseases is very welcome, and we have to ensure now that it is bought into by the member states in areas of, as i said, support for people with rare diseases. my specific area of interest is in the context of pku (phenylketonuria) – i am the co-chair of a cross party alliance here in the european parliament, and we do want to bring the issue of rare diseases right to the very top and to ensure that when medicines are approved by the european medicines agency that every citizen in the european union can get access to them, not based on individual member states and their ability to pay or not. so i commend the review and i hope that we will engage positively with all member states.
mr president, today we mark the international day for the elimination of violence against women – for the 30th time. however, it is simply not good enough to mark this day each year and talk about the significant achievements we have made, or the challenges that are still there. violence against women remains a scourge. women are dying. women are suffering every single day across europe, and you have to ask the question: how do we tolerate this as a society? we saw a 30% increase during the covid pandemic in the number of cases – physical, sexual, psychological, online, offline, sexual, coercive control, financial control. transnationally we have taken significant steps, of course, with the istanbul convention – but what has happened to it? it’s extraordinary. despite having the istanbul convention, which was a seminal moment, a game changer, we now see it used as a target, a trojan horse. to those who have not yet ratified the istanbul convention, let’s be clear: you are sitting back and letting violence against women happen. shame on you. shame on those countries that will not take the steps that are needed to eliminate violence against women. the european commission, of course, needs to ramp up pressure with its proposal to combat violence against women, because women in europe should be safe everywhere – in their homes, in the street, in their workplaces. so let’s make a pledge now that we shall not come back here year after year. let’s ensure that drastic action is taken in the coming months so that in a few short years we can proudly proclaim that europe is the first continent in the world to eradicate violence against women. that is not too tall an order. that’s where we should be. that’s where we need to be. and if women are to be safe, those are the steps that we need to take to ensure a quality life for all our citizens, including women.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the wagner group is a military company that has been accused by un experts of committing serious human rights abuses. in the car, their activities are most often directed against human rights defenders, activists, journalists and minorities. since its establishment, the wagner group has been militarily involved in operations in many places around the world, including ukraine, libya and syria. the russian federation maintains that the wagner group is a private entity, but its ties to the kremlin are clear, and its founder yevgeny prigozhin has been further sanctioned by the eu. despite this and despite committing such serious human rights violations, the group continues to operate in the central african republic. i think the union must make it clear to all its partners that this is completely unacceptable. we call on the government of the central african republic to sever all ties with the wagner group. our partners must remember that by cooperating with human rights abusers and not holding them accountable, they become complicit in their actions. we must be resolute in demanding justice for the victims, and we must also closely monitor the activities of military-based entities such as the wagner group. i also think it is very important that the commission uses all the monitoring tools at its disposal to ensure that eu funds are under no circumstances used, directly or indirectly, to finance private military companies or any other organisation or undertaking that violates human rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the use of private, military and security companies has become common in conflict-affected situations. on the one hand, this practice can be legitimate in certain circumstances, as long as all applicable bodies of law are fully respected and incorporated in their activities. in particular, these companies must operate under precise contractual obligations, control and oversight, and with safeguards in place to prevent excessive use of force. the contracting state, the state where the company is operating and the state where the company is registered, all have obligations to ensure that laws are respected, including international, humanitarian and human rights law. on the other hand, the eu has become increasingly alarmed by the activities of the wagner group, which reportedly has close links to russia and is allegedly present in 23 african countries. their legal status is vague, as well as their modus operandi, objectives and targets. obviously, it is very difficult to prevent and ensure accountability for potential human rights and international, human and humanitarian law violations in the context of such ambiguity. the current situation in the central african republic is an illustration of this complex reality of blurred lines and diffused responsibilities. according to the latest un human rights report on the central african republic, issued on 4 august 2021, russian instructors and the employees of private security companies are specifically mentioned as involved in combat activities and at the origin of many human rights and humanitarian law violations. the special national commission of inquiry also acknowledged in october 2021 that some violations are attributed to russian instructors. in light of the possible engagement of the wagner group in mali, which is unacceptable from the eu’s. perspective, the eu has decided in its latest foreign affairs council meeting to start working on restrictive measures to sanction this group. it is important to ensure legal clarity, well-defined rules of engagement and full transparency in the use of private military and security companies. international law sets clear obligations for states to protect, respect and fulfil human rights. however, the wagner group’s current modus operandi clearly demonstrates that there is no intention to operate within the existing legal framework.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has seen the criminal activities of the wagner group and has drawn up a strong resolution containing my many comments. the kremlin's use of private military companies builds on the long history of the ussr operating various proxy forces abroad, using thousands of military specialists under the guise of 'advisors' as an important tool of political and military influence around the world, using them to foment and influence conflicts, while officially denying russian involvement. today, the wagner group is doing just that, supporting undemocratic regimes that systematically violate human rights, commit mass executions, torture, rape and looting, and engage in the greedy takeover of key natural resources. the most drastic crimes committed in syria, libya and the cis are indicated in the resolution. but let's remember that wagner group gained its experience primarily during the russian aggression against ukraine. we talked about this four years ago at a conference i organized. it is important to condemn the crimes committed by the wagner group. it is also important to point out the responsibility of the russian state and punish the criminals. the sanctions imposed on yevgeny prigozhin are not enough. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. we support efforts to bring them to justice in ukraine, and we call for international investigations and for the perpetrators to be brought to justice in international tribunals.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in cameroon (2021/2983(rsp))*. ______________* see minutes.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. the second article of the universal declaration of human rights was formulated in 1948 with the same clarity and precision as our mandate here today. unfortunately, we have to say that in 2021 many of these rights will be trampled on. it is up to us to look at it and to direct our criticism towards it. this is also true of the human rights situation in cameroon, and one who is particularly committed to human rights there, particularly for the english-speaking minority, is felix agbor nkongho. whether as a human rights lawyer, as the vice president of the african bar association for central africa, or as the founder of the centre for human rights and democracy for africa: he's raising his voice. he was arrested for this and only released under pressure from international associations and organizations. and he's still being threatened with death for his commitment. there is much to be said about the situation in cameroon, but i would like to mention one particular issue: the abuse of military justice against civilians. this is in flagrant contradiction to the right to a fair trial before independent courts, to which cameroon has also committed itself. we, the members of parliament, call once again in our resolution today on all the state authorities, but also on the separatists in cameroon, to respect the ceasefire, to accept the international offers for dialogue, to build federal systems, to release political prisoners and to put an immediate end to the threats against peaceful activists, journalists, workers' representatives, minorities, women and children. we also appeal to all the european institutions not to abandon the people of cameroon.
author. madam president, in cameroon, after the 1972 constitutional referendum, the federalist system of government guaranteeing the representation of the 20% of english speakers was abandoned in favour of a centralised system which gives the advantage to french speakers. since then, the english-speaking population in cameroon has suffered from increased marginalization, which has only worsened. in 2016, teachers and lawyers in the english-speaking southwest and northwest region went on strike, as they felt that the government, which is mostly french-speaking, was trying to reduce the common law system and english-language teaching in these regions. the biya government's response was unprecedented: a harsh military response, which gave rise to separatist movements and provoked violent protests. a spiral of violence then began between the government, deaf to legitimate demands and committed to destroying all those who want to divide the nation, and the english-speaking separatist movements that were radicalizing and arming against the french-speaking power in yaoundé and repressing all those who did not join their cause. the victim, as always, is the civilian population, who is massacred 3,000 dead , deprived of schooling and forced to flee over one million displaced people today in cameroon. currently, the biya government still refuses to take into account the demands of moderate elements for a return to federalism that would grant the regions greater autonomy. and the separatists, otherwise divided, are holding out on their demands for independence. we have a number of demands today. we are asking for humanitarian aid. we also call for dialogue and we ask that the external action service work towards this.
author. – madam president, two weeks ago, seven year old brandy tartaw was shot and killed by a police officer while walking home from school in bamenda, a city in northwest cameroon. brandy is just one of thousands of young girls who are the utterly innocent victims of the armed conflict in cameroon over the past five years. the forced school boycott in the anglophone regions has exposed children to child recruitment by terrorist organisations, forced labour, forced childhood marriage and sexual abuse. children make up 28% of all cases of gender—based violence in cameroon, and 13 percent of girls are married before the age of 15. today, we mark the international day of violence against women. the case of cameroon reminds us that women and young girls continue to be systematically used as pawns in power struggles across the world. of course, in order to protect women and girls in cameroon, we need an immediate ceasefire and for both sides to initiate peace talks without further delay. first and foremost, we must protect life. but the only surefire way to ensure that the human rights of women, girls and others are upheld in cameroon is to have effective legal safeguards. and that is why renew insisted on strong emphasis on the rule of law in this urgency resolution. to protect human rights, you need functioning courts, robust, proportionate laws and international recourse. this is the responsibility of the cameroon government, and it is also the european union’s responsibility as strategic partners of cameroon to exert the necessary pressure to make this happen.
author. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, as you know, cameroon is beset with two violent conflicts and went from peaceful protest to war. the escalation of violence has led to a number of simultaneous political and security challenges and to the high level of instability which the people of cameroon are now facing. this is very deplorable and frustrating. armed groups and government forces committed widespread human rights abuses, including extrajudicial or summary execution and mass killings. this has resulted in 80% of schools in the two anglophone region being closed or destroyed, and 700 000 students are denied education. we also see that ethnic tensions are rising, with political speech turned into hate speech, based on ethnicity and gender discrimination, which is taking place in an atmosphere of terror in the region, including targeted attacks on students, teachers, but also journalists and humanitarian workers. all this is very concerning, and the european union needs to respond strongly. it is no longer possible to ignore this conflict, and the situation is increasingly deteriorating. we need to mediate for an immediate cease fire, calling on both sides of the conflict to cease purposefully targeting civilians, schools and children, which deprives them of the right to education. it is also time that we make use of all the financial instruments provided by development aid or other programmes as political leverage, using them to enhance the defence of human rights in a country that is suffering since too long.
author. madam president, as i stressed in 2019, the anglophone crisis in cameroon is ill-suited to oversimplifications. although there is agreement on its most tragic aspects, many of the reforms undertaken since its inception have often been overlooked. this includes the creation in 2017 of a national commission for the promotion of bilingualism and multiculturalism, the recruitment of english-speaking teachers and judges, and the grand national dialogue and the status granted in 2019. the attitude of the leaders of the anglophone agitation in the north and south west regions, many of whom reside in the united states and europe, is also hidden, since some have reportedly rejected any discussion with the government. is this insurrection based solely on linguistic and cultural considerations? after all, many english speakers live in areas that are not english, in this country where 80% of the population is french-speaking. the claim of some english speakers, regarding their representation in oil companies, could be symptomatic of underlying economic motivations. let us not shout haro about cameroon, especially at a time when islamist terrorism seems to be on the verge of burning down the whole of central africa. the heavy toll paid by the country in its resolute fight against the islamic state and boko haram, on its soil and beyond, in the framework of the multinational joint force and the trans-saharan partnership, cannot be overstated. in addition, several hundred thousand nigerian and central african refugees have been taken in under difficult circumstances. at a time when in 2020, cameroon's far north will have been the target of more boko haram attacks against civilians than nigeria, niger and chad combined, cameroon, a guarantor of stability in a tense region, needs our support, not our anathemas.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in recent months, the anglophone crisis has entered a new phase with a drastic escalation of violence in the english speaking regions. having acquired more sophisticated weapons, clashes between anglophone separatist groups and francophone government security forces have increased in frequency and severity. furthermore, a total lack of investigation and prosecution for crimes committed by both sides has created a climate of impunity. the impact of this crisis on civilians has been devastating, with over 3000 lives lost to date and my colleague, barry andrews, indicated one a few moments ago. a huge casualty in this conflict has been education, as separatists have chosen schools as their bases and camps and enforced a vicious boycott, depriving 700 000 children of their right to education. the response to the urgency has been a military one, with troops deployed in the anglophone regions since 2016. instead, there should be a strong focus on dialogue and accountability for the crimes committed on both sides in the anglophone regions. i urge the european union, along with the african union and the united nations, to continue to work to end this catastrophe through mediation. without dialogue there can be no peace.
madam president, commissioner, this is not the first time that we have discussed the situation in cameroon in this house, but unfortunately we still have reasons for doing so. armed conflict continues to ravage the country, boko haram continues to be active and take lives, and just yesterday we received news of several students killed in the south west in a despicable terrorist attack. the repression of civil society and armed conflict must end. the arrest of opponents and the limitation of their rights, the use of military courts for civil trials, the limitation of the rights of citizens and, most likely, students, under the pretext of a lockdown under the pandemic, the violence used against children and teachers, the lack of security resulting in reports of rape, abduction, torture, assault, murder, are not acceptable. i call once again on the government of cameroon to respect the rights of its citizens and to work towards an effective ceasefire between the parties to the conflict, so that peace and the rule of law can be restored in that country.
colleagues, before i give the floor to the commission, i have one announcement to make on behalf of the president. at least 27 people drowned yesterday in the channel trying to reach the uk, seeking a better life. we cannot allow such tragedies to continue, and this house is strongly engaged in the common migration and asylum policy. i invite you to observe a minute of silence in memory of the victims. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union is following closely the human rights situation in cameroon, a country situated in a fragile region, taking its due share of the burden hosting refugees fleeing from the central african republic and nigeria. there are two persistent violent crises within cameroon in the so-called anglophone regions and in the far north. firstly, separatist claims in the predominantly anglophone regions of the northwest and southwest have led to a situation where the civilian population is taken hostage in the fight between numerous splintered non-state armed groups and the cameroonian security forces. this has led to extreme violence and security, human rights violations and humanitarian crises. illegal armed groups have been trying to impose an irresponsible school boycott for years now and punish any collaboration with central authorities. on the other side, state security forces sometimes use disproportionate force to respond. the eu has welcomed efforts by cameroonian authorities to fight impunity among its security forces and to restore trust with the population, although still more can be done. together with its member states and international partners, the eu has consistently called for an inclusive dialogue to solve the crisis. secondly, in the far north region, incursion of terrorists and armed groups also cause violence and violation of human rights. cameroon fights against boko haram and iswap and gets the support of the eu through the multinational joint task force. the eu also provides support by investing in the socio-economic development of the region and addresses the root causes of extremism through various actions aiming at strengthening the humanitarian development peace nexus. thirdly, the eu also encourages cameroonian authorities to avoid the excessive use of preventive detention, as the non-respect of the habeas corpus principles enshrined in the constitution of the country lead to abuses and undermines the population’s trust in the judiciary. finally, the eu plays a recognised role in cameroon in promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms through its cooperation with civil society and human rights defenders.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. unfortunately, the growing number of conflicts in africa proves that security is an essential precondition for any development. it is essential to understand the current crisis in cameroon by taking into account security factors. as a result of boko haram's continuing attacks on cameroonian targets, government forces are unable to protect the country's borders and its people. security conditions are so dire that yesterday, terrorists killed four teenagers at a school. in these circumstances, when thousands of people face jihadist terror every day and millions are starving, it is extremely misleading to talk about a gender ideology that is left-liberal. this attitude undermines the credibility of the union and shows that we know nothing about the african reality. the activities of boko haram threaten regional security and threaten a new wave of migration to europe. the eu must step up and support the efforts of those member states, including hungary, that are ready to contribute to the security of african citizens through military engagement. we must also, of course, not forget the protection of fundamental human rights. these have always been part of the eu's core values. but we should not lecture our african partners, we should initiate a dialogue. the dialogue must, of course, be based on the principle of equal partnership and must take account of any local sensitivities. i suggest that parliament should launch a fact-finding mission to cameroon as soon as possible to get a firsthand look at the challenges there.
i will now move to the second voting session of today. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 13.30 until 14.45. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare the second voting session open. you have until 14.45 to vote. the results of the second voting session will be announced at 16.00. the debates will resume at 15.00 with the major interpellation on the commission’s assessment of the quality of its answers to questions for written answer. (the sitting was suspended at 13.31)
i should like to begin by saying that yesterday, while i was still in the sitting yesterday morning, we had a small technical problem with the connection of the external offices. we decided we'd rather work with other people. the second point is that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the time allocated for the speeches was not included, and this caused some inconvenience to some colleagues. i ask for your indulgence, especially from mrs bentele, who, as usual, had prepared for her speaking time. i interrupted her very unexpectedly and threw her off her game. i ask for the tolerance of all concerned. we continue to work on improving our processes, especially when technical problems arise, which is always possible.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged question for written answer by christine anderson and markus buchheit, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, to the commission on the evaluation of the quality of the commission's replies to the commission's own written replies (g-001002/2020). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session. as in previous sessions, contacts are also possible from parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also like to point out that the plenary sessions will continue to be held at the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium when your speech is due.
member of the commission. – mr president, timely and pertinent replies to parliamentary questions are an integral part of the commission’s special partnership with the european parliament. president von der leyen made this a priority in her political guidelines from the beginning of her mandate. these questions and answers are an important instrument of political scrutiny. the commission’s objective is always to provide answers that focus on the main points that the members of parliament raise. let me recall that while the timeline for replies set by the european parliament in its internal rules of procedure is not legally binding on the commission, the commission continues to deploy all possible efforts to respect them, and this is a challenge. the commission receives between 6 000 and 7 000 parliamentary questions per year and addresses them all. in 2020, the commission received 6 767 questions – 57% more than in 2019, at 4 308. the complexity, cross—cutting nature and sensitivity of the subjects may of course have an impact on the time needed for handling and validating the replies. according to article 230 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, parliamentary questions are to be answered by the commission, and not by individual commissioners. every reply is therefore subject to an internal consultation at both service and cabinet level so that all relevant policy aspects are taken into account. each answer is then assessed by the members of the commission responsible for the subject matter before the college approves it. the commission is constantly working to streamline its internal processes and underlying it tools to reduce delays, while ensuring the collegiality of its answers. these efforts clearly showed results in 2020.
thank you very much, commissioner dalli. i rarely comment on the agenda. but since this item on the agenda concerns parliamentarism, i should like to say first of all that i am going to disagree with the honourable member on this point. so, in this parliament, more questions are asked than in any other parliament. that's right, you're right. but you have, in the german translation at any rate, said - and the language is a bit revealing - that the most important questions of the members are answered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. if you say there are mechanisms and that the time frame we have is a deadline, we are very different from governments. you have pointed out that the commission is a collegiate body. but then we expect, first of all, that these mechanisms are well oiled and well thought out. and secondly, if there is still a problem after that, i could well imagine the commission saying: let us put an improved and more respectful - as the honourable member has said - approach into an interinstitutional agreement. if it works well and if there are substantial answers, then, after a fair assessment of all the circumstances, we can certainly agree to eight weeks, provided that what has been agreed is respected. i would very much like to see the commission make further efforts to achieve further improvements. i think i speak for the whole house. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the congestion of international ports and increased transport costs to the detriment of the eu (2021/2980 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session. as in previous sessions, there will also be contacts from parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also like to point out that the plenary sessions will continue to be held at the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium when your speech is due.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of commissioner vălean i would like to thank you for raising the issue of international ports, congestion and increased transport costs affecting the eu. we are indeed dealing with extraordinary and unexpected challenges in freight logistics as a result of the disruption caused by the covid-19 pandemic. these are topics of utmost importance to our industries and economy, and ultimately to each of us as citizens and consumers. with the covid-19 pandemic, we have undoubtedly been through the most severe crisis in decades and it is not over yet as we all know. transport and logistics have been one of the most affected sectors. the sector has experienced exceptional pressures since spring 2020. yet transport and logistics operators continued to operate and deliver essential goods during the pandemic. this was possible due to the considerable personal efforts and sacrifices of transport workers, including in the maritime transport sector. there are multiple causes for the current disruption in the market. container shipping demand picked up strongly from july 2020 as factories reopened and consumers shifted some of their household budgets from services to goods. companies restocking depleted inventories further contributed to the sudden swing in demand. some companies sought to increase their inventory in anticipation of future disruption. moreover, as economies did not reopen at the same time across the world, this created more container shipping demand in other places, causing substantial imbalances. this was further exacerbated by port congestion due to lower port productivity as a result of strict covid protocols – covered port closures or due to weather impact. in addition, the dramatic rise in consumer demand for goods has translated into a surge in global container shipping demand. since july 2020 this has caused record high container shipping spot rates, on average around four to five times the normal levels on the main east-west trade. spot freight rates have continued rising in the third quarter of 2021, reaching new historical highs. and whilst recent average arrival delays have stabilised, schedule reliability remains poor. importantly, a substantial amount of container ship capacity is currently tied up at anchor waiting to berth. because port congestion increases journey times, this requires more container ship capacity. shipping companies are increasingly deploying more capacity into key trades, in particular on the asia to north america west coast route. however, the deployment of more capacity outside schedule creates a surge of cargo at the destination, with the potential of making the congestion even worse. the problem has resulted in bottlenecks and terminals and on land which affect vessels utilisation rate and effectively removes capacity from the market, reducing the ability to cater for demand. we have recently seen a new escalation of port congestion in some critical ports outside the eu, such as los angeles, long beach, where more than 80 container vessels are waiting outside the harbours. the commission is in regular contact with relevant stakeholders to identify any scope for action that can help towards a return to normal operations. we are monitoring carefully market developments, facilitating dialogue between all actors of the supply chain and liaising with competition and transport authorities, both within and outside the eu. currently it does not seem that regulation and market intervention could profitably substitute market mechanisms in sorting out congestion problems in logistic chains and imbalances between demand and supply. the commission is also in contact with regulators and competition authorities in china and the usa. following our exchanges, we agreed that no anti-competitive behaviour from shipping alliances aimed at increasing freight rates has been identified so far. nevertheless, we should focus on understanding the causes of the current difficulties and on learning the lessons of this pandemic. we need to enhance the resilience of our supply chains and be better prepared to respond to potential future crises. in markets that are heavily intertwined, common shared actions would appear to be the most appropriate response, fighting congestion on the seaside and land side. for instance, building buffer and spare capacity, improving port call efficiency and digitalisation would in particular appear relevant. digitalisation and new business models in support of collaborative logistics could be important enablers in this process. one of the key elements for a resilient transport system is the availability and smart use of information. this could lead to real time decisions in the shipping and container market. data sharing will enhance process planning, enable failure detection and mitigation and facilitate interaction among all actors in the supply chain. being able to track the availability and positioning of empty containers could lead to quicker reactions by all market operators in case of congestion or delay, such as container rerouting or changes in ships loading plans. i strongly believe that we need a systemic approach accounting for the user’s perspective to achieve an integrated, multimodal smart and green transport system. transport modes, infrastructure and assets need to be managed in a more efficient and integrated way to better exploit idle capacities. i thank you and look forward to your comments.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for being here. i am glad that we are finally addressing this important debate which my group in the european people's party has proposed, because it is undoubtedly one of the priority issues in europe and affects not only the transport sector but all the links in the logistics chain and, ultimately, of course, all europeans. the pandemic has caused transport costs to increase by more than 1 000%, causing delays and blockages in the delivery of goods worldwide. this is creating great legal uncertainty for all the actors involved. in addition to this, there are rising energy costs and a shortage of raw materials, which we in the european union have to import and which mainly enter our ports. the indirect effects, such as rising prices and inflation, threaten the economic recovery, the pockets of our citizens and the competitiveness of our companies. as i said, the crisis affects all sectors, foodstuffs, of course, but also the automotive industry, construction and textiles, to name just a few. the threat of shortages is real and is expected to continue at least until summer 2022. at the same time, we are working in the european union on a new framework for co2 emissions - the so-called ets - including maritime transport, which will undoubtedly increase the already very high cost of shipping. it is foreseen that current traffic will be relocated to third countries not affected by the eec-drc system, although this will be discussed later. we know that the causes and solutions to the crisis are global. but, that said, we cannot sit idly by and wait to see how things develop. action is needed to contain the impact and ensure that our ports remain globally competitive. what does the commission intend to do at european level to minimise the effects of this crisis on the single market, on our citizens and on our industry and, in particular, on our smes?
mr president, commissioner, we are in fact experiencing a logistical bottleneck, a global supply crisis which affects the competitiveness of the european economy, which affects the citizens. the widespread increase in prices, the lack of stocks or delays in deliveries and replacements are realities that need our response. the union, together with its international partners, must find a solution to the causes of this bottleneck, a joint solution, developed with the maritime sector, freight forwarders, shipowners, ports and the multimodal distribution sector. the union's inaction is to disappoint european consumers and to weaken european competitiveness. the shortage of containers and large vessels, the congestion of ports, the lack of storage, the delays in distribution within countries, the rise in energy prices, the rise in taxes, concentration and alliances in the hands of a few are elements to which the union has to respond. in addition, many shipowners prefer more cost-effective routes, congesting large ports and neglecting more peripheral ports, which results in shortages of products also in these markets. countries like portugal, the outermost regions of europe, suffer from this effect of diversion of routes, without any alternative supply. therefore, many consider that the maritime sector faces a perfect storm in the face of a global crisis and the widespread increase in prices in 2022. what has the commission done to fill in these gaps? does the united states have a grand plan for the adjacent infrastructure? and what can ports and operators expect to relieve supply chain bottlenecks? finally, what is your plan for the union to take on this global effort to regulate the operation of the global logistics and transport network? because this is what we're talking about. cooperation for economic recovery
mr. president, food and medicine come to us through a very long supply chain. the main modes of transport are road and sea both overhead and with record costs in the pandemic. it is up to us to ensure that carriers deliver goods quickly and safely, at a cost that is decent for european citizens. our ports are now suffering from non-european ports: there are longer transit times, higher tariffs, and containers are missing. in romania, deliveries from china cost up to 8 times more than in 2019. european citizens and companies do not have to bear these bills. it's gotten to this because we haven't regulated it properly, we haven't given european funds to those investments that ensure efficient port management and competitive infrastructure. the pandemic has clearly shown us what we need to improve. we need to get out of the offices, get out in the field, where the real issues are. it's time to stop talking endlessly and act. european citizens really deserve this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there have been winners and losers in this awful pandemic. and i read this morning that container shipping companies made profits of almost usd 50 billion in the third quarter alone of this year, and that kind of money surpasses the profits of tech giants like facebook, amazon, netflix and google, despite the fact that most of the underlying costs for these companies haven’t changed. and these spiralling costs of shipping, up almost a thousand per cent for some routes from china to europe, these are disrupting supply chains and they are increasing costs for consumers. and the impact of these increases, it tends to impact most on the less well-off and smaller countries. and, of course covid and the suez canal blockage played a role, but we also know that there are competition concerns in the shipping centre. and when can we expect some action from the commission on concentration in the market? i do find it interesting that we constantly hear from the shipping industry and from some meps that tackling the climate crisis will negatively impact eu shipping’s competitiveness or be too expensive. and this argument is at the core of the opposition to even mild attempts to decarbonise the sector. of course, such a short-sighted view conveniently ignores the fact that competitiveness is irrelevant if parts of the earth are uninhabitable. so my question to the shipping companies is, will you be investing the tens of billions of euro of profit into truly clean technologies to save us from the climate emergency? and another crucial and related issue is that some of our trade flows are inherently unsustainable, sending apples from new zealand to ireland is surely unsustainable and we need to tackle all of this. so the true cost of some things in our economy is rarely reflected, and this is particularly true in the field of transport. if we’re serious about the price of carbon, we must take action. we must tackle the shipping sector and ensure that the decarbonise.
mr president, i think it is interesting that we’re having this discussion on the eve of black friday, the day where undoubtedly we’ll see a splurge in online sales driven by the likes of amazon that will have our congested ports creaking at the seams. and when we talk about the challenges of the carrying capacity of container ships and the container shortages and so on, let’s spare a thought for the port workers at the receiving end of this crisis, because soaring freight rates and costs are placing additional pressure also on the workforce. in many ways, part of the crisis is actually a case of chickens coming home to roost. a consequence of the driving down of wages and conditions, attempts to break dockworkers’ unions across the eu, outsourcing work practices, refusing to hire trained dockworkers for lashing and so on. and this race to the bottom must end. we don’t want a return to the days of on the waterfront, so graphically illustrated by marlon brando’s film. transport workers have paid a huge price during the covid crisis, and they are now at the receiving end of this surge. but i think we need to step back as well and look at whether container transport can keep apace in the changing world. we know the eu is launching its connectivity strategy, global gateway, in response to the chinese belt and road. but before we do, we might want to make sure that no european countries are taking part in corrupt practices with local governments to get concessions on container terminals, like the french billionaire vincent bolloré and his links with the togolese and ghanaian presidents to get concessions in the ports of lomé and conakry. so no shortcuts. ports should be run fairly everywhere around the world with respect for workers’ rights everywhere.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, online harassment, cyberstalking, image—based sexual assault: these are just some of the terms which have become all too common and real for people across the eu, especially for women and girls. it has now become normal for women to casually discuss personal experiences of cyberviolence and abuse. as female representatives, we’ve all experienced it in some form, haven’t we? we’ve experienced the anxiety that it draws within us. we’ve experienced how, again and again, it was not taken seriously or removed from a platform. last november in ireland, we had a monumental wake—up call when links to almost 500 000 whatsapp chats, including sensitive images of women and girls, were leaked without their consent. they had their bodily autonomy taken away within seconds. they were not afforded an opportunity to consent or have their voices heard. they were judged, victim—blamed, told by online abusers and users to brush it off. while our minister for justice, helen mcentee, took swift action with the introduction of coco’s law, gaps in the protection of all forms of cyberviolence still remain today. the clear gendered aspect of cyberviolence must be recognised at an eu level. we must make gender—based violence a eurocrime. this is much—needed action to protect women’s rights in our eu. online abuse will not stop if those doing it believe they face no consequences, so we must ensure, commissioner, colleagues, each member state implements quickly.
mr president, isn’t it unbelievable that every ten years, a city the size of marseille, amsterdam or zagreb disappears from the world. just imagine that. how? because every year it is estimated that 87 000 women worldwide are killed, 50 300 of them by an intimate partner or family member. we call this femicide – when women are killed just because they are women. just think about those cities disappearing and the numbers in them and that number of women are killed over a ten-year period. and now we are also dealing with cyber-violence – an increasingly pervasive and common form of violence against women and it is part of the continuum of this type of violence. while new technology, as we all know, can be a wonderful thing, it can also have unintended and devastating consequences when instrumentalised and weaponised. research shows us that 52% of young women and girls have experienced online abuse – your sisters, your daughters, your mothers – sharing private images, videos or messages without their consent, mean and humiliating messages, abusive and threatening language, sexual harassment and false content – absolutely appalling and a whole new realm of violence. we have to take action. imagine the psychological consequences of that happening to you. hopefully, the european parliament will take action – and the european commission – because we know, what is illegal offline must also be illegal online. so let’s hope we take the right action and really make sure that this is stopped.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for that comprehensive statement on what still needs to be done, because there is no doubt that we live in unfinished democracies as far as gender equality is concerned. in other ways too, but specifically, as far as gender equality is concerned, there’s a long list. we all know that gains have been made, but we also know that we are at risk right now of losing those important gains. according to the institute for gender equality, the social and economic impacts of the covid-19 crisis threaten to roll back recent progress in gender equality. that’s a really serious issue. and the commissioner mentioned the rrf. i want to say that it’s really important that we monitor how that is spent, huge sums of money that are being given to member states. let’s make sure there is a gender-equality lens on the spending of that money because, as we know, when it comes to rights, often the rollbacks don’t happen with a loud bang, but as a slow creep. so we have a lot of work to do. we must double our commitments. we’re dealing with a gender pay gap, we’re dealing with a 29% pension gap. think about the implications of that for women as they age. we urgently need the proposals on gender violence, we’ve already covered that in parliament here this evening, it’s got to be at the top of the political agenda. and let me make the point that i would like to see more men leading on these issues. i think it’s really important that we have male champions of equality, and that the leaders of political parties speak out unequivocally about gender equality and the challenges that lie ahead. it is really important that we now have a european care strategy as well, because this is going to be fundamental to getting that societal shift that we need.
madam president, i speak on two types of inflation. firstly, the construction materials inflation, which obviously is going to put huge pressure on governments and on the european union, too, in terms of value for money for the next generation recovery fund. and the difficulties that governments will have in providing public housing for citizens and for those that want to afford or can afford to buy a house; it is now slipping away from them. ordinary citizens unable to get on the ladder in terms of the cost of housing because of the inflation in construction materials. on top of that, the whole issue of consumer price index inflation as well, which is really hitting lower-income families. it is the enemy of the lower-income people, inflation in this context. we have to do something to address these two particular issues: construction material inflation and consumer price inflation as well. the common reason for the rise, of course, in inflation is covid-19 and the impact it has had on supply chains and logistical supply chains. but equally, the issue of fuel, energy, gas and oil. these particular issues are areas that the commission and national governments will have to get on top of. otherwise, we will condemn many people being unable to purchase a home and many people unable to heat their homes because of the inflationary pressures.
madam president, i think we have to talk about islamophobia. twenty years of a so—called war on terror, victimising muslims, placing them under mass surveillance and profiling, chilling legitimate debates and political activity, sending police infiltrators and agent provocateurs into their communities and places of worship has brought us to a place where poisonous racism against muslims is going unchallenged in parliamentary chambers of countries that never cease to proclaim themselves as bastions of democracy and human rights. in the united states, with muslim congresswoman ilhan omar subjected to racist and dehumanising language by fellow congresswoman lauren boebert without sanction from either party. in the uk, apsana begum and zarah sultana, muslim representatives in parliament, routinely subjected to vile racist abuse by their colleagues. and in the european parliament, verbal attacks on young people attending our conference in october. it just shows how deep the rot has got. bigotry in representative institutions legitimises it across society. i want to use this platform to reject those ideas and to stand in full solidarity with our fellow parliamentarians targeted for their religion and ethnicity.
madam president, last week, the uk’s high court ruled that the us request to extradite assange to the us to stand trial on espionage charges is legally valid. they overturned a lower court ruling from back in january, when the judge deemed that he would be a suicide risk because conditions in us prisons were so bad. but the us department of justice convinced the high court that he’d be grand in the us and he’d be treated well. this is a country that was considering kidnapping him or assassinating him while he was in the ecuadorian embassy. he’s been locked up for the best part of ten years in one form or another, and for what? for being a journalist, because he exposed the truth about us war crimes and those of their allies in afghanistan and iraq. his biggest crime is telling the truth. there’s shame on all mainstream media right across europe that we have literally thrown him to the wolves, abandoned him to the us empire. the eu loves to talk about protecting journalism and protecting press freedom and human rights. it’s a lie. if we are serious about it, we protect julian assange. it’s an absolute disgrace!
mr president, this eu year ensures that we focus on giving a strong voice to our young people when it comes to our policy. during the european youth event held last october in this very building, one of the consistent issues identified by young people was their mental health. while the lived experiences of mental health may differ, the issue remains for many. unicef reported earlier this year that nine million adolescents in europe, aged between 10 and 19 years, are living with mental health disorders. anxiety and depression account for half of these cases. nine million. and, in truth, it will be years before we will know the true impact of what effect this pandemic will have on their mental health. so this coming year, it is essential that we listen, engage and collaborate with our young europeans. it is simply not good enough if we transition from this pandemic and do not have young voices at the decision—making table.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, on 7 november a farce with electoral appearance took place in nicaragua whose sole objective was to shore up the control of the regime of daniel ortega and rosario murillo over the nicaraguan citizenship. this process can be considered anything but democratic. it has violated all international standards and has developed in a context of great violence and intimidation, with the suppression of all democratic opposition in the country. in fact, there are still seven presidential candidates who are still in prison for purely political reasons and under completely irregular judicial proceedings. the ortega and murillo regime has thus completed the last step towards the conversion of the country into a true dictatorship, at the same time as it betrayed the founding values of the sandinista revolution of 1979, as some of its protagonists have ended up denouncing. for all that, our group, the group of the socialists and democrats, wants to demand from the nicaraguan authorities that they respect human rights in the country and allow the citizens to exercise their civil and political rights, that nicaragua return to the democratic path, with elections as soon as possible, in conditions of freedom and in compliance with international standards. and at the same time, we demand the immediate and unconditional release of those arbitrarily detained: political leaders, presidential candidates, human rights and environmental defenders and journalists. at the same time, we want to show our support for the high representative and the european external action service, who are working under very difficult conditions to denounce and pressure what has happened and to find a political solution to the serious situation in the country. our utmost solidarity with the nicaraguan people, who are experiencing firsthand how their democracy is being murdered.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, yesterday dora maría téllez, ana margarita vijil, suyén barahona and tamara dávila, all women at the forefront of the struggle for freedom and democracy in nicaragua, completed six months in prison, six months of torture, six months of harassment of their families. but there are, as has been said, more than 170 political prisoners in nicaragua. i cannot name them all, but in this resolution the first thing we ask for is the immediate release of all of them. i also want to send a message of solidarity to the families of so many political prisoners, to all those who, from nicaragua and beyond, are listening attentively to this debate, in the hope that the european union can contribute to a speedy and peaceful solution to this profound crisis. because, mr. high representative, as ernesto cardinal wrote about somoza, today too, "every night in managua, the presidential house is filled with shadows". that is why we are very clear in this resolution that we do not recognize the farce of the electoral process of 7 november and, consequently, we do not recognize the democratic legitimacy of any authority that has emerged from it. nicaragua is a dictatorship, it is a police state of structural impunity. we want to ask, apart from condemnation, that we jointly put into action all the instruments we have in our hands right now. we want more sanctions. sanctions against ortega, to tackle corruption and the state-building that has turned nicaragua into a patrimonialist state. we want the democratic clause of the association agreement with central america to be applied. we want to see more protection for human rights defenders and journalists who are still resisting in nicaragua. we want humanitarian aid to continue, but we want to ensure that no international funding from the european union or its member states reaches this corrupt regime.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the last year we have seen arbitrary arrests of opposition leaders, presidential candidates and human rights defenders. by eliminating all possible options for the main opposition groups, the elections on 7 november were rigged for only one possible outcome. it is clear that the elections were neither fair, transparent nor free. with the resolution we will adopt this week, the european parliament will unite in the condemnation of these illegitimate elections. we call on the government of nicaragua to guarantee civil and political rights for all nicaraguans, to cease the persecution of the opposition, the press, civil society and to immediately and unconditionally release all those arbitrarily detained. we also condemn the increasing criminalisation and persecution of environmental defenders and the continued attacks and acts of aggression against the indigenous people of nicaragua. in 2020, 12 environmental leaders were killed in nicaragua, making it the most deadly country per capita for environmental defenders. on 23 august, at least nine people from the miskitu and mayangna indigenous community were murdered by settlers, and two women were raped. these crimes remain unpunished, as the nicaraguan government fails to enforce legal protections of indigenous land. therefore, it’s crucial that the eu increases its support to civil society and human rights defenders. we also need – and it was already said several times – more targeted sanctions, and we should ask the commission to trigger the democratic clause of the association agreement, while ensuring that no sanction or any other measure could harm the nicaraguan people. they need our support, so that they can ensure their right to freely choose their government and live freely without repression and human rights abuses.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, mr high representative, daniel ortega now rules nicaragua as an autocrat without a democratic mandate. indeed, mr ortega eliminated all credible electoral competition by blocking political parties from participating in the elections, and used systematic arbitrary incarceration, harassment and intimidation. i deplore the fact that the nicaraguan government deprived its people of their civil and political rights and freedom of expression, and did not respect its commitments to human rights. i strongly condemn the undemocratic election process in nicaragua that violated all international democratic standards. that is why we call today for the immediate release of all detained political prisoners. in parallel, the eu institutions and all member states should work with like—minded countries and organisations to assess possible further steps, including sanctions. we should also maintain our support for the democratic aspirations of the citizens of nicaragua.
mr president, the elections on 7 november in nicaragua violated all international democratic standards for credible, inclusive, fair and transparent elections. they were a sad climax of nicaragua’s continuous authoritarian development as they complete the conversion of this country into an autocratic regime. as the european parliament, we reject the legitimacy of the results of these fake elections and, therefore, we reject the democratic legitimacy of any institutional authorities emerged from this rigged vote. the systematic crackdown of opposition leaders, journalists and civil society actors, as well as the psychological and physical abuse of the nicaraguan people, are appalling and represent a clear breach of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. high representative / vice-president, indeed we need to consider all instruments at our disposal to take additional measures against the ortega regime. i call on the nicaraguan authorities to end repression, to uphold and respect human rights, and to allow the nicaraguan people to exercise their civil and political rights. i call on the nicaraguan authorities to hold elections in accordance with international parameters which comply with international standards and the inter-american democratic charter to realise the democratic aspirations of the people of this country. and i call on the nicaraguan authorities to allow international as well as civil society organisations to access the country without restrictions. for the european union has consistently called for free and fair transparent elections, for the respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and for the immediate and unconditional release of arbitrarily detained political prisoners. mr ortega, return the sovereignty of nicaragua to the nicaraguan people, who are its rightful owners.
mr president, nicaragua has become a dictatorship. running for office carries a prison sentence. defending human rights, opposing bad environmental practices, the destruction of indigenous communities, denouncing abuses, pointing out those responsible lead to the harshest repression, aggression and harassment. there is no freedom of the press or of expression. under the circumstances, the last election was a sham. therefore, the current presidents are no longer the legitimate rulers of the country. they are usurpers who deserve to be treated as such, sanctioned and dispossessed of the economic returns of their corrupt practices, and investigated for their repressive policies within the framework of the united nations human rights council. let us activate the democratic clause in the cooperation agreement and give our full support to those on the ground who are trying to promote the only possible solution: an inclusive national dialogue which can only be launched when the repression has ceased and those who are still in prison for defending a democracy worthy of the name are released.
mr president, democratic elections are a very serious matter because in a democracy elections are the basis of the legitimacy of the rulers and, for this legitimacy to be indisputable, elections must be free and fair. when opposition candidates are put in jail, parties and candidates are invalidated, voting is done in a climate of persecution and no respect for human rights, these elections can be called anything but democratic; for example, sham elections, and winning a sham election, for whoever gets to them by controlling all the mechanisms of power, has no merit, has no merit at all. this is what has happened in nicaragua and this is what will allow the ortega/murillo tandem to continue abusing power until there is a real national dialogue to put an end to the repressive and authoritarian drift; until this happens, we demand the release of political prisoners and we call for a re-examination of the union's relations with nicaragua, and we also call for more effective sanctions.
mr president, the debate amounts to foreign interference in the affairs of a sovereign nation. i think i was the only mep to travel to nicaragua and witness the general election process. the atmosphere was festive, turnout was 65%, above the european average, and it was clear that the majority of the people were pretty happy with the result. the popularity of the fsln is the result of the gains made by the ortega government. the imf and the world bank released a report in 2018 stating that, up until that year, nicaragua had a sustained outstanding growth in gdp, improved their social indicators, expanded tourism and provided regional leadership in public safety and sustainable energy and food sovereignty. the violent us—backed coup in 2018 resulted in approximately 200 deaths on both sides, sanctions and the loss of 130 000 jobs. the national endowment for democracy and the cia funded far—right criminals who plotted the death and destruction, and are the ones being hailed in here as political prisoners. a negative comment that we did hear from the government was that they were too slow to prosecute these criminals. if you are so worried about democracy in here, before you go to latin america maybe you should look at the julian assange case.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. forty years ago, with 10 million poles in love with solidarity, like me, the question was: will they come in or not? it was about the kremlin in the communist system. for eight years, since the maidan, the ukrainians have been doing this. they have to deal with the threat, the growing danger since 2014 of the annexation of a large part of their territory, the occupation of eastern ukraine, economic pressure, cyber, disinformation, the denial of any international choice. how is the world 40 years ago different from the one we are living in now? and then the collective west was able to give a clear and unambiguous, explicit answer to the kremlin, the communist kremlin of the soviet union. that the annexation of poland would have very significant consequences. there was no article 5 at the time. we were part of the soviet bloc, and yet the threat was so clear and the strategic uncertainty that was imposed on the soviet union so effective that we were sure they wouldn't come in. this response of the west to the ukrainians, ukraine and addressed to the russian federation, to the kremlin today should be equally clear: no ukraine.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, zelensky came to power on a landslide with a mandate to end the war against the secessionists in the east, which has claimed thousands of lives and has had dire economic repercussions for millions of ukrainians. there is, in the form of the 2015 minsk ii agreement, a framework, a pathway to achieve a lasting peace. this solution has been endorsed by the us and the un and was negotiated between france, germany, ukraine and russia, providing for autonomy for a demilitarised donbas within ukraine but guaranteed by international treaty. this joint motion lays the blame for the lack of progress on minsk exclusively at russia’s feet. but this is a fantasy. russia has engaged seriously with the process, only to have zelensky’s side repeatedly add extra conditions at the last minute or watch on as ultranationalist militias, who always seem to have a fresh stash of us-made weaponry, repeatedly and blatantly refuse to obey the orders coming from kiev. there are serious internal problems in ukraine, between ukrainians, about what kind of country they want to build. we cannot simply project all this conflict as somewhat a russian problem. if we do, we will never understand the dynamics well enough in order to be of any help to the ukrainian people. in fact, we are more likely to introduce more violence into the region. if we want peace, we need to support a framework where russia is part of the solution and not always treated as an enemy. we need to open our minds and open our eyes.
mr. chairman, the fight against the pandemic is, of course, dominating all other topics today. today, more than ever, we are aware of the importance of european solidarity, belonging and cooperation. therefore, a big thank you goes to all those who fight the pandemic every day, especially the frontline health workers, but also to the citizens who get vaccinated and follow the measures faithfully. i also want to thank the scientists and leaders who are not afraid to take the necessary and often unpopular action. we don't know what mutations and viruses will threaten us, but we do know that we will win only by respecting scientific knowledge, vaccination and following the rules. as we know, at the beginning of the pandemic, many countries also restricted movement within the union. let us therefore remember that the functioning of our common market is at the heart of our economic functioning, but also of economic recovery. we must also bear in mind the situation of small businesses in particular, which are often prevented from carrying out their activities because of measures to protect public health, and this is particularly true of the situation in tourism and in particular in the food and drink sector, which is one of the most affected sectors. we also have to remember the consistent use of the common european funds in the recovery fund as a key instrument for our economic recovery. i also appreciate that our european aid has already gone to 150 countries around the world. but i want to emphasize in particular the help for our democratic allies, like taiwan. this country supplied us with millions of masks at the beginning of the pandemic, and today it's running out of vaccines. so i'm convinced that our mutual aid through vaccines is the most appropriate and useful activity today. democracies have to stick together. i wish you a happy, blessed christmas with your families.
mr president, july 2021: at the g7, germany, france, italy and the commission agreed to commit to achieve an overwhelmingly decarbonised power system in the 2030s. november 2021: the entire world in glasgow agrees to phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies, and the commission is saying: ‘well, we would have liked to go further than that’. so big words, big statements. and then we are in december 2021. is the commission now going to call investments in fossils ‘green’? are you going to facilitate investments in fossils with state aid guidelines? that is what is on the table and what you’re considering. this is why people get cynical: big words and statements. but then when it comes to the policy-making, you’re not doing what the statements are predicting. this is the loss of credibility, but this is also about the credibility and the legacy of this commission on the green deal. make it count.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, in german-speaking countries there is a saying: at night the lazy man becomes industrious. and that could be the motto of this week's council meeting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to draw attention to two of these issues which are particularly important. the first is the so-called corona crisis the vaccine-or-not-vaccination thing. the european union has failed here from day one. we have ordered too late, we have bet on the wrong vaccine horse, we have kept the contracts secret. now there is still a lot of things that are being kept under wraps, and now we are moving on to something that i think is really catastrophic, namely the introduction of compulsory vaccination throughout europe. austria, the country from which i come, is unfortunately even further along, where the austrian federal government wants to impose a compulsory vaccination for all people in austria. i think that is something which the european community should not stand for. and since the eu is so happy to bring article 7 proceedings against the hungarians or the poles because of their fundamental values, it would be a good idea for the european union and mrs von der leyen to bring article 7 proceedings against themselves, because that certainly does not correspond to the fundamental values of a european community. secondly, the rising energy prices. now, in winter, there is a need for action. the only thing i hear from the european union is discussions. there's disagreement. it's not happening. fuel prices are skyrocketing, electricity and gas prices are skyrocketing. i want to see solutions here. this can range from joint procurement, long-term contracts, a maximum tax rate to ensuring that a package of measures is put in place to ensure that people in europe are not victimized by these enormously rising energy prices.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, from this podium, from the podium of the european parliament, from the podium of 450 million european citizens, i want to emphasize once again, and to the highest degree, that i am one of those who envision a strong, reliable, sovereign, solidarity-based, human and social european union, capable of defending the sovereignty of its member states and of ensuring peace, health and prosperity for all european citizens and for the european continent. what we want, what we are demanding and what we are demanding is a european union that will remain firm in its principles and values. a european union that is truly strong and credible, that plays a dominant and leading role on the international scene and is not the weak link. a european union without double standards. a european union that will not be blackmailed or threatened by any turkey, any erdogan, any lukashenko, any country. but how credible can we make the european union in the eyes of the european citizens when it shows, mr vice-president of the european commission, an unprecedented tolerance, indecisiveness and procrastination in imposing sanctions on a country which has long been showing criminal and unacceptable behaviour, such as turkey, which is violating european and international law, the rule of law and human rights. to stand up for its own principles and values. it is a matter of defending its history, the founding fathers of the european union. the european parliament has a duty to defend the treaties themselves, the solidarity clause. it is for this reason that we are today insisting that the european union must live up to the expectations of the european citizens and especially the cypriot citizens.
president, commissioner, we are in the fourth wave today - the fourth corona wave - and with omicron on our way we can look forward, and i say this quite cynically, to a fifth, to a sixth wave. and the commission likes to brag that it is doing well, also internationally, with all the exports and the donations, but the real truth is that three quarters of the vaccines produced go to the rich countries and 1% goes to the poorest countries. this is not only ethically irresponsible and unjust, it is also simply the stupidity of europe. because if you don't vaccinate, you're increasing your chances of all sorts of variants. the vaccine doesn't discriminate between rich and poor. that's not that stupid. and so europe and the european commission must be on the right side of history. they have to support the waiver in the world trade organization. but they also need to do a much better job of supporting the world health organization. in other words, instead of protecting our own industry and protecting our own vaccines, we need to do a much better job of protecting the poor countries. that is the challenge and the task.
mr president, i would like to start with a sort of procedural remark. i find is rather disturbing that the leaders of the three institutions are not present for the full debate until the end. i feel the leaders of the house, the commission and the council should be present for such a debate. then i would like to call on, in particular the council, but also the commission, to do something very original, almost two years into the pandemic, and that is to actually coordinate their actions. it’s rather incredible that we are now in the umpteenth wave and we still see national governments taking unilateral, uncoordinated action, creating a patchwork for the citizens that is impossible to tackle. i’m glad that the european commission at least tried to create some more coordination and unity and, who knows, harmonisation, but i think that the commission cannot work with non-binding recommendations – which are not followed by the member states anyway – but with legislation. we have legislation for the covid-19 certificate. if you want to modify it, it should go through a proper legislative procedure in this house. we should insist, colleagues, that we get a legislative proposal. we can work quickly. we have done it before. so we call on the commission to put a legislative proposal on the table.
dear prime minister, dear colleagues, the pandemic has been going on for two years and it's not going to end anytime soon. today we need a clearer, simpler and more uniform system. different rules across the european union create confusion, dissatisfaction and cost a lot of time. different forms, different oaths, different countries divided by color -- is that the best we can do today? i invite the council, the commission to agree on a single system for the recognition of the covid certificate, a single system for the registration of passengers. moreover, we need a uniform approach by the european union to travel to third countries. we also need to work with partners in third countries to ensure that they apply the same rules to people coming from the european union. let's end this mess.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. i was back in my homeland this weekend helping with the vaccination campaign, and it was very encouraging to see so many people getting vaccinated. and when asked why they are only now getting vaccinated, some have said: yes, because there is nowhere else to go. this means that medically justified benefits for those who are vaccinated also help to increase the vaccination rate. but there were also some who said: i had no opportunity before, i did not know where to get vaccinated. and that's where we need to get better. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the vaccines are available to all. but above all, of course, i have boosted many people, and i thank ursula von der leyen for pointing out once again the need for this booster vaccination. there's clear evidence that booster doses are also more protective against omicron. and i was very upset by the statement of the director-general of the world health organization, dr. tedros, who said yesterday: there is no evidence that booster shots are effective against omicron. this is not the first comment made by tedros that has puzzled me. i sometimes wonder if he's really the man for the job. of course, we need to focus on africa and help it better. and i have great hope that the vaccine from novavax, which hopefully will be approved in the eu in the next few days, can help here because it's easier to handle and not as demanding, for example, in terms of storage and refrigeration. but we're elected in europe, and if we see that the booster is protecting us, then we have to protect our people. it'll be a better christmas with boosters. and that's why the order of the hour is called boosters. i wish everyone a merry christmas!
mr president, commissioner, it is now six months since this european parliament approved the digital covid certificate by the urgency procedure, for which i had the honour of being rapporteur, with a purpose limitation and to serve the restoration of free movement in the european union, and by which the commission undertook to review its performance when nine months have elapsed. a plausible scenario is a new puzzle of emergency measures adopted unilaterally by member states to the serious detriment of equality before the law and legal certainty, forcing the commission, once again, to try to strike a balance between public health and the rights and freedoms, among which we so cherish freedom of movement. the inevitable scenario, the only way forward, is for the european union to change its position and to make a firm commitment to the mandatory liberalisation of intellectual property patents to allow the pace of vaccine production and distribution to be multiplied on a global scale and to do so before the bodies of the world health organisation. the ethical force of this argument is re-established when we see the evidence that the delta variant emerged in india and the omicron variant, they say, emerged in south africa, two countries that called from the very first minute for mandatory patent waiver in favor of a global-scale response, which is the only way out. because if we're facing a global pandemic, there's no chance that we're going to be safe until we're all safe on a global scale, too. it is the only way to ensure not only a message of solidarity but also the protection of the european union's self-interest. compulsory release of intellectual property patents from large pharmaceutical industries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear european leaders, who will be meeting tomorrow to discuss the dear bills, there is a saying in italy: "you can't have a full barrel and a drunk wife". you cannot finance more gas pipelines with european public money and then complain that we are still dependent on fossil fuel imports from abroad. and so don't complain if energy prices go through the roof, but your energy ministers are criticizing the new targets on renewables and energy efficiency, because they say they are too demanding and so you invoke the usual flexibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new tax on energy. be consistent . you admit that you're doing everything you can to slow down this ecological transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are all on the test, but especially the second chamber, the council, to which i am addressing myself today. please be aware that we have declared 2022 the year of youth, we will present the results of the conference on the future of europe and we will invest more euros than ever in nextgenerationeu this year. we are making a joint promise to all the people who live in europe and to our common future. and this at a time when the divisions in our societies, families, parties are increasing dramatically. aggressiveness, polarization, fake news, violence taking off, fueled by corona, and the crisis of trust in politics as well. we know that working together in europe is our successful promise to the people and to the future, and we must act on it. thanks to increased cooperation, in less than a year, we had a vaccine for all citizens. thanks to an unbureaucratic eu response, national states were able to quickly release billions in aid. the cooperation has resulted in an eu certificate valid throughout europe. i therefore appeal to the council: all your agenda items can be resolved by strengthening the common and the uniting, by sincerity and cooperation. take responsibility for europe and therefore for the people of your country. do not block, do not give in to vanity and nationalist-populist egotism. think of the youth and our common future!
the commission has already done so. this morning ursula von der leyen made a very europe-centred speech. i think we really should put our european eyebrows down and look at the global situation. 7% vaccination rate in africa is not acceptable, and neither is the growing gap between rich and poor. the president of ghana yesterday, in this very place, spoke a clear language. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i also appeal to the council to finally tackle the global gateway project, to provide money to enable economic development in developing countries to advance, to provide debt relief for developing countries, to increase trade opportunities with the european union. we must create global justice, because we are the world together and not in europe alone.
mr president, thank you and greetings from dublin to all of you. as you know, in countries around the eu many people face the inconvenience of queuing for hours to avail of covid-19 booster shots. however, in other parts of the world citizens have been waiting far, far longer, but not for boosters, but for their first dose of covid-19 vaccines. we face this pandemic from a very privileged position. it’s a position of inequality when vaccines are not reaching enough people in parts of the globe already pressurised by poverty, conflict and crippling challenges. when i recently wrote to the european commission, i criticised the eu for neglecting low-income countries. we really must behave with decency by offering fulsome support for a waiver from certain provisions of the trips agreement for the prevention, containment and treatment of covid-19. it’s time for fair and equal distribution of vaccines globally. it’s about doing what’s right, but also about doing what’s sensible. higher levels of vaccine distribution globally saves lives and raises safety levels for all.
madam president, this week we debated how powerful words can be if used and targeted in a hateful way. yesterday, we voted overwhelmingly to ensure our online platforms protect citizens against the ignorance of some who try to alienate and target people because of their gender, their orientation or the colour of their skin. inclusive language and our journey with it is not to be feared. we are living in a time where our young citizens demand an eu that is ambitious, that is all-inclusive. they see culture. they see heritage. they celebrate differences. we are committed to mainstreaming equality in our communities. this must also be translated to our institutions. instead of discussing our differences, we must be respectful of one another, of course, if we are to ensure inclusion and that non-discrimination ends in our eu. as a digital pioneer, a navy officer, grace hopper, said: “the most damaging phrase in the language is: ‘it’s always been done that way.’”. as a christian democrat, may i wish you a very happy christmas and may you celebrate the traditions that bring you to our european union and make it a better place.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for their contribution to this rich debate and for their views. it’s a pity that ms wiśniewska, who accused me of lying, has just left and did not honour me with her presence so that i could explain to her that actually she managed to attack me on probably the only positive thing i had to say about the five regions which i mentioned specifically, which had problematic resolutions in terms of lgbtqi rights, but then, following the discussion with the commission services, provided satisfactory engagements on the basis of which we re-engaged the discussions and the spending on react-eu. so it’s a pity that she got angry for the wrong reasons, and it’s also a pity that she couldn’t listen to my explanation. the commission continues to be determined to use all our instruments – all the instruments at our disposal – and uphold the rule of law in poland, as we have demonstrated recently, and, of course, this includes the need for respect of the independent judiciary and the primacy of eu law, and also payments and spending. let me also stress that equality and non-discrimination are core values and fundamental rights in our union. they are enshrined in our treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights. they form an integral part of the model of society we represent in the world and of our way of life, and the commission will always continue to stand for them. today’s debate, i am very pleased to note, has shown that this house is an equally strong supporter of these same values and priorities.
the chairman of the council. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. the rule of law remains the basis for the functioning of the european union and is essential for the protection of fundamental rights and for the very functioning of our common democracy. this is especially true in matters that touch on some of the most sensitive areas of our personal lives. the experience gained during the covid-19 pandemic has shown that the union as a whole must pay particular attention to respecting the values set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union during this period. at the same time, as i said in the introduction, i must emphasise that european union law on abortion is, in principle, without prejudice to the constitutional provisions and other national legislation of the member states of the european union. let me reassure you that the presidency attaches particular importance to the protection of fundamental rights, women's rights and the protection of women in a vulnerable situation. thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the democratic socialists group has notified the president of the decisions on changes regarding appointments within the committees. those decisions will be included in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the proposed council decision on provisional emergency measures for the external border with belarus on the basis of article 78 (3) of the tfeu (2021/3017 rsp). i would remind the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in recent part-sessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind the honourable members that the speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the centre stage. so please keep your eyes on the list of speakers and look toward the platform as the time for your talk approaches. i also inform you that at 19.00 we will adjourn this sitting to announce the results of the votes cast earlier today. i invite the minister for foreign affairs, anže logar, to introduce the debate on behalf of the council.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, we are facing a cruel form of hybrid threat: the instrumentalisation of people for political ends sponsored by an authoritarian regime. such abhorrent practices run counter to eu and universal values. combating hybrid threats is a complex challenge the european union and its member states face, and they require a coordinated and joint response. the three member states under immediate pressure – lithuania, latvia and poland – need to know they can count on the support of the entire european union, and that is the message we want to send, a message of solidarity and support. recent action by the belarus regime aimed to undermine the entire eu, and our response must continue to be as swift, effective and united as it has been so far. these member states are managing the eu’s external border on behalf of all of us. we must acknowledge their tremendous efforts in dealing with this extremely difficult situation. the support provided to them encompasses operational and financial help to strengthen border management, as well as to cover urgent humanitarian needs. at the same time, major diplomatic outreach towards third countries and other stakeholders such as air carriers, has been undertaken. they have been warned against becoming partners in lukashenko’s sinister strategy, unwittingly or not. in addition, direct pressure is being exerted on belarus itself. since october 2020, the eu has gradually expanded its restrictive measures in the light of the situation in belarus. the council will further amend its sanctions regime as appropriate and will respond strongly to this hybrid attack. we must be able to target individuals and entities organising or contributing to activities by lukashenko’s regime that facilitate the illegal crossing of the eu’s external border. in addition, further work is needed in order to disrupt and dismantle human—smuggling networks, as well as to foster information campaigns in third countries to fight disinformation, including through increased engagement with social media platforms. we acknowledge the work done by the commission in drafting a proposal for a council decision on provisional emergency measures for latvia, lithuania and poland. the proposal follows the invitation by the european council in october 2021 for the commission to propose any necessary changes to the eu’s legal framework and concrete measures to ensure an immediate and appropriate response in line with eu law and international obligations, including respect for fundamental rights. these provisional measures, based on article 78(3) of the treaty of the functioning of the european union, should be designated to give these member states immediate support and relief, as well as some flexibility and leeway, and help them to address the emergency situation. in its intervention, the commission will provide more information about the proposed measures and their objective. these measures need to be adapted to the realities these member states are facing and correspond to their actual needs. in the council, member states now need to study the proposal, which was presented last week at expert level, including its interplay with existing and possible future eu legal rules. the european parliament will be consulted. honourable members, it is important to bear in mind that this proposal is not – and cannot be – an isolated tool which will magically solve the crisis. it is only a part of a wider toolbox of measures necessary to counter this type of threat and make the eu more resilient. in this respect, the proposal must be regarded in a much wider context, together with the revised proposal of the schengen borders code, in order to find a more permanent solution. it is important to stress that joint work on the reform of the common european asylum system also needs to continue in parallel because only a reformed system will help us to be better prepared for future attempts at destabilising the european union. the new system needs to be efficient and just, offering protection to persons who deserve it, but also protecting the external border and national systems in times of crisis. apart from the measures proposed by the commission to address an emergency situation, we obviously need to work with parliament to establish a more resilient system to better equip us against future crises. only by working on this problem as a whole can we show our true strength and solidarity, abiding by the core values of the eu, both on borders and on migration management, and fully respecting human rights. we all need to come together in opposition to those who manipulate people and take advantage of their suffering. thank you very much for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, we are here for a reason. we’re here because poland, lithuania and latvia are experiencing the brunt of the crisis, and we want to make sure that, when one of us is attacked, we are all attacked at the same time. by now, we all agree that what has been happening on our eastern external border is not a migration crisis. it is a particularly cruel and shameless hybrid threat. it’s a state—sponsored instrumentalisation of thousands of migrants by the last dictator of europe for political purposes. it’s unacceptable, and we must put an end to it. this is indeed a dramatic change of circumstances, taking into account that, until last year, irregular crossings from belarus barely numbered a few hundred. it points to an orchestrated, deliberate attempt to use people as pawns to destabilise the european union. our response has been immediate and continues to be unrelenting. first and foremost, we emphasised the dramatic humanitarian crisis. we have mobilised over eur 700 000 in humanitarian funding to support partners in providing assistance to vulnerable people. we responded to belarus flouting international norms with a harsh set of sanctions that we continue to escalate. we have suspended the belarus visa facilitation agreement. we have proposed a new legal framework that will also be put to your house for approval and that will enable us to adopt targeted measures against transport operators of any mode of transport that engage in or facilitate smuggling or trafficking of people into the european union. we are stepping up returns. nine flights to iraq have already taken place since mid-october, with over 3 500 people now having being repatriated through iraqi airways flights, and we have allocated further eu funding to the international organization for migration (iom) for that purpose. in parallel, we are successfully building a global coalition to oppose the instrumentalisation of people. transit routes being used by smugglers to bring migrants to the belarusian border are being shut down one by one. we are providing immediate support to the most affected member states, also providing support through the civil protection mechanism, deploying our agencies and mobilising additional funds. as part of this response, following the request of the european council to proceed with the necessary changes to the eu legal framework, we are proposing, under article 78(3) of the treaty, the latest tool from our toolbox of measures to the instrumentalisation of people by belarus. article 78(3) of the treaty is the relevant legal basis to address such an emergency situation characterised by a sudden inflow of nationals of third countries as defined by the treaty. our proposal includes exceptional measures applicable only for a limited period of six months. these measures will ensure that latvia, lithuania and poland have the necessary flexibility in terms of the procedures applied at the external borders in full compliance with the treaties and the respect of fundamental rights. the first leg of the proposals gives our three member states a proper legal framework for dealing with the asylum and return processes at the border, accompanied by necessary safeguards to respect fundamental rights. i want here to stress, in the clearest terms, that under no circumstances and in no way are we derogating from the right to asylum, but we are giving member states and asylum seekers alike a framework that allows for legal certainty, providing the procedural flexibilities that are necessary to deal with these extraordinary circumstances, which will ensure that applications will be registered and processed in accordance with fundamental rights and international obligations. we do that on the basis of eu law and of the treaties. the authorities would always need to respect core principles and rights, such as the principle of non-refoulement, and the best interests of the child, or the postponement or removal for health reasons. finally, the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) and the organization for migration must have access to the belarus side of the border to provide assistance to applicants and help with voluntary returns. our three member states should also ensure close cooperation with the unhcr and relevant partner organisations. the second leg of this proposal puts in place a solidarity framework for our member states, and this consists mainly of assistance provided by our agencies, the european asylum support office (easo), frontex and europol. the support that our agencies can provide will help the authorities to handle the situation on the ground, and we hope that all member states request such help. it will range from assistance with the registration and initial processing of asylum applications, screening of vulnerable applicants, to setting up reception facilities or specific border control measures. this proposal is another element, another piece of the puzzle, that responds to the european council’s call to ensure an immediate and appropriate response to the situation. but this is not the last one. yesterday, we presented to the commission the revision of the schengen borders code and the proposal for a regulation on addressing instrumentalisation in the field of migration and asylum. our objective is to ensure a stable framework that preserves the right to asylum and ensures the necessary safeguards, as well as the necessary flexibility to support a member state facing such a situation. for the first time, we are clearly defining the term ‘instrumentalisation’ in law, not politically, and this will allow us to trigger a specific emergency migration and asylum management procedure. what is happening now on our eastern external border could happen everywhere and we need to be prepared to react swiftly in a systematic and systemic way. let me also say, knowing the sensitivity of this house about the role of parliament, that, of course, what is only a consultation procedure under article 78(3) would be a full legislative procedure with a very important role for this house in the schengen border code so that the views of your assembly will accurately reflect it. let me finish by saying that i firmly believe that we should not only act as firefighters in managing migration, but now it is high time to start and conclude the work as architects – as architects of a new, holistic, cohesive pact for migration and asylum that connects all the dots of the different situations that we are facing, that provides for the necessary guarantees of responsibility and solidarity, and that would allow us to turn the page on european migration policy. with the support of this house, i’m very confident and optimistic that we will get there.
we now continue our debate on the statements of the council and the commission on the proposed council decision on provisional emergency measures for the external border with belarus on the basis of article 78 (3) tfeu (2021/3017 rsp).
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in recent months, the eu has been confronted with an unprecedented situation at our external border, confronted with a hybrid attack from a wicked dictator instrumentalising migrants in an attempt to blackmail our european union. even though his actions are directed against the whole of the european union, the consequences are most severely felt in our member states at the eastern border. they have been confronted with an exceptionally high influx of migrants, with enormous pressure on their border management organisation and a heavy burden on the capacity of their asylum systems. yes, this is an emergency situation, and it is important that those countries do not stand alone in the face of this emergency. europe needs to show solidarity, and we have. emergency, financial and operational support has been delivered swiftly and effectively, thanks to the diplomatic team europe efforts of vice-president schinas with countries of departure, we managed to prevent more migrants from falling victim to lukashenko, and we showed the belarusian regime that attempts to divide and destabilise europe will fail, that we will not be blackmailed into recognising an illegal regime and that, in contrast, the only thing he can expect from europe is tough and new sanctions until he stops repressing his own people. our response has been timely and effective, but more is needed. the unprecedented nature of this hybrid attack calls for extraordinary measures, and our legislation was simply not designed to deal with situations where our integrity and our security is under attack as a result of the instrumentalisation of migrants. and while the proposals on the pact and the schengen borders code offer the opportunity to legislate for emergency situations in the future, we cannot wait for their adoption to respond to a crisis that is happening now. so, yes, let us use article 78(3) of the treaty. let us use this article that was put in the treaty for this very specific purpose. it is there to allow us to help member states when they need help and if the project of europe is about one thing, it is about helping each other when it is needed. so let us put that into practice right now.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what to do in the face of lukashenko's exploitation of people? our response to the ruthless actions of the belarusian regime will be relentless. this was the introduction by margaritis schinas, vice-president for the promotion of our european way of life, to the emergency measures. and yes, i condemn the abuse of human beings by the belarusian regime and support the extension of sanctions. the emergency measures under article 78 (3) presented by the vice-president are not, however, inexorable towards belarus. the proposal is not aimed at belarus at all and does not actually offer any help to the member states concerned. the proposals are essentially the same: to be relentless in the face of people in need of protection, who are now arbitrarily detained at the border for a maximum of 16 weeks or whose rights are to be suspended in the event of deportation. in view of the declining number of asylum seekers at the eu-belarus border, there is no need for such emergency measures, for such a restrictive approach to european and international commitments on asylum. instead, emergency measures are needed to address the humanitarian crisis, guarantee freedom of the press in border regions, save lives. the commission's proposals are neither adequate nor proportionate, and in some cases they are not even clearly time-bound. we are hearing from the council that some member states want to suspend the asylum system because they have become too tired to help people in need. the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement, but it is a party to the schengen agreement.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr vice-president, dear margaritis schinas, by orchestrating the exploitation of migrants to put pressure on the union's borders, the belarusian leader lukashenko has acted like a bandit, towards the european union and its member states, but above all towards the men, women and children who are victims of this unacceptable trafficking. i welcome the strong mobilisation of the commission - and especially yours, commissioner - the mobilisation of european diplomacy and states to negotiate with third countries of origin, organise returns, sanction belarusian officials and the airlines that are complicit. in the face of these new hybrid threats, europe is being asked to control its borders and protect its citizens. europe is also expected to respond to migration and, above all, to humanitarian needs. i recognize the commission's desire to formulate immediate solutions in this proposal for a temporary derogation, but together with my colleagues from renew europe we stress that this regime cannot weaken the fundamental principles of the right of asylum, which was invented on the european continent, as our president emmanuel macron has reminded us. several conditions are essential and must be added: the entry into the territory of the people who are stuck between the two borders, especially the polish and belarusian, and who are dying of cold today. it is necessary to ensure decent reception conditions, in line with the european directive, to guarantee adequate care for families, minors and vulnerable people, to establish control by the commission on the ground to ensure compliance with procedures and individual rights and to ask states to accept the assistance of agencies, in particular frontex and easo. any derogation regime cannot be put in place without a firm commitment by the states concerned to respect the geneva convention on the rights of refugees. finally, these events are a reminder of the need for reform of the migration and asylum pact to ensure a fair balance between responsibility and european solidarity. calls on the member states to show greater willingness to do so without delay.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. you really should stop lying to us! there is no emergency caused by migration and certainly no war on the borders with poland, latvia and lithuania. what is happening is a humanitarian catastrophe, which you are making worse by your actions! we call on you to withdraw this scandalous proposal immediately! instead of taking decisive action against pushbacks, all of which are illegal, the commission is acting as a proxy for european rights in the area of asylum. if you had any respect for the lives of refugees, you would do everything to ensure that the closed zone on the polish-belarusian border is opened to protect people from cold and hunger and to at least pay a last respec­tive tribute to the many who had to die there. empathy and humanity are the sisters of freedom. you forgot that. i feel sorry for you.
madam president, vice-president schinas, i would like to bring back to the european parliament a debate on the challenge posed by what we have called a 'hybrid attack' perpetrated by the rogue regime of lukashenka, 'europe's last dictator in power for 30 years' and which directly affects its neighbours in the european union, lithuania, latvia and poland. it would have been a good opportunity for poland, which is so reluctant to comply with european law, to reflect on the value of solidarity because, indeed, a hybrid attack on any member state of the european union is an attack on the european union as a whole, but it so happens that the response adopted by the commission does not cause any harm to lukashenka; in fact, it makes no difference and, however, it can make a difference to the desperate human beings that lukashenka is exploiting, those who are already facing the harsh winter; and it makes a difference because they propose to suspend nothing less than the directive on reception conditions and the directive on asylum procedures without any proof of proportionality. there are doubts that should be cleared up in the course of this debate because the numbers do not justify a suspension of the rules of european law, and it is also done by leaving the european parliament out of its role as a legislator on an equal footing - the role given to it by the lisbon treaty in the field of migration and in the field of asylum - and thus reducing it to a mere consultation procedure. you will understand that the european parliament's concern about these measures is justified, and we demand that the humanitarian protection of people without borders be guaranteed; that the assistance of humanitarian organisations, which cannot be criminalised for providing assistance to these desperate people, be guaranteed, and that in any case the respect of european law, which is important, be guaranteed; it is important above all in crisis situations, and a hybrid attack is a crisis situation, because european law is important in the toughest and most difficult situations, and, without a doubt, the one that is being raised at the external borders of the european union is important not only for poland, it is important not only for lithuania, it is important not only for latvia: it is important for all european citizens, who expect european law to be respected in the toughest and most difficult situations.
madam president, i have the impression that you cannot imagine the situation at the border when you speak about it, when you speak about the ambitions, etc. i never thought that it is our ambition to let people die of cold, hunger or anxiety in a cold forest. i never thought that we could just watch and wish each other a merry christmas when people who come to our borders for help are sent back, hunted by dogs, beaten by people in uniform. these people are being used as a missile by this dictator of europe, lukashenko, who, commissioner, is not the last dictator, because there are new emerging dictators who are very eager to develop, unfortunately. we received an appeal from 60 professors from many world universities. i quote a bit of this appeal: ‘the decision of the council is a threat to all european citizens. supporting the illegal measures of authoritarian governments gives them a free hand to establish lawless zones on their territory. the european union, founded on the law and the defence of fundamental rights, cannot trample on their respect and risk denying itself. the future of the eu is being played out today in the białowieża forest. we ask the council of the european union to renounce the legalisation of these derogations from treaties protecting human rights.’ to finish, madam president, there are ngos in this forest who struggle to deliver help to those people who are dying there, and they are appealing to us. security does not exclude humanity, and a safe european border is one where nobody has to die.
mr president, i have to say, i find it outrageous that we are having this discussion. instead of the commission demanding that latvia, lithuania and poland should face infringement proceedings for their gross violations of international and eu law, including the right to asylum, what you’re doing is organising so that these crimes can be retrospectively legitimised, covered up and even extended, and all done in a manner in which the european parliament is being muscled out of any meaningful say. let’s be clear about this: this isn’t about an emergency on the belarus border. the disgusting instrumentalisation of migrants by lukashenko, so dehumanisingly characterised as a hybrid threat – vulnerable, cold hungry, tired women and children a hybrid threat? seriously, would you listen to yourselves? rather than confronting this, what’s been done here is another step on the road to legitimising pushbacks, as requested by 12 member states. it’s a disgrace. allowing the delay in the processing of asylum, poor reception conditions, facilitating returns – this proposal should be rejected in its entirety. if the eu wants any credibility, we have to uphold international law.
mr president, many things have already been said, so i have to admit that the committee on petitions is my favourite committee, despite the fact that this is non—legislative. it is direct too and speaks to our citizens. it’s absolutely great. in some countries, this is very popular, like in spain, for instance. in some countries, like my home country, it’s still not that popular, but still every year we receive almost 2 000 petitions. however, only a few hundred of them are declared admissible, and only a few end up with an infringement procedure, despite the fact that europeans are quite well aware of their rights. for instance, they refer quite often to the european charter of fundamental rights and to the european pillar of social rights. what they are not aware of are the limits that are imposed on us by the treaties. as tatjana ždanoka has already mentioned, article 51, for instance, states that the european charter of fundamental rights is mandatory to follow only if member states apply european, not national law. this is a problem, and the idea behind the committee on petitions is pretty much the same as that behind the conference the future of europe. our committee is looking forward to efficient and clear results from the conference on the future of europe. this is absolutely a clear signal from european citizens. we need better cooperation with the commission. we need the involvement of ngos and we need to use the citizens’ initiative tool in the proper way. it’s absolutely unacceptable when the european commission just sends the european citizens’ initiative to the bin. in other words, we need more europe.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members, not only for their interventions in this plenary debate, but also for their very dedicated work throughout the year on petitions and in the committee on petitions. i would also like once again to thank our rapporteur, mr falcă. i would like to underline once again that we take the work of this committee very seriously. i totally agree with the speakers, mr jahr and ms maestre martín de almagro, that you are indeed the committee in which the agenda is set directly by the citizens. i would like to assure you that, for the commission and for myself, you are definitely a first—class committee, because you have a direct link with the citizens. i would also like to underline that it’s extremely impressive, as ms ulrike müller said, that despite the difficult circumstances of operating in this online world, you have managed to communicate with the citizens through this new means – through video calls – and you have demonstrated care for the concerns of our citizens, which is reflected in a quite impressive increase of almost 16% in petitions. i totally agree with you that there is nothing that can replace physical meetings, but in these very difficult covid times, the fact that you switched to video calls and maintained links in that way is extremely impressive and very much appreciated. if you allow me to reflect on the issues raised by ms ždanoka, i have to say that i very much appreciate her contributions. at the same time, i have to say that i very much agree with a vote of the committee on the interinstitutional arrangements, because i am deeply convinced that the current legal interinstitutional context is sufficient and appropriate to ensure that the commission will do what it would ask us to do: to perform a deep analysis of the problems that petitioners bring to the attention of the european parliament, to keep your committee informed of conclusions and developments, and to provide adequate explanations about how it intends to deal with a given issue. i also agree with mr jahr that we can always – and we should – look at how we can improve things and how we can make sure that we provide a better service to our citizens. we have a few such ideas, and we will be very happy to share them with you. establishing a direct link between your web portal and the commission link which covers infringements would already provide better information and more clarity to citizens. i believe that it would improve the overall impression that citizens get from our cooperation. on article 51, which is an issue raised by ms ždanoka and also ms toom, i would like to reassure honourable members that the commission does not hesitate to take appropriate steps to address the infringement of rights as protected under the charter. however, the charter doesn’t extend the existing competences of the eu. this is not a matter of interpretation, but a matter of subsidiarity. however, we do our best to encourage close cooperation with ngos and with the human rights bodies, and to contribute in this way to the protection of the human rights of european citizens. mr barrena arza referred to the european citizens’ initiative (eci), and this was also the point of reference of madam toom. i would like to inform you that, every time the organisers of the eci initiatives file applications, we have political deliberations on these applications in our college. we always inform the commissioner so it’s not done by services. we just wanted to make sure that every commissioner is aware of what is proposed. until now, if my memory serves me well, we have approved 15 or 16 of the ecis and rejected only one. how did we achieve that improvement compared to the previous mandate? because we are working actively with the organisers, providing them with advice and telling them how the questions should be formulated so they fall within the remit of our competences and within the limits of what the eci was intended for. but clearly, there is a lot to do, as mr agius saliba underlined, to make sure that we continue next year to improve our service to the citizens and our response to the petitioners. we will do our utmost to stay within three months, which, as you know, was the time within which we are trying to respond to your petitions. in the overwhelming majority of cases, we achieve that result, but we will always be very willing to listen to your suggestions and your proposals about how to make things better. once again, thank you very much for the excellent cooperation throughout the year. i am looking forward to 2022, and because this is also my last intervention in the plenary this year, i would also like to wish everyone a merry christmas and happy new year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 16 december 2021.
the next item is the debate on: commission statement on 'the eu's response to poverty in transport' (2021/3015 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the concept of transport poverty, or mobility poverty, is attracting increasing attention. despite the lack of an exact definition, transport poverty generally refers to the inability of accessing mobility services either due to the cost, or because the services do not exist. it is not necessarily referring exclusively to those who cannot afford the access to transportation. we should also read it in a larger perspective, including those households where transport represents an important share of the family budget, and they are very sensitive to increase in prices of transport and mobility in general. indeed, whereas the single market in transport has increased connectivity, mobility remains expensive for people with lower incomes and is not sufficiently accessible for people with disabilities or reduced mobility. in rural, peripheral, remote areas, including the outermost regions and islands, improved public transport links and access to affordable connectivity in general is essential to guarantee lean mobility for all. mobility poverty can jeopardise access to products and services at a competitive price, as well as to social and cultural activities. but, more importantly, it can be an obstacle to access medical care, education and employment for citizens. in this context, mobility poverty is increasingly a concern, in particular for vulnerable groups. in our sustainable and smart mobility strategy, we are very clear on the importance of transport being available and affordable for all. our attention shall be focused on making sure it remains available for vulnerable groups. the european pillar of social rights is the european compass to make sure that a green and digital transition is socially fair and just. the pillar lists transport among the essential services that everyone shall have access to, and underscores the necessity to support people in need to access them. as announced in the european pillar of social rights action plan, the commission will present next year a report on access to essential services. it will also include a mapping of existing national and eu measures, supporting access for people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in the context of the fit for 55 package the commission has proposed a new social climate fund to address specifically the social impact of the green transition on vulnerable households, micro-enterprises and transport users, arising from the introduction of emission trading in the buildings and road transport sectors. this is of particular importance to ensure that the transition to a climate-neutral economy is just and leaves no one behind, and to ensure its social acceptance. once adopted by the legislator, it will provide funding to member states to grant temporary income support and allow for subsidising to support investments intended to reduce vulnerable groups’ reliance on fossil fuels. it should offer the possibility of facilitating the purchase of zero and low-emission vehicles, or strengthening other sustainable modes of transport, including public transport, active modes of transport or shared mobility solutions, particularly in rural and remote areas. investment in zero and low-emission mobility and transport also features in member states’ resilience and recovery plans, and various other eu funds provide ample possibilities to support the transformation driven by the european green deal from different angles: regional funds, the just transition fund, the modernisation fund for lower income member states and the innovation fund. the connecting europe facility (cef) will contribute equally with eur 1.5 billion in the next three years to help roll out the necessary infrastructure for citizens to be able to charge their electric cars. yesterday, the commission adopted a proposal on a council recommendation to address the social and labour aspects of the climate transition. the recommendation aims at a fair transition towards climate neutrality to ensure positive employment outcomes and benefits of the green transition, as well as for garnering public support. regarding transport poverty, we want to better understand and map those in difficulty as a result of increasing costs in transport. we are looking for further research and evidence, better monitoring and assessment of adequate access to essential services, including transport. transport poverty due to the lack of transport services can also be linked to poor connectivity for remote or rural areas. yesterday, the commission also adopted a legislative proposal revising the current ten-t regulation that sets the foundation of a european transport infrastructure. our network should allow seamless mobility and accessibility for all users, in particular people in situations of vulnerability. and, while a local and regional connectivity is certainly a competence of national authorities and administrations that are closer on the ground, we want to improve the accessibility of passengers where local and regional public transport connects with long-distance transport in train stations, ports and airports, with particular attention for vulnerable groups of transport users, including persons with disabilities, with reduced mobility, and people living in remote regions. in the revision of ten-t we have paid attention to areas in europe where maritime and air connections play an essential role to ensure connectivity, outermost regions in particular, but not only. the revision ensures a better representation of ports and airports in those regions, and the cef allows for more favourable conditions for projects, with cofinancing rates up to 70% in outermost regions. member states also have a tailor-made tool at hand to combat transport poverty granting and, if need be, compensating public-service obligations under non-discriminatory and transparent conditions for the public transport operators. this enables them to provide public transport services essential for connectivity where there is a demand but no supply. it is also important that transport services are not only affordable and available, but also accessible to everyone. for persons with disabilities or with reduced mobility, the main problem in accessing transport services is the lack of accessible vehicles, barriers in transport stations and inadequate transport information systems. i want to thank parliament again for its support earlier this year when adopting the regulation for rail passengers’ rights, which gives extended rights to persons with disabilities and reduced mobility. they will now have better access to information. the rules on liability of railway companies have been further reinforced when they take care of the mobility equipment of persons with reduced mobility when travelling, which is critical in their daily life. now when assessing the current legal framework on passenger rights and trms earlier this year, we have found that there are still gaps. while some rules would need clarification, in the coming weeks we will also launch an impact assessment to review the legislative framework on passenger rights and trms when using air, water, boat and bus and coach transport, and in addition, will propose legislation by 2022 on the provision and use of commercially sensitive data for multimodal digital mobility services, which will also improve journey planning for persons with reduced mobility. i rest here and i am looking forward to listening to your opinion. i trust that working together we can address this issue which is becoming more and more worrying.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, mobility is a necessity, not a luxury. mobility is a right after all. the free movement of persons, goods and services within the union cannot be achieved without mobility. reducing emissions is a necessity, too, so ultimately we have to find a balance between these things that we have to apply at the same time and with efficiency. the package proposed by the commission, the fit for 55 package, will create major problems in transport. in my opinion, it will accelerate this transport poverty, because it will create the possibility of raising costs; and in shipping, and in road transport, and in aviation, there are more taxes eventually introduced, fuel tax, emission tax, plus the price increase for fuel or alternative fuels. i believe that the measures we are taking should not create a problem which we then try to solve with aid, of course, from the state or the states or the union budget. i believe that measures must ensure mobility and at the same time ensure emissions reductions. i think ets without an alternative is just a simple fee. i think the ets should apply wherever an alternative is available and is affordable, and i think when we apply the ets, the money that we collect from the ets, the funds have to go back into the industry to create that alternative. i hope that together, in parliament and in the council, we will tackle this extremely important issue, both for citizens and for the economy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, transport poverty is a widespread phenomenon in the european union, and yet it scarcely features in our discussions on transport. there are varying definitions, but being transport poor is generally accepted to be someone who has little or no transport options for their daily needs, or transport spending pushes them below the poverty line or is excessively dangerous or time consuming. you could also add that exposure to things like air and noise pollution is higher amongst the most marginalised in society – think of the housing estates beside motorways versus the leafy suburbs. many people in the european union can be described as transport poor. however, i would warn that some are trying to weaponise this issue to fight against crucial environmental measures, and these issues are not mutually exclusive. more public transport, more cycling, more shared mobility, more rail, means less transport poverty in rural and urban areas, as well as less of an impact on our environment. i don’t believe that everyone needs an suv or has a right to fly across europe for a stag party. these acts are fuelling climate breakdown. in the last couple of days we’ve heard about the accelerating collapse of the west antarctic glacier, which could see sea levels rise by 65 centimetres. this is doomsday stuff, so i would ask the commission not to succumb to those who portray the environmental discussion as meaning less mobility for people. in fact, it means more, safer and greener mobility for all, and we need to marry environmental and social justice.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, well done to evelyn on her report. me too. as we in the european parliament gather here today to discuss metoo in the european institutions, as a woman in politics i raise my hand and i say, me too. none of us are free from the scourge of harassment, including sexual or other forms of harassment. in a world where women everywhere – movie stars, high ranking people in business, and indeed politicians – have been steadily coming forward to tell their stories of sexual harassment in recent years, it is clear that none of us are immune. the reality is that sexual harassment can happen to any of us, and anyone can be a perpetrator. anyone at all, in the safety of their home, in the streets, in the workplace, can be sexually harassed. it can happen to any of us but none of us should stand for it. and women are becoming increasingly confident in terms of challenging it. i know that this debate will resonate with colleagues here in the chamber today and with my own constituents in dublin, because metoo has created an earthquake around the world. now, as public representatives, it is our job not only to stand up and implement legislation to curb this horrendous phenomenon, but to set an example, best practice, here in our institutions and show that we will not tolerate, as evelyn said, zero tolerance, for anyone. it can happen to our colleagues, our staff, our commissioners and ourselves. of course, education and information and awareness-raising programmes are critical and procedures that make a difference where people have the confidence to report. educating ourselves, our children, is the only way to change what has been assumed to be understandable behaviour. extraordinarily, it’s not, and we need to say no, now. so let’s move forward, educate our children, educate ourselves, educate our institutions and continue to call out inappropriate behaviour when we see it and experience it, and always let our aim be that europe will be the first continent to proudly say that we eradicated sexual harassment and violence against women – soon.
mr president, the #metoo movement isn’t just for the celebrity circles of hollywood. unfortunately, most of us know a victim of sexual harassment; perhaps some of us are a victim of sexual harassment. while this is the broader societal issue both found online and offline, the discussion today has highlighted how we, as political leaders, want and need to break the trauma of the unspoken word and the secret of harassment. to eliminate the barriers that facilitate or shield sexual harassment, we must establish a basic understanding of such a thing. too often, we focus on resolving individual allegations without tracing the root of the problem: the workplace environment in which it arose. the importance of educating ourselves to be the best ally to ourselves, to our teams, to our younger citizens who will join and work in this institution has evolved, and we cannot afford to sit on the sidelines knowing there are issues, knowing there is opportunity to change, and then do nothing. as i prepared this speech, i thought of someone in their first job as a trainee, who has worked tirelessly for years studying and working to be successful in achieving a permanent job within this institution. and then i thought of the moment or moments they felt their career could be in serious jeopardy if they report their harassment, their achievement taken away. and can we really say this isn’t the reality? we cannot. the signposting and what we do when sexual harassment happens in our workplace needs to be clear for victims, for employees, for our co—workers. we all need to know how we should support and be the very best ally. our collective goal here needs to be eliminating the harm and trauma caused. i’m grateful that we were able to use this resolution to better ourselves and that, although we usually focus on sending strong messages as a parliament externally, today we can send one internally. i will vote ‘yes’ to this resolution, to eradicate #metoo from this institution.
madam president, over 14 years ago i moved a motion on fingal county council in dublin to ban wild animals from circuses, and it was the first local authority in the irish state to pass such a motion. it passed unanimously and even though i had wanted it to include all animals, it was actually a very good start. it really saddens me that 14 years down the road we’re still in a situation where animals are being exploited across the eu, and the commission sits on its hands and says ‘nothing to do with us’. it’s not the first time the commission is out of touch with european citizens. claims of any educational value have been well passed in this era of the internet. the idea of exploiting a sentient being for entertainment is absolutely abhorrent to european citizens. i salute the million citizens who supported us to get to this position. we know that under article 191, the commission has the competence to coordinate a ban across europe in terms of cross-border transportation issues. it’s about time you started implementing it.
mr president, i utterly condemn the attacks on freedom of expression, arbitrary imprisonment, detaining political opponents, forced labour camps, censorship and political re-education of minorities by the cuban regime. be it a totalitarian regime on the left or on the right, we must condemn in equal measure both, because both are fundamentally anathema to what this house stands for. i am surprised to listen to some people because of their ideological views on the left that will stand here, in this parliament that affords us huge luxuries and opportunities in terms of freedom, and defend the cuban regime, which has persecuted its people for years. it is not so long ago when cuban people weren’t even allowed to leave their country, and they wanted to leave it by the hundreds of thousands. so let us be very clear. condemn totalitarian regimes that are corrupt on the right and are corrupt on the left. i stand for the centre. i stand for liberty and freedom and i stand with the cuban people. shame on those who support the cuban regime as it is.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, air pollution is the main environmental threat to human health. according to the european environment agency, three quarters of europe's urban population breathe polluted air. an unjust sentence for all those people who inevitably compromise their health and that of their children. according to the european environment agency's report on air quality in europe, in 2021, 97% of the eu urban population is exposed to fine particulate matter levels above the recently updated who guidelines, while 94% is exposed to nitrogen dioxide levels above the who guidelines. in addition, almost all urban dwellers, i.e. 99%, are exposed to ozone levels that exceed who guidelines. if eu countries had met who air quality guidelines for fine particulate matter in 2019, premature deaths due to exposure to the pollutant would have decreased by 72% compared to 2005. so the data is clear: the european union is not doing enough to protect the health of its citizens and the measures taken so far are insufficient. violation of the european air quality directive is becoming the norm in many italian cities, but the situation is particularly serious in bolzano, where systematic exceedances of the limit value for nitrogen dioxide were recorded between 2003 and 2019. and it is precisely on this point that, in response to a question i put to the house, the european commission confirms that the air quality monitoring system in bolzano indicates that the nitrogen dioxide limits are being exceeded continuously, and it calls into question the air quality plan for the province of bolzano, which is not expected to bring the situation into full compliance until 2023. this response does not take into account repeated and documented violations for almost 15 years, without anything being done to solve the problem and we are more than halfway through the period of the plan called by the commission, which has been in force since 2018, and therefore there is no prospect of improvement on the horizon. the commission also notes that the air quality plan adopted by the province of bolzano in 2018 provided for a reduction of only 10% of the annual average nitrogen dioxide concentrations by 2020 compared to the 2017 values, if all measures were implemented, which is an entirely insufficient reduction, which would in any event exceed the european limit. however, the 10% decline forecast to date has not been achieved. the commission's response therefore confirms the concerns of the environmental associations, but its inaction, and therefore its failure to take immediate action, is unacceptable. we cannot underestimate the harmful impact of pollutants on human health, particularly that of nitrogen oxides in causing various respiratory diseases and more. the focus today should therefore not be on whether road traffic restrictions are compatible with the free movement of goods, but on how to find urgent solutions to road traffic which causes emissions which seriously endanger the health of citizens living in these areas. in conclusion, the solution lies precisely in shifting traffic from road to rail and putting an end to the lower toll and fuel costs that benefit road transport, in line with what the european commission proposed a few days ago in its mobility package.
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, in talking about the free movement of goods, i think it’s very important that the commission would take into account ireland’s specific situation among the island member states in order to ensure that we remain effectively connected to continental europe. the fact is that brexit has redirected the entire irish overland trade flow with the rest of the eu member states. it’s meant the abandonment effectively of the british land bridge and to have that replaced almost entirely via the ireland—france ferry transport. now this is the equivalent of a journey of about one to one and a half days between the nearest ports, which has a significant impact on the bulk of irish trade with the rest of the eu and obviously creates new challenges for irish road transport, particularly with regard to the application of the combined transport directive and the mobility package 1. i think now we see that all irish exports and imports carried by truck will automatically be subject to the restrictions and limitations set out in the various transport laws and virtually all irish exports and imports will be subject to posting. i think it’s really important that the interests of island member states, such as ireland, would be systematically taken into account when proposing new transport rules. the motion in question is about greater sustainability. i think it’s important that the impact of the current distance—based restrictions in island countries would be taken into account, obviously protecting the rights of workers within that. thank you, president. happy christmas to you, the commissioner, all colleagues and particularly the staff.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! all member states are now facing record inflation, driven by rising transport costs. the creation of restrictions on intra-union trade therefore primarily affects consumers. today we know that vaccination is the only effective way to fight the pandemic, and the re-establishment of borders between member states is not only not helping to reduce the number of infections, but is also contributing to the economic crisis. the commission's failure to react to the austrian government's decisions, which are making it increasingly difficult to provide transport services in the tyrol region and have a negative impact on supply chains and the environment, is a scandal. at the same time, next year, the obligation to return trucks to their countries of registration every 8 weeks will come into force, which will radically increase emissions. the commission is aware of this, but it still does nothing to stop this threat to the climate. this provision should be amended as soon as possible. good luck to you, commissioner!
mr president, since january last year, austria has progressively introduced restrictions on heavy goods vehicles transiting through the brenner pass. italian businesses have been particularly hard hit by these restrictions. austria’s argument that it has introduced a ban to reduce emissions does not really stack up. these restrictions are simply forcing trucks on longer diversions with a higher carbon footprint. but this dispute needs to be seen as part of a wider debate. the eu needs to rapidly accelerate the shift to zero-emission trucks. the decarbonisation of road freight simply won’t happen in the next decade without public support. we need to help hauliers to switch to zero-emission trucks, for example via schemes to buy or lease zero-emission trucks. small and medium-sized enterprises represent 99% of haulage companies, so they need to be essential to this transition, and we need large public investment to ensure adequate charging infrastructure. it is good that the new alternative fuels infrastructure regulation will set out minimum targets for public heavy-duty vehicle-charging infrastructure for the first time ever, but the commission is severely underestimating the total number of battery electric trucks that will be on the road in 2030, which means that it’s also underestimating the future demand for charging infrastructure. the protection of the single market should never supersede the interests of the environment, but unilateral natural measures, in this instance, will not solve the problem. i hope everyone here has a really good christmas as well, and a particular thanks for the year for the wonderful staff in the parliament.
