madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in its report for the financial year 2019, the european court of auditors certifies that the union's accounts reflect its financial situation 'faithfully and accurately'. however, it notes too many errors in expenditure deemed 'high risk', which account for more than half of the expenditure audited: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the court of auditors considers that the member states are absorbing the structural and investment funds too slowly. at the end of 2019, only 40% of the eu funding for 2014-2020 had been disbursed. improving on this is crucial for the period 2021-2027, especially after the agreement on next generation eu, with the extraordinary measures to deal with the impact of the pandemic. we must solve the problems, also with the help of individual governments, to make european union spending more efficient and more useful to its citizens.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gabriel, i believe that we are not doing the union's internal market a service if we only talk about successes: we must also look at the problems that exist, which are very important and obvious, because if the objectives of the european commission, which i share, are to create growth and employment, i am concerned that in december, a few weeks ago, an infringement procedure was initiated against italy on the application of the services directive. it is clear that in this case it is also a negligence of the italian government, which did not defend a regulation, the one introduced in 2018, and which deserved to continue in a dialogue with the european commission, which had been opened, but in my opinion that is not a positive example: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tourist industry is not affected by the crisis. i hope, of course, that the italian government will take action in this direction, in a context where, for example, in italy we have a strong conflict with the magistrates in my region, who write to the mayors to not apply an italian law. are we facing a failure or a success of the union's internal market and the system of rules we have set ourselves? because i unfortunately see uncertainty and fear for companies in italy about the application of the services directive - often small businesses, even family-run ones - who do not know whether they can invest in their future. and the tourism sector, as commissioner breton has also said, is one of the most affected by the current crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thanks to the efforts of the scientific community, the vaccination campaign has been launched. achieving and maintaining optimal vaccination coverage would be the best response to the health and economic crisis. the vaccine must be made available to everyone quickly, but we will not achieve the desired results unless the european citizens are reassured about the safety of the vaccine. but how can the public trust us when we, the members of the european parliament, the body elected to represent them, have only been given 50 minutes to look at contracts of hundreds of pages without being able to make a copy of them and without being able to disclose their contents? i therefore thank the commissioner for the efforts she is making in this direction. this is essential information for the protection of an inalienable right to health, which cannot be left to the mercy of trade agreements concluded by this european union and not shared with parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many points to be clarified on the management of vaccines. how much was spent on each contract? what are the security levels and why are there so many delays? what exemptions from liability have been granted to the producer companies? we have always demanded truth and correct information. the only concession was 50 minutes to see a single contract with dozens and dozens of pages for a vaccine that has not yet been approved by the ema. and some countries, like germany, have moved on their own. where is the european union and what action will it take? last week pfizer announced massive delays in italy alone 165 000 doses will be delivered less and there is a suspicion that some of the vials have been diverted to non-european countries, willing to pay more, and that those delivered in italy are below the authorized standards. the company has reassured president von der leyen, but that certainly does not reassure us. can we see the contract signed by pfizer? what sanctions will be adopted? the public would like to start seeing some light after this pandemic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is enough to travel around europe to see how much more needs to be done to unify the union from north to south, from east to west. it has been right to link up the main urban centres over the years, both in europe and within the states. it is time to make room for the peripheries of europe. we all know that there is little infrastructure and virtually no maintenance policies. it is right to give space to alternative fuels and to listen to the peripheral cities, but we do not put the protection of the environment at all costs, or worse, profit at all costs, first. in some areas of southern italy, profit has prevailed, and few people know this, but entire railway lines have been dismantled and replaced by buses. transport is the union's strategic asset, but every effort should be made to make it equally accessible. the governments and the commission must therefore do their part, respecting all the citizens of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are incoherent and hypocritical. you denounce with false goodwill the conditions in which immigrants live at europe's borders and in reception centres, but you are the only ones responsible. it is you who are giving false hope to those who often have no right to stay in europe, it is you who are not relocating, it is you who are not rotating ports, it is you who are unable to manage immigration. in 2020 alone, 34,000 migrants landed in italy: italy is the landing place for a third of all immigrants arriving in europe. italy saw three times as many arrivals in 2020 as the previous year, despite the pandemic. only 1 079 were relocated. in short, the reality is that europe is abandoning the border states: the malta agreement has been wrecked and there is no european solidarity.
madam president, the situation for people stuck at the eu’s external borders is unbelievably devastating and it is a shame for the european union. in the camps in which refugees are forced to live, basic human rights are curtailed. this policy is deliberately designed to make the residents’ lives as miserable as possible. the fact that the eu agency, frontex, actively commits human rights violations is a disgrace. frontex has failed and the person in charge must resign. in bosnia and herzegovina, people are again forced to live in the forest in sub-zero temperatures. this devastating situation is a direct consequence of the eu’s externalisation policy. we need a radical change in migration policy. the refugees must be evacuated into the european union. the inhuman camps must be dismantled at the external borders both inside and outside the eu. no-one should be left behind.
madam president, the situation of migrants and refugees at the eu’s external borders in bosnia and herzegovina is dramatic. it has in the last weeks turned into a humanitarian catastrophe. it has been snowing in the whole country and the temperatures went down to 14 degrees below zero. hundreds of migrants have been left homeless since their camp near bihać burned down. without a roof, any protection from the cold, no food, water or any medical supply. this is happening right in front of us. i call on the commission to increase the pressure on the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina. they need to provide the minimum humanitarian standards. we must not tolerate violations of human and fundamental rights at our borders. therefore i call as well on the croatian government – stop the illegal pushbacks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, yesterday's pictures show the arrival of the italian red cross vehicles in bosnia. they brought blankets and food to alleviate the suffering of thousands of people forced to sleep on the ground in the snow and to stand in line for a piece of bread and canned food. we watch it from our comfortable, warm chairs. are we not ashamed? how dare we wash our conscience and think we are fulfilling our responsibilities by just sending more money? we cannot turn bosnia into a buffer zone where thousands of people are trapped. we cannot turn a blind eye to border rejections and chain readmissions that prevent access to international protection. we cannot allow a european agency like frontex to become an accomplice to illegal, unlawful action. this is not the solidarity we want. member states should undertake to relocate these people. do it now, before it's too late. the commission will ensure that the rights, which are the same both within the european union and at the borders, are fully respected.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i come from friuli venezia giulia, the first port of call in italy on the so-called balkan route, and i have before me the images of the migrants who, having crossed the croatian and slovenian borders, are walking the streets of trieste and udine waiting for someone, perhaps organized crime, to take them further north. i have personally been on the balkan route, on the carso triestino, and i have spoken to journalists and police officers who have seen the refugee camps on the borders of the union. in bihac, in bosnia, for example, the situation is explosive, but it was a situation that had long been known to be critical. where was the european union when we in the league denounced all this? it is useless now to complain or to ask for the doors to be opened, allowing all immigrants to enter and pass through, as the extreme left of this parliament is asking. the time has come, commissioner, to take decisions, to set up proper criteria and control centres in those places, where a migrant can stay if he has the right to do so, otherwise a serious and effective system of returns must be established.
madam president, the arrest of aleksei navalny once again confirms that our appeals to moscow to respect its international obligations to the rule of law and the protection of civil rights are not being heard. moreover, we live under conditions of a new systemic conflict: our democratic processes are targeted by disinformation and cyberattacks; our population is exposed to military-grade nerve agents. and again, our political system is being weakened by our own actions allowing deals with the corrupt putin’s regime. i urge, once again, to halt the nord stream 2 project. by stopping gazprom gas, we will stop the kremlin. and i ask the high representative mr borrell whether, given the recent events, his planned visit to moscow next month is still on the agenda? if so, will it be made conditional upon meeting aleksei navalny at the place of his incarceration?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'putin is afraid of people taking to the streets, because the factor that cannot be ignored is the essence of politics.' these are the words of alexei navalny, the words that remind us why this other despicable arrest has been consummated. putin is afraid of democracy, pluralism, freedom of speech, the confrontation of different opinions, he is afraid of russian citizens who want to express their dissent, he is afraid of free voices. in recent days the international community and the most authoritative voices in the european union have rightly and strongly condemned this arrest. we must move forward, supporting the citizens who will be mobilizing, demanding the immediate release of navalny. mr navalny, we are waiting for you here in the european parliament, and we must also say this to the friends and accomplices who are present in the european parliament, the friends of mr putin: the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, i share the need for a strategic partnership. bilateral cooperation is the basis for a more equitable and resilient development: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. in post-covid reconstruction, the social dimension will be a priority. in latin america, the health, economic and social crisis has increased inequalities, especially affecting women, the elderly, minorities, indigenous communities and migrants: the caravan in honduras is just the latest episode. in addition to efforts to strengthen health security and universal health coverage, i think it is important to mention explicitly a social partnership focused on combating inequalities and protecting human rights, with a specific appendix on gender differences and autonomy, to stop violence and femicide. i ask the high representative whether these aspects are an integral part of the partnership.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here today to ask this house to take a stand on a disgraceful business of over $6 billion a year: the surrogacy. the theme is transversal and not partial: the commission has already submitted a letter to the intergroup on demography in june to denounce this neo-slavery of the third millennium. today we are voting on amendment no 24 to the annual report on human rights, which was tabled with the support of many of you and which has 42 signatures from colleagues from different countries and political groups. these signatures are clear proof that condemnation of pregnancy by third parties has not and should not have political colour. the human rights, dignity and freedom of the many women and children who are daily victims of the industry and the reproductive market are at stake. a system that sees women, often young and vulnerable, as mere commodities; considers the child to be a commodity to be sent to customers; she sees pregnancy and childbirth as commercial mechanisms to be exploited. that is unacceptable. the much-vaunted defence of women cannot remain an empty word. this parliament, as it has already done in 2011, 2015 and 2018, must reiterate its "no" to surrogacy and every informed vote from you will be crucial.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the elections last december were a farce. the regime has prevented the democratic transition and retained power through violence, repression and abuse. the actions of the european union, however noble, have not avoided the growing confirmation of maduro, who continues to mock the population and the opposition prisoners. i remember that there are 18 europeans in prison, including the italian-venezuelan juan planchart, who is under house arrest, guarded by the police, because of an untreated malignant tumour. i ask you, high representative, that the european union fight for the release of all these citizens. and let's not forget the millions of people fleeing venezuela, the suppression of indigenous communities, the censorship of information, the blackouts, the food and medicine shortages that are worsening the already severely compromised health system from the pandemic. how will the european union react in the coming months to this dictatorial and undemocratic regime? will you continue relations with guaidó and members of his national assembly? we need more courage, more responsibility and more concrete action to defend human rights from a people who are friendly and close to europe's values. the time for dialogue is over. we expect sanctions against members of the regime and a clear and strong recognition of guaidó's legitimacy in the face of illegitimate elections. all this is a duty to the venezuelan people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me join the concern expressed by many people recently about what has happened in the united states in recent days. violence is never the solution, and effective condemnation must also be linked to the opening up of a perspective of dialogue. but it is a fact that events like those seen on january 6 are important indicators of the health of a democracy. the hope that we have a stable partner, one that can meet the geopolitical challenges that lie ahead, is that president biden understands the malaise of american democracy and the socio-political dynamics that led to the assault on capitol hill. when millions of people who believe that an election result is rigged choose to occupy the center of political power, the first thing to do is to ask what the causes of this discomfort were. the prevailing narrative, fueled not only by politicians but also by the media and pundits, and the attacks aimed at undermining the legitimacy of the trump presidency have progressively eroded trust in institutions, generating this dangerous boomerang. the path to reconciliation is through inclusive political debate, which re-considers the demands of those 75 million liberal and conservative americans, without disqualifying them from the start. so freedom of expression and excessive power in the hands of a few private individuals will be crucial issues in the coming months and will also concern the old continent very closely. in the long term, the prospect of turning social media into virtual ideological bubbles will contribute to further radicalization of positions, coupled with the inability and lack of willingness to dialogue and mutual respect. trump's ouster therefore accelerates the process of turning the adversary into an enemy. relations between the two sides of the atlantic are strong and we will all work to make them stronger and stronger during this administration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new us administration will find in the league a reliable ally in italy and in europe. we will always stand by the united states, which has been, is and will always be the benchmark for democracy in the world and for the values of the west. to defend these values, italy, the united states and europe will have to fight together and have as their focus the containment of chinese influence in europe. i regret that the other day i heard italian prime minister conte compare the world's greatest democracy with the communist dictatorship. this is unacceptable for the representative of an important country such as italy, a founding member of the european union and a member of the g7. the atlantic pact is a serious thing. that the italian prime minister does not think so is dramatic and alarming. we believe that strengthening transatlantic relations will mean not signing the unfortunate trade agreement between the european union and china, which this parliament has rightly promised to fight, lega in primis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half ago the five star movement was decisive in saving europe from the abyss of nationalism by our vote in favour of you, president von der leyen, for an ambitious and forward-looking political project. with the same conviction today, as the 5 star movement, we welcome the programme of the portuguese presidency, which sets out a series of priorities for european citizens that coincide with those that the italian government has set for itself for the g20 presidency, as a testimony to political continuity and common actions that we can take forward together to face the current pandemic crisis at european and international level. from ethical and anthropocentric digitisation, to accelerating the green transition, to completing the social pillar, those that were the themes of a movement born of the people for the people are now the heritage and goal of our continent. we call on your presidency, prime minister costa, to be a catalyst for real change and to propose a revision of the stability pact so that the resources made available by the next generation eu can really generate an economic recovery that is as expansive as possible in the long term. we are consistently saying that we support the european project in accordance with the fundamental values, because there will be no real progress unless it is for all citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president costa, for the sake of the peoples of europe, i hope that your presidency will be a humble one, because humility means being able to reflect on how inadequate the budgetary dogmas are to get out of this crisis. the suspension of the stability pact and the freezing of state aid rules are only the tip of an iceberg of unsustainability. working people and businesses have spent months looking to brussels with confidence, but if there is no common sense to understand that conditionality is a trap at a historical stage like this, then the recovery plan risks becoming a noose around the neck. according to the international monetary fund, fiscal stimulus by eurozone governments is much less than that by governments in advanced third-world economies. this means that governments in europe are afraid of public spending, and i hope that this presidency will take this into account, because a leash, however loose, is always a leash.
madam president, madam president of the european commission, mr prime minister, mr antónio costa, thank you for your remarks and thank you for mentioning all the european challenges that your presidency will have to face. and among those challenges, among those priorities, which i share, is the negotiation of the common agricultural policy. i hope that we can achieve this together under your presidency. more than ever, this text must enable farmers to live with dignity. as you know, the cap has long been market-driven, market-driven only, and this has caused considerable damage to the farming community. and while i am not against market-driven, i think we have gone too far in deregulation. agricultural markets are structurally unstable. we must break the myth that the agricultural market is self-regulating. that's not true. too many farmers have lost their jobs, sometimes even their lives. we urgently need to regulate agricultural markets and i have no doubt that you are willing to do so.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, do you think the italians are stupid? do you think the italians don't understand that europe is treating them like fish in the face? let's take the problem of illegal immigration. according to frontex, in 2020, the arrivals of migrants in europe decreased by 13%. it 's a pity that in italy they 're three times as many . during the pandemic, more than 34 000 illegal immigrants arrived in italy, representing 95% of all illegal immigrants arriving from the central mediterranean. you have turned italy into the refugee camp of europe, with the complicity of the pd-5 star government. we're going to the coronavirus emergency. eleven months have passed since the start of the pandemic and italians have not seen a single euro, nor the recovery fund, nor the promised billions. and now you've inserted the latest flaw in the recovery regulations: i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should be able to do it. we will not allow this europe, the slave of the banks and the multinationals, to starve so many italian families and businesses. together with our citizens, we will fight to stop this madness and to give hope and a future to our people and our land.
madam president, madam commission president and most of all, dear prime minister costa. forty-six years ago, the people in portugal took to the streets for democracy and freedom. they took to the streets to peacefully overthrow an authoritarian and oppressive regime. their struggle for democracy and freedom will never be forgotten in europe’s history. many years have passed since then, but today again authoritarians are grabbing power in europe, threatening democracy and the rule of law. again, we need a strong portuguese voice in the struggle for freedom and democracy. so, prime minister use the next six months to stand strong for our shared european values. this parliament has for years now fought for a more determined european reaction to breaches of rule of law and eu citizens’ fundamental rights. very often, unfortunately, without the council presidency at our side. let us make the next six months a spring for freedom and democracy inside the european union, for the rights of minorities, of women, for equality and diversity. we count on you mr prime minister.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president costa, the political phase is certainly a momentous one. we shall see if your ability to offer balanced and efficient guidance will be just as memorable: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as for the covid-19 recovery plans, we too see the risk that some national plans become an opportunity for tip-offs rather than long-term strategic investments. finally, i would like to mention two decisive cases. the first is the digital services act: the corporate policy of an american or chinese digital platform cannot be the one that sets the rules for our economic, democratic and social coexistence. the second is the new compact on migration and asylum: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the legal basis for the application of the directive. good work, mr president!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i could list the eurostat data on employment or on the death of businesses, but instead, as a warning, i will speak to you today about mario monti. why mario monti? former european commissioner, as president of the italian council he implemented with strict observance the same budgetary dogmas that were introduced in the recovery and resilience facility regulation with the following results: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly, such as the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly. i quote mario monti as saying that the implementation of the recovery plan and the budget will have to take account of the commission's recommendations on macroeconomic imbalances. these are recipes that have caused disasters in the past. i'm not saying that, eurostat says that, and mario monti was applauded by this same plenary meeting in strasbourg in february 2012. and so i say to you: i think that the commission has a duty to do so.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to housing is sacrosanct. unfortunately, in times of social crisis such as the one we are living in, that is not a certainty for everyone. the number of people reduced to hunger and poverty is constantly increasing. we need only listen to the news and see the queues of people waiting for a hot meal at the various voluntary associations to know that something is not working. i believe that europe has other things to think about in this period of crisis than dealing with public housing, setting limits and conditions for housing allocation, giving preference to roma and non-eu citizens. europe must not interfere with the powers of individual states. we need national plans that can meet the real needs of individual territories and a much more rigid immigration policy to stem the arrival of thousands of illegal immigrants, because only in this way, and i repeat, only in this way will we drastically reduce the number of homeless people in our cities and reduce the number of abusive jobs for those who have been on the list for years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two facts: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. 80 million can't pay their rent. it is clear that we are facing an emergency: the housing discomfort. yet the european pillar of social rights recognises the right to housing assistance for the needy, for the homeless, for the vulnerable. home is not a commercial asset, it's a human right. it is not a means of accumulating wealth, it is a social good. it is time, then, to combat multiple discrimination and to ensure decent and affordable housing for all, and i say for all. and here's a thought for those who are denied the right to their own home: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model, including the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the european social area, the european social area, the cultural area, the cultural area, the cultural and the economic aspects of the european union. it is clear that the various housing policies, which are the guarantee of a real boost to social cohesion, require a single approach, one which places respect for the dignity of every person, no one excluded, at the heart of every policy choice.
mr president, housing is the first and most important among social rights, from which all the others derive. if you have a roof over your head you can develop social relationships, create a family and raise children, cut down your feelings of insecurity and distress. in europe, 80 million citizens are unable to pay the costs of their houses and the ranks of the homeless have grown by 70% in the last a decade. we now have to build up a real european plan on housing, based on sustainability. fortunately a wind of change is blowing through europe, since europe is now able to show what solidarity means in front of the big suffering of the people because of the pandemic. so a good society is the one in which the minimum expectations of each of us are fulfilled. we can’t be indifferent to those who sleep in the streets. we can’t be indifferent to those who simply need to build up a future. i hope that this house, our house, will strongly support this dossier.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in one year remote workers have gone from 5 to 30%, and this has happened in a complete legislative vacuum at european and national level. it is necessary to regulate this transformation of the way of working through a european directive, which will prevent the spread of new forms of exploitation, and to prevent the states from proceeding in a dispersed manner precisely because 'ubiquitous' work is a common phenomenon of the internal market. this is why we must prevent new forms of dumping between countries by means of european legislation which prevents companies from infringing the new fundamental rights of workers which are the result of digitalisation. this is why the right to disconnect is a necessity for everyone, to which the european commission must respond with the utmost urgency and start the legislative process now, because the social partners will not be able to implement the agreement on digitisation in the next three years. the five star movement supports this report in its content, which has been strengthened by our amendments, but we cannot accept that parliament blocks the social dialogue when we must give back to every worker the dignity he deserves.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner dalli for being with us today, because the situation in hong kong is very serious. the concept of one country, two systems, which we have long defended, is in real danger: i think that many colleagues would agree with me on this and i think that all the resolutions tabled by the groups are going in the same direction. lawyers, journalists, political activists and young people are being deprived of their freedom, especially after the entry into force of the national security law that endangers the autonomy of hong kong, which was protected by the withdrawal agreement between britain and china. so i invite cooperation with the united kingdom and the american administration which, i imagine, will follow the outgoing administration's lead on relations with china. and then i can only stress, as a member of the committee on international trade, the unease that many of us, including many governments, have felt about an acceleration in the conclusion of the eu-china investment negotiations, which surprised us a little at the end of the year. it was probably not the right time to give china a result of this kind. i would like to conclude with the words of franco mella, a missionary in china for 40 years, who has been protesting for some time in front of the prisons where many activists are being held and who urges us not to let these people lose hope.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are again discussing turkey and its concept of human rights. in recent years, erdoğan's attitude towards europe and other sovereign states has been no less belligerent and hostile. in spite of this, europe and some european governments, including the italian government, continue to want to pursue negotiations for turkey's accession to europe, as if we could overlook the aggression in nagorno-karabakh, the war in northern syria, the drilling off cyprus, the oppression of political opponents, the hate speech against the european west. they turned the hagia sophia into a mosque, an affront to a symbol of the entire christian world. how much money have we given and are we still giving to turkey? between subsidies, aid and incentives to stop immigration, turkey has collected more than 15 billion euros since 2002 despite its islamist turn. we stop funding and arming an enemy of the west who mocks us. we must immediately stop negotiations on turkey's accession to europe and spend that money on our people, our businesses and our infrastructure. some dictators do not understand the language of diplomacy, the language of our human rights resolutions. they are only eager to expand their power, even at the expense of other peoples. turkey has never been, is not and will never be europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative and commissioner, i find it ironic that president erdoğan is inviting us to make the ontological choice of admitting turkey to the european union. it is politically ironic, but tragic and painful for its victims, its citizens, its legitimate political opponents, who in a democracy have the right and the public space to express themselves freely. turkey today is a strategic challenge for europe because the model of political philosophy and political islam proposed is not democratic, not tolerant, not open to dialogue and does not promote inalienable rights. the political model of the turkish state which he offers us is therefore anti-european and it is grotesque that he should ask us to put an end to what he calls the 'anti-turkey rhetoric'. it is not rhetoric, it is the voice of trampled human dignity, today it is the voice of selahattin demirtas.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner delli for her report. the south-east asian region is a region of strong geopolitical tensions, which is probably where our institutions should be focusing. the tensions between china and vietnam, the geopolitical alignment of countries like laos and cambodia, however, do not justify what is happening inside the vietnamese regime, with arrests of journalists and bloggers, a role of social media that, as we have seen in the western world, is very problematic and perhaps in some cases, about what happened in vietnam, is even complicit in a situation that obviously concerns freedom of expression. in my group's amendments we also include references to the important issue of religious freedom, which is also severely restricted in relation to christians, who are not a very small minority: they represent about 9% of the country's population. so it's clear that our role here is very difficult: the trade agreement we have reached - which is very much to the liking of multinationals looking for cheap labour and which penalizes farmers, for example, in my country, the rice farmers - contains clauses which vietnam, as we know, does not apply on human rights, and we should therefore realise that it is also damaging our credibility in the end as european institutions working on agreements which are never implemented.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president lagarde, the mandate of the ecb, in addition to the primary objective of price stability, includes support for the general economic policies of the union to help achieve its objectives. these include sustainable development, territorial cohesion and full employment. to support economic recovery in the eurozone, you wisely called for full alignment between fiscal and monetary policies. today, i think that we also need the complementarity of the right health policies in the member states, for an effective and decisive response to covid. a new approach focused on home care is needed, with clear and up-to-date protocols to cure symptomatic patients, relieve the burden on hospitals and thus allow the reopening of all productive activities, which is essential for economic recovery. i am confident that you will support those countries which have the courage and the capacity to be the first to free their businesses and citizens from the constraints of work and consumption. the european objectives cannot be achieved in a context of persistent and irrational health terrorism.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, by definition, the respect we owe to nature, the very thing that provides us with our living space, requires us not to waste anything of what it gives us. the new circular economy action plan is part of this. as such, it would be a good idea to accept, with some reservations, that 50% of greenhouse gas emissions and 90% of biodiversity loss are the result of extracting and processing the planet's resources. this particularly important issue has two aspects. the first, which is perfectly acceptable, envisages the almost endless recycling of our mineral and particularly energy resources, our plant resources which are nutrients and regulators of co2, and even our animal resources, with due respect for animals. it is an immediate winner if we all participate in the reversal of 50 years of blind and unbridled consumption. in the medium term, this is a great opportunity to reorient and re-establish our industry at the end of the model to create more local sectors and many jobs. but there is a more worrying phase, the already binding phase of the bucolic green deal and the paris accords driven by militant environmentalism. climate change is clearly being exploited by the proponents of the world energy power. the european union is setting standards, which risk depriving the member states of any industrial autonomy. just as yesterday, the chinese, with their low-cost industrial power, have imposed a low-cost market in europe. because a recycled product is cheaper to produce and sell, consumers are persuaded to keep their wages as low and precarious as possible, while retaining purchasing power. this is a real danger. it is a major part of our future that is at stake in this matter, which we will vote on while denouncing potential deviations.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. first of all, i would like to thank mr huitema and the other rapporteurs for a really strong report. in particular, there is a strong focus on binding reduction targets. europe's overconsumption is enormous. we're using resources as if we had almost three planets. we must reduce our consumption by two thirds! it is also important that the report stresses that the circular economy must be non-toxic and sustainable. if the circles are filled with poison, or if the consumption is too great for the planet to keep up, then it's not going to work. in january, the european environment agency concluded in a report that increased efficiency and new technologies are not enough to make our economy sustainable. the environment agency also shows that sustainable growth, as we like to call it, is hardly possible. in other words, we must free ourselves from dependence on endless economic growth and find an economy in which we can have well-being with prosperity and solidarity within the limits of what the earth can handle. we must now begin the difficult debate. the epa's word that the biodiversity, climate and pollution crises are closely linked to economic growth, we can't just ignore. but at the same time we must avoid being trapped in unemployment and other misery. we must not allow society to go dormant. what we need now are analyses, models and concrete examples of how people and societies can thrive in a true circular economy, where the limits of nature are respected.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner sinkevičius, thank you for coming. the package is very good and full of very useful recommendations and very good ideas. some of the scientists and engineers i've personally contacted in verifying what they're saying have made fun of the name, which is circular economy, when in fact they say it's a helical economy, based on the fact that some materials, like aluminum, lead, copper and steel, can be recycled indefinitely, but others, like paper and plastic, can't, so so sooner or later they end up in landfills or in incinerators. but apart from this anecdote, there are two problems i see: the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the waste package. so how are we going to meet our 2018 targets if we raise them even higher now? then we don't have a real system to measure the system. so how do we give ourselves new goals for 2030 if we don't know where we are now? that said, i fully support the work of commissioner sinkevičius. keep it up!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, investment in human capital is the key to overcoming the current economic and employment crisis. the commission's proposal, however, risks being a dead letter if we do not move towards an ambitious, concrete and traceable european training model, articulated in terms of the green and digital transition. this approach must provide for three essential conditions for quality training: mutual recognition of acquired skills; the definition of decent working conditions and salaries for apprentices, which prevent any form of exploitation, and above all the revival of local skills pacts, so that training evolves while maintaining a strong link with the vocations and needs of the territories, thus accompanying the processes of productive transformation. it is only through this balance between the european and the local dimension that we can restore dignity to training, which is an extraordinary source of job opportunities and an indispensable incubator of social awareness and active citizenship.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe the working poor have increased by 12% in the last decade and by 28% in my country, italy. the lack of work forces millions of people to accept any contract or salary because what little they have is the only alternative to combating poverty and social exclusion. digitalisation without rules puts at risk the fundamental labour rights that have been won over the last century. this resolution identifies the range of measures that must be urgently addressed, from the minimum wage to the right to disconnect for workers on the platforms. we in the five star movement support this proposal, but we will not accept any downward compromise, and we stress the need to amend the european semester upstream, placing environmental and social development on the same level as macroeconomic governance. only then will the european conference in porto in may be able to fully reaffirm the dignity of work, from which will flow the new european social model which we will bequeath to future generations.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated social and economic inequalities, with the risk of worsening in the near future. policies are needed to mitigate these effects. the only answer cannot and must not be new legislation at european level on pensions, wages and minimum incomes. i would like to remind you that these are and remain the exclusive competence of the member states. it is up to them to decide whether or not to introduce a national minimum wage, by means of a concerted discussion with all the social partners concerned. i also think it is unthinkable that we can recover from the crisis by over-regulation and subsidies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we must enable people to work and create jobs, since this is a dignified occupation, the only useful tool to avoid falling into poverty. finally, it should be stressed that illegal immigration is having a very negative impact on the world of work, with effects on the level of wages and the precarious nature of many jobs.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the covid pandemic and the measures put in place by governments, starting with the long lockdowns and restrictions on personal freedoms, are having a devastating effect on physical health and beyond. young people are among the most affected. to deprive them of sport also means depriving them of a good part of their social relations with psychological damage. research shows that 31 percent of young people suffer from severe post-traumatic stress disorder and 40 percent from depression, not to mention episodes of violence and aggression among youths. boredom and the inability to vent youthful energy has led to the rise of baby gangs. these figures are alarming and cannot leave us indifferent. our future rests on the shoulders of the young. they've been deprived of school, left behind a screen, and they've been deprived of sports. instead of preparing and training them for tomorrow, we are building a dangerous social bomb that will explode when our children enter the workforce and find themselves undermined by a strong psychological fragility. we need to find a solution that can combine care, security and social life. it is urgent to provide answers and to allow the new generations to return to life. the latins said, "a healthy mind in a healthy body". i have a feeling we're in danger of missing both targets.
in the name of the id group. madam president, colleagues, vice president dombrovskis, exactly one year after the start of the covid-19 pandemic, we are finally voting on the instrument that should strongly support our economies. however, i regret to point out that the conditionalities included, if not applied in a sufficiently flexible manner, could create problems for member states that decide to activate the recovery and resilience facility in both grant and loan form. the underlying problem of the rrf regulation is that it incorporates the compliance with the recommendations of the country report of the years 2019-2020, therefore prior to covid-19, and this crystallizes the criteria for calculating the output gap contained in the cam (commonly agreed methodology), which, on the other hand, is the subject of criticism by many member countries. following this pattern, the suspended stability and growth pact would reappear in full procyclical force. on the basis of a reasonable modification of the cam methodology, it is therefore possible to leave more room for manoeuvre to the member states without the current serious risk of generating hysteresis in excess unemployment and of amplifying the fall in domestic demand. it is equally important to point out the constraints on growth due to the next generation eu agenda which, due to the type of planned investments not adjusted to the real needs posed by the pandemic, will not promote the expected growth but strong disputes with the commission and among the member countries about the level of fiscal consolidation inevitably corresponding to the due financing of the interventions rigidly schematized in the new generation. the crisis generated by the pandemic can therefore be a great opportunity to finally reformulate the whole economic governance on which the single market is based. it is also worth noting the point raised by president lagarde, who says that no debt cancellation is possible because it is prohibited by the treaties. the same cannot be said of the ecb's de facto perpetuation of the renewals of those government bonds purchased under the pepp programme, of course always using the capital key criterion. it would be a question of freezing sine die good debt - to use mario draghi's definition of debt contracted to support growth. it is a question of political will alone, not of technical impossibility. we are living in a historical moment in which we must have the courage and the strength to change, with the consent of all, the rules which were devised over thirty years ago and which are no longer adequate to the needs of growth and social cohesion in the world in which we live.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i quote: it goes without saying that this parliament must ensure democratic accountability and have a say in the whole set of reforms, just as it does in the eu budget. that is a quote from commission president ursula von der leyen, from 13 may last year, here in this building, my dear valdis, from this square. and one more quote. i will always be committed to ensuring that this house is meant to allow parliament to have a full say in all major developments for our union. this is what the president of the commission said in this very room on 27 may last year when she presented nextgenerationeu. this week we are voting on the core element of this nextgenerationeu the building and resilience facility . the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the european parliament may decide on the framework, but not on how the billions are spent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament's veto could have been an important corrective. the commission not only failed to honour this promise in the end, but actively pushed it through the negotiations. the commission president's promises of a strong role for parliament have turned out to be empty promises in the negotiations. even if we do not have a veto at the end, i can assure you that we will make use of our control rights. it will be all the more important in the end that the commission does the same. it is now up to the european commission above all to ensure that a genuine european project is created with real added value for the people.
madam president, madam secretary of state, mr vice-president, as we all know, ease of recovery and resilience is the key instrument at the heart of the 'next generation eu', our european plan to get out of the current crisis. yes, today is a historic vote. this will make available over €672 billion in loans and grants to support reforms and investments undertaken by member states, hence the importance of the quality of the recovery plans drawn up by these member states. the regulation will play a crucial role in mitigating the economic and social impact of the coronavirus pandemic and in improving the sustainability, resilience and preparedness of european economies and societies for the ecological and digital transitions. economic impact, implementation of the european pillar of social rights, environmental and climate obligations: this is the focus of the recovery and resilience facility. we can only be satisfied, moreover, with the inclusion of the rule of law regulation in the general conditionality regime. but there are two distinct periods for the recovery and resilience facility: one during which the general safeguard clause is in place, and which it will be up to the company to extend, and one during which the general safeguard clause will be lifted. because even if macroeconomic conditionality is included in the proposal for the facility, what will happen after the general safeguard clause is lifted? is the commission prepared to undertake a thorough reform of the six-pack, the two-pack and the european semester? and, in fact, to reorient the stability and growth pact? the same causes have the same effects, so it would be appropriate not to make the same mistakes as in the past, to assess the present situation accurately and to propose long-term structural reforms, and in particular to deal responsibly with the question of own resources.
madam president, this recovery mechanism has three main problems which i would summarize as follows: how much, who pays and under what conditions will it be applied? first of all , let 's not make this into something it 's not: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's not even enough to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic let alone to revive and modernize economies. it's not a silver bullet, it's not really a bazooka. secondly, what is most likely, what is certain at the moment, is that this mechanism will be reimbursed by the member states themselves who now receive it on account of future payments. they will pay what they receive now with cuts in future budget transfers. thirdly, this mechanism is tied to the economic and political conditionality imposed by the european union. to understand what this means, i would remind you that two years ago, in the european commission's country recommendations, the european commission called for portugal to cut health expenditure. there is always a margin of political manoeuvre in the application of this as of any other regulation. but to leave the application of this money to the dictates of these gentlemen cannot be a good thing.
madam president, we are suffering the second, the third, and maybe soon, the fourth wave of the virus. that also means a second, a third and maybe a fourth wave of the economic crisis. this recovery package was designed only for the first wave. i warn this parliament: member states will come for more european money. there are three things we need to clarify right now. first, national parliaments must immediately ratify the decision on own resources: in other words, there will be no european money without new resources. second, parliament must be involved in the decision—making process from beginning to end, and our opinion must be taken into account by the commission. third, parliament must also be involved in the evaluation of the 27 national plans on an equal footing with the council. national governments have a very bad habit of quickly being in brussels when they are ask for money, but when it is about transparency and accountability, they turn a blind eye. this is why, madam president, i ask you, please, to formally extend an invitation to the heads of government of the 27 to come to this parliament and to present their national plans here, which i must insist are possible because of the generosity of europeans. we are ready to deliver eur 750 billion, but for the sake of transparency and decency, don’t do this with the lights off and in the backyard of democracy.
madam president, today is the international day of the greek language and i shall be speaking in my mother tongue, which is also a fundamental foundation of our european culture. today is a good day. we have a deal with a satisfactory outcome and we will support the recovery and resilience facility, which includes grants and loans. it is the european union's largest financial instrument to date and will be its contribution to tackling the impact of the pandemic to the fullest, so as to re-launch our economies and make them sustainable and resilient in the future. the european parliament has set itself a very specific objective. since this is an unprecedented crisis with enormous negative economic and social consequences, unprecedented measures are required and must be reflected in practice. we have fought persistently in the negotiations and have reached a final agreement which states that we are prioritising our joint action to deal with this crisis. this is a very important step we are taking as the european construction. we are experiencing the second wave of the pandemic and it is workers, households, businesses, vulnerable groups, women, children, education, culture and so many other sectors that have been affected and need support that are suffering. this mechanism enables member states to continue to raise funds for reforms and investments in a wide range of sectors: employment, health, tourism, research and innovation, environment and energy, small and medium-sized enterprises and so on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i note that there is a reference in the text to islands and outlying areas and the need for greater attention by the european union because of the particularities they face. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the countries of central and eastern europe, the former soviet union and the countries of eastern europe. it is also an opportunity to proceed immediately with the revision of the stability pact.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, madam secretary of state, just a year ago no one in this house could have imagined a pandemic of this magnitude, a pandemic that has taken our affections and put our economy in crisis, but at the same time has made us witness to the redemption of europe. of course, we could dwell on the intergovernmental approach with which we have arrived at the recovery or on the critical aspects of this regulation. however, i think it is important to stress the historic turning point that this moment represents for the process of european integration. in the face of the pandemic crisis, we chose to make common debt, to distribute resources in a solidarity way, to base national recovery plans on social cohesion and the challenges of tomorrow: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the environment, climate change, which must be addressed by at least 37% of the resources, digital with at least 20% and attention to the new generations. it may not seem like much to some - and it is to my idea of europe - but the right path has been taken. it is up to us and our countries to go forward with courage and without looking back.
madam president, the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) is a crucial part of the eu’s response to the economic shock caused by the pandemic. it is already a historic achievement in at least three aspects: first, the amount of money it will mobilise; second, the way it will be financed through common debt; and third, the priorities it will have to concentrate on, mainly relating to the climate and the digital transition, but also social cohesion and resilience. however, we need to make these funds a success also in another aspect: in their implementation and execution. and for this it is imperative that projects financed by the facility address structural deficits and bring about real transformation of our economies, that in the private sector smes can also become the beneficiaries of these funds and sub-state governments, having first-hand information on the needs of their economies and territories, get involved in the whole cycle of decision-making and governance of the investment plans. the recovery and transformation of some of our economies may largely rely on the smooth execution of these funds.
mr president, we are talking about spending a lot of money here: the commission has already but maybe i should say it: that money's not here yet. the ratification of the fund is done through the national parliaments of 27 member states. most countries have a bicameral system, so there are over 50 parliaments. the german bundestag must pay attention. the eu is attracting a lot of power. there is a transformation, a transformation of the eu into a federal state. that could raise the german horde to the requirement of a two-thirds majority in the bundestag. look at the netherlands. the senate is not gonna be happy about another round of transfers. the elections for the house of commons are on 17 march and public opinion does not like this proposal. so, commissioner, do not cheer too early. you're not here yet.
madam president, spain ranks first in covid victims, but it ranks last in government support to small businesses and self-employed workers. without support, thousands will go bankrupt, but the spanish government has increased the budget for the king and for the army, and has no plans for struggling businesses. spain will be the top beneficiary of the recovery fund. will they invest this money wisely? well, the government has set up an allocation scheme, tailor—made to benefit the big ibex 35 spanish corporations. spanish crony capitalism periodically threatens the stability of the eurozone. a decade ago, taxpayers rescued banks that never paid back. and once again, now the spanish oligarchy is ready to take the money – the european taxpayers’ money – and run, with the permission of the commission! mr commissioner, your protection of spanish malpractice is dragging the europeans into the mud. last week’s embarrassment in moscow with mr borrell was just a first taste.
madam president! the crisis is not a good time for community solutions. the dramatic nature of the situation calls for rapid intergovernmental responses, which puts parliament in a difficult position. this was the case during the financial crisis, when various ad hoc rescue mechanisms were created, which eventually became the permanent european stability mechanism. it's the same now. this recovery and resilience facility, which is the heart of the recovery plan, was originally an intergovernmental project. siegfried mureşan and others have taken on the difficult mission of making intergovernmental things community. i think they have done the maximum possible by turning the ex post control of parliament into a monitoring of the individual stages of implementation of this programme. it's been said that this is the hamiltonian moment in european integration, with its focus on debt communitization. but the debt-communitization was already done, as valdis dombrovskis knows well, who used the balance of payments facility during the financial crisis. the scale of this undertaking is extraordinary. but you have to look at the other side of the budget, which is the revenue side, because that could be the lasting legacy of this program. and he will presume that this will not be a burden, but an achievement for future generations of europeans. and another thing: this programme, which is a great gesture of european solidarity, in countries that are authoritarian, can turn into a privilege for their own with unfair treatment of those who are in defense of european values.
mr president, the recovery and resilience facility is not only a way to address the effects of the covid crisis, but a great leap forward towards a closer and deeper union. it complements the action of the european central bank and partially overcomes the lack of a common european fiscal capacity for the time being. however, we would be wrong to consider this facility as the final destination of our journey. this is just the beginning. full recovery will require time, energy, commitment and a great sense of responsibility. in order to succeed, new forms of dialogue and interaction, solidarity and mutual understanding are required. now, more than ever, it’s clear that having a solely national perspective for economic and budgetary measures is not only pretentious, but is short-sighted and inefficient. so a truly european approach is the only way to foster territorial cohesion, to fight social inequalities, and to support policies dedicated to the next generation of europeans. as a parliament, over the next years, we will be vigilant to ensure that the commission carries out the tasks assigned in appropriate ways so that the facility reaches its objectives, especially in terms of digital and environmental transformation, social impact and the next generation policies that we have envisaged for the union. it will not be easy. there will be bumps along the road and divisive forces will always be around the corner, and we got a sample from the debate this morning. so i say to my colleagues that we have created a powerful instrument for unity and solidarity. now it’s our responsibility to make sure that what was conceived to unite us will not end up dividing us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, something dramatic and underestimated is happening in yemen. the picture is disarming: the conflict has led to the deaths of almost 250 000 people, mostly civilians, since 2015; 14 million people are now starving and 24 million yemenis depend directly on humanitarian aid for their survival. it foreshadows the danger, to use guterres' words, of the worst famine the world has seen in decades. we need to take strong action to deal with this, starting with the identification of those responsible, the saudi-led coalition, which is responsible for flagrant human rights violations, and also our own. between 2015 and 2018, european governments granted licenses worth 42 billion euros to the saudi coalition. a very heavy responsibility from which a decisive turn of page must begin. in this sense, it was right that the italian government suspended arms export licenses to saudi arabia and the united arab emirates, and it is even more important that biden decided to go in the same direction. we have to insist. the international community, starting with the european union, must mobilise even more decisively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the situation in myanmar following the coup d'état last week is a matter of grave and manifold concern. the lack of news on the free and democratically elected president aung san suu kyi last november and the arrest of hundreds of political leaders is worrying. the introduction of martial law in the country's main cities is a cause for concern, a decision taken with the sole purpose of suppressing the protests that are filling the streets across the country, causing numerous injuries from rubber bullets and tear gas. this escalation is a cause for concern and risks jeopardizing the fragile path towards full democracy that has been set in motion. but above all, there is concern about the role of china, which is being referred to by many as the real director who brought general min aung hlaing to power, and the veto of china itself in the un security council only increases these suspicions. china is known to be implementing a strategy of global hegemony in trade, finance and military, and access to the bay of bengal and the indian ocean via myanmar fits perfectly into this context. the deliberate lack of transparency on the covid management at the expense of the entire global economy, the violent crackdown in hong kong, the questionable human rights management and the continuing aggressive attitude on trade require a strong, cohesive and rapid response from the whole west. the european union must make its voice heard. democracy in myanmar is not only a must for the burmese, but it is necessary for the stability of the entire asian continent and the resistance to chinese ambitions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in myanmar the military junta has imposed martial law to stop the street protests. this is the latest act of a coup that has turned the international spotlight on the country's dire situation. this shows that myanmar is still far from the democratic transition that the european union has been promoting in recent years. the commission has turned a blind eye to justify its diplomacy of tariff concessions, which has failed in its aim by encouraging unfair competition to the detriment of our undertakings. the burmese rice invasion is proof of this: in italy alone, imports of the japonica variety have soared above 80%, affecting european businesses and workers in a sector that is world class. we in the league have repeatedly asked the european union to suspend the concessions. we cannot accept that those who violate human rights and even exploit workers have a privileged channel to do business in europe. stop it ! burmese rice is stained with blood. by facilitating its import, europe is thus becoming an accomplice to this coup.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, i would like to remind you of some data on vaccination in the world. ten million people in england have already received the first dose of the vaccine; in israel, we are three million people, practically a third of the population. for comparison, the uk administered 12.5 doses per 100 people, the us 8.8 doses per 100 people. what about europe? europe is at only 2.5 doses per 100 people. the european disaster is recognized by all. in recent days the commission, which you chair, has been the subject of numerous criticisms by authoritative european newspapers. the european union has been totally unprepared in the negotiation, procurement and distribution of vaccines. in italy, partly because of the government that just fell, there are huge delays and the elderly don't know if and when they will finally get the vaccine. meanwhile, months later, the contracts with the pharmaceutical companies are published, but with pages full of omissions, parts of which therefore remain secret. we don't understand why, what you want to hide, because there is no transparency. there is no clarity on responsibility for delays in deliveries and especially on compensation in case of problems related to vaccines. i'm sorry to say. you apologized, she apologized to italy for the poor response to the pandemic, but unfortunately, i regret to say, even in the vaccination phase the european union is a disappointment to the european citizens.
madam president, we've been discussing the gravity of the situation for four hours because we all feel we have a shared responsibility. the vaccination plan is delayed in our countries because the companies are not fulfilling the agreements, because they have obviously overestimated their capacity. for example, in the czech republic, i can say that our plan was to vaccinate 5% of the population by the end of february, we have vaccinated 3.8%. so we are certainly behind schedule, but we also have the promise that deliveries will improve, and i am convinced that we can only achieve this by working together. i hope that the new novavax vaccine, which has applied for approval since february 2, will also be made available as soon as possible. the debate was very critical of badly negotiated contracts. i would like to ask you again, madam president of the commission. we need to be as transparent as possible, and if possible, we need to disclose the other important parts of the contracts, so that there's certainty and there's certainty that we control the distribution of the vaccine, not just the companies. people's health and lives are at stake, and in this situation, for example, hungary has decided to open up its system to the russian and chinese vaccines, because it says health is more important than politics. well, i don't know if this is really about health or politics, because if it's really about health, then i don't see how they can use a vaccine that hasn't been approved by the ema. i want to thank you again, madam commissioner, for your efforts, madam commissioner, you have my full confidence and i believe that we can vaccinate that 70% by the end of the summer.
before moving on to the next speaker, i will open today's first voting session. we will vote on the files as they are indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 13. 00 to 14. 15 and the voting will be done by the same method used in previous voting sessions. all votes will be cast by roll call. i therefore declare the first voting session open. you have until 14. 15 to vote and the results will be announced on the 19th. 00.00 hours
we now continue our debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the state of play of the eu covid-19 vaccination strategy (2021/2541 ((rsp))
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have welcomed the eu strategy on vaccines and the centralisation of negotiations with the pharmaceutical companies. today we must say with equal clarity that this process has not worked as it should and that much is still unclear as regards the contents of the negotiated contracts and the failed supply plans. in this connection, it seems to me peculiar that only on 4 december last the commission asked commissioner breton to lead a new working party with the aim of identifying and removing bottlenecks in the vaccine production chain. it is likely that vaccination will need to be repeated in the coming years to deal with new variants. we therefore urgently need a clear report on what has not worked, an emergency plan to speed up the vaccination process this year and an updated, credible, long-term vaccine strategy that takes account of production and contract issues.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the big platforms and social media undoubtedly offer great opportunities, which are useful to society, especially in today's world where physical distances have increased, but they must operate within clear rules. the web giants have been claiming for years that they are neutral containers. today, however, it is clear that their policies have real-world implications, as they proclaim themselves as the censors of what messages are acceptable and what are not. and this brings us to a big question, which has precise political and legal implications: who gets to decide what can be posted in the digital space? you see, i don't think there's any vested interest here. it is not a question of deciding whether to defend the ideas of a party or an individual elected official, but of protecting the values of democracy and freedom of expression, including that of individual citizens. that is why we as the league have asked for this debate. i believe that a possible blackout of donald trump or ursula von der leyen or a newspaper or anyone should be decided by laws that define clear parameters and procedures, and not by guidelines made in-house by private giants who act as quasi-judges of democracy. this is a role for the legislators, which we cannot and must not abdicate. the european union must act without delay to safeguard the democratic and free debate on social issues.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the media, diversity and pluralism should be linked by the same fundamental objective in a liberal democracy: the aim of the project is to provide citizens with a variety of content. we know that in the dsa, especially the large platforms are in fact obliged to have internal mechanisms to receive notifications from any person or entity of content deemed illegal. the same article provides that the notifications received give rise to actual knowledge or awareness, effectively requiring the removal of allegedly illegal content or disabling access to it. in essence, any report made in supposed good faith requires removal. i think it is unwise that the subjective assessment of individual persons or bodies can have a decisive influence on the full respect of freedom of speech. do we want to go in the opposite direction to the pluralism which should be the hallmark of a democracy? i think that a deep reflection is urgent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we as the ecr have asked for this debate because the majority of our social, educational, economic and political relations are now conducted on digital platforms, and it is not possible to deny the regulation of private multinationals, especially if this affects our democracies. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. what is illegal offline must also be illegal online, it was said a little while ago. right, right. this is the so-called reserve of law which is the basis of the rule of law.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years citizens all over the world have been giving voice to their thoughts and reflections through social media, fantastic vehicles of freedom, often censored and made inaccessible by the world's freedom-threatening dictatorships. but lately, there's been a very worrying trend from these multinational communications companies. millions of citizens are censored every day by officials who sit behind a desk and decide what is right or wrong to think. is it right that de facto monopoly companies should have this enormous power? what is a free man but his word and his thought? who is it that has the right to judge what is right or wrong? the judges in the courts or the facebook and twitter gentlemen who invented successful apps? the most disturbing element is that digital oligopolies are appropriating a real public function, that of deciding what is tolerable or not in the debate. in the rule of law, it is the law that decides what is right or wrong, what is punishable or censurable. these multinationals not only consider themselves above the law, but also above european and national taxation. small business owners and vat groups are currently being hammered by the crisis and taxation, and perhaps even censored for their social media views. free citizens who want to be able to express themselves demand to be able to exercise this inviolable right freely, including on the internet. transparency and freedom are two european values first and foremost: let's show that, even through proper digital democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 years after the fourth un world conference on women in beijing, and despite numerous cases of formal recognition and progress on gender equality, women and men do not enjoy the same rights and social, economic and cultural inequalities persist. today, poverty, education, health and violence still pose enormous challenges to women all over the world and to the achievement of an equal society. there is a strong need to address the stereotypes that continue to be the main obstacle to the enhancement of women's skills and the cultural root of violence. the key words for change are: awareness and education as a transformative lever to bring about change that can no longer be delayed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the good text is the result of a debate which has focused on many of the issues we have raised. i am pleased and thank the rapporteur for this important achievement. our priority has always been to achieve a real level playing field in the internal market by removing the obstacles which in the past have prevented the free movement of goods within the union by creating unjustified and arbitrary barriers. these obstacles resulting from unilateral changes have caused damage to italian companies. the elimination of the barriers to free movement which have arisen over time is the direction in which we wanted to go if we are to have a union which is really at the service of business.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with a simple card, disabled people could have access to the same services in all 27 member states and should not be subjected to any further discrimination. to date, no disabled person has been awarded a european qualification. in italy, only the machine mark gives them recognition, with enormous difficulties in accessing all other services. the debate on this subject has been going on for too long, which is why i have also tabled a question to speed up the creation of a european disability card. we don't make life more difficult for people who already have huge problems. this card could have benefits in the world of work, where the employment data is alarming: 50% of the disabled are unemployed. a simple card could give them a huge advantage. hence my commitment to work together to achieve this goal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in an ideal world, work is synonymous with emancipation and inclusion, but in the europe of austerity before and of the pandemic after, for many people with disabilities, work is a mirage. it is unacceptable that ten years after the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, nothing has changed in so many member states. this resolution is a wake-up call as the commission launches the new disability strategy. i believe that europe cannot be satisfied with statements of principle, but must provide for concrete policies, such as the portability of rights, the right to independence, full access to work and to education and essential services. we therefore call for social objectives to be included in the european semester, addressing the issue of multiple discrimination and providing for mandatory quotas for recruitment in public institutions, as in the private sector, with appropriate sanctions for non-compliance. people with disabilities are demanding to work for their own fulfillment and to finally receive what has been denied them in terms of opportunities and quality of life.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. in the eu institutions, i often hear the slogan 'so no one is left behind'. we have to be aware that people with disabilities are being left behind and unfortunately the slogan is still just a slogan. in the european union as a whole, only slightly more than 50% of people with disabilities are in employment. this is a group at risk of extreme poverty and social exclusion. inequality in access to the labour market is therefore a fact and we must continue to work to ensure that people with disabilities are active in employment and are self-employed. however, this requires multi-dimensional actions targeting both future and current disabled workers, employers and the general public. people with disabilities are capable and reliable workers. however, if we want to ensure equal access to the workplace or to the education and training system, we must bear in mind that this often requires specific solutions. so i'm all for creating all kinds of incentives, including tax incentives, for the entrepreneurs who employ these people. the removal of physical barriers in the workplace and the creation of an accessibility climate, as well as the promotion of flexible solutions and the full use of the potential of new technologies, are also important.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year the cost of the pandemic has unfortunately been borne even more by the already disadvantaged groups, such as the disabled. the latest figures clearly show us intolerable employment discrimination within the member states. we must therefore commit ourselves to the full implementation of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is a subject which is very close to my heart and i had the honour of representing this very parliament at the conference of the contracting parties at the united nations in new york a few years ago. we need to increase social protection, introducing employment quotas for disabled people, guaranteeing equal pay, increasing investment in training and accessible mobility - i am thinking of the great work done on this last issue by activists such as iacopo melio, now regional councillor and european citizen of the year, and my fellow citizen nicola torre - because the participation of people with disabilities is needed in the implementation of policies that affect them. there's a lot to do. reform the european accessibility act and support the strategy of the european commission. we're ready to work. the rights can't just be on paper.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission, i welcome your report on the implementation of this report, and i really thank you for this wide-ranging debate and very important discussion, and i am grateful for your valuable opinions and recommendations. we agree on many of them, and i believe that we are able to take a lot of them into account in the preparation of the new disability strategy. so the implementation is ahead of us. we intend to work closely with member states, civil society and representative organisations of persons with disabilities whose opinions and assistance are key for successful implementation. we will create the disability platform, which will replace the current high—level group on disability. it should support the implementation of this strategy and the national disability strategies. we will encourage member states to adopt ambitious national strategies to foster the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and of the eu strategy at national, regional and local level. we will also promote the use of eu funding by member states to support the implementation of their national strategies and the un convention. only with your support and dedication can the objectives of this strategy be fully achieved. i thank you for your support, and good night.
in writing. the current covid crisis has had a huge impact on the european labour market. people with disabilities are particularly hard hit. the unemployment rate is twice as high as the population as a whole. almost a third are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. these are shocking facts and there is a need for action. we need to ensure that people with disabilities are given good opportunities in the labour market. this is the only way to ensure full participation in society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination. we must, as the european parliament, send a strong signal to that effect. it is up to us to put our words into action and to implement many of the tasks mentioned in the report as quickly as possible.
i declare open the 2021-2022 session of the european parliament.
the next item is the report by mr josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, and mrs irene tinaglin, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the investeu programme (com ((2020) 0403 c9-0158/2020 2020/0108 cod)) (a9-0203/2020). i have the duty to remind you that during this part-session there will be no requested speeches or blue card questions in the debate. i would also point out that, as in previous partsessions, the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who worked with me on this dossier during the previous legislature. i also want to give a special hug to the rapporteur, irene tinagli, and to all the shadows from the various political groups. the european union needs public and private investment that strengthens the competitiveness of the european union, increases its productivity and, at the same time, contributes to territorial, economic and social cohesion. in this way we maintain jobs on the one hand and create quality jobs on the other. the european fund for strategic investments, known as the 'juncker plan', has mobilised over eur 500 billion and created over 1.4 million jobs after 2015. investeu should do more, not least because it brings together the 14 european financial instruments that have existed so far into a single instrument, with the aim of ensuring continuity, efficiency and synergies. it is intended to mobilise more than eur 400 billion in the period 2021-2027. in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework in which i participated we managed - against the wishes of the council and with very little help from the european commission, to be nice - to secure an additional eur 1 billion for the investeu guarantee. we have also made important improvements in the investeu negotiations. there will be the possibility of creating sme capitalisation instruments, which is essential, which is of extreme importance and urgency in view of the consequences of the pandemic, particularly in the tourism sector and also in the catering sector. the council demonstrated that it has not learned lessons from the covid-19 pandemic crisis, as it has eliminated the window for strategic investments. however, we have managed to make these investments eligible under the four existing investeu windows. thanks to the european parliament's insistence, we have succeeded in ensuring that, on a voluntary basis, member states can use up to 5% of cohesion policy funds and up to 4% of the national envelope of the recovery and resilience facility to be able to guarantee the national investeu compartment. this national compartment is a new feature which will be an added value once again if it is used well by the member states. in the face of member states' financial difficulties, this is an excellent opportunity to create, for example, a national instrument for the solvency of small and medium-sized enterprises and national instruments for investing in sustainable infrastructure, research, smes, skills and social sphere. but this is also an opportunity that carries with it an urgency. the possibility of using this compartment should be indicated in both the national recovery plans and the partnership agreements. moreover, it makes perfect sense that investeu finances what is essential in terms of investment, but is not financed by either the national recovery plans or the partnership agreements. investeu should therefore be additional. in addition, the combination of grants and loans allows projects to be carried out that would otherwise not be possible. it is essential that overlaps are avoided and that the recovery plan and also the partnership agreements are made in a complementary way. investeu is flexible, it is open, which allows member states to be programmers of the funds rather than mere users. i also thank you, commissioner, for your commitment to the negotiations. the commission now has a responsibility to be swift in its decisions and to seek geographical balance in the use of the guarantee, even though we all know that investeu is driven by demand. small projects deserve particular attention and also permanent and coordinated work with financial intermediaries, and here it is also essential that the advisory hub, the advisory platform, works well. it is essential that it helps the territories with the greatest difficulties to attract investment, that it helps these territories to structure good applications and also helps what is an essential part of the national development banks, the national promotion banks. i also hope, finally, that the commission will help to set up cross-border investment platforms. where is the energy union, the digital union, the health union? and as this pandemic crisis has well demonstrated, we need the resilience of european industry, in particular the pharmaceutical industry. we also need autonomy, and in particular autonomy in the strategic sectors. i would like to conclude by saying that parliament has complied. it is now up to the member states to comply, the commission to be proactive and also to do its job. european citizens deserve investment and quality jobs.
rapporteur. – madam president, we are at the end of a great adventure that began in 2018 with the first commission proposal. it was a long and bumpy journey, but we can now celebrate an important success. i would like to thank the present and past components of the negotiating team in the parliament, and especially my co—rapporteur, josé manuel fernandes, for what we’ve done together. in this term we went through some exciting moments, for example when, in may 2020, the commission represented the investeu proposal with a very ambitious budget, but also through moments of great concern, for example when member states decided, during the july 2020 european council, on a very severe cut to the investeu budget line, basically making it a marginal and useless programme. we did not get discouraged. we worked to give a worthy heir to the juncker plan and also to create an ambitious programme capable of facing the challenges of our times. looking at the text of the final agreement that we will vote on today, we can say that our commitment has been rewarded. there are more funds, there are more ambitious environmental targets, and there is more national european synergy, thanks to the possibility for other implementing partners to promote projects. but our real success has been to place investeu at the heart of next generation eu. investeu is a long—term investment programme with a particular focus on smes. its four windows cover the major objectives that the union has set for the coming years: sustainability, innovation, research, social infrastructure. investeu is a programme that, perhaps more than others, highlights the paradigm shift that has taken place in the union. the real innovation of next generation eu is not just the money made available to member states. next generation eu is much more than that. it is the acknowledgement that there are individual and collective needs that are currently not fully satisfied. the financial crisis of 2008 and the economic crisis caused by the covid pandemic have shown us that there is a lack of supply of goods and services that are necessary for the well-being of citizens and firms, and bridging this gap is the challenge of our time. investeu is one of the responses that the union has put in place, but investeu is not just about resilience: it is a tool for recovery. first of all, parliament fought hard to create a synergy with the recovery and resilience facility and, thanks to our battle, member states will now be able to divert up to four percent of their funds from the recovery fund to guarantee investment projects eligible for investeu. we also managed to resurrect a fundamental tool for the recovery that the european council of july 2020 had basically eliminated: the solvency support instrument. my colleague, mr fernandes, has already mentioned that, but i would like to underline the importance of this tool. now, both the european and the national compartments of investeu will be able to provide capital support to small and medium—sized enterprises that got into trouble due to the covid-19 pandemic. it is perhaps the most important result that we, as a parliament, have achieved. but let me say that, without the strong commitment of commissioner paolo gentiloni during the negotiations, we probably would not have made it. so thank you, paolo. our work is not done yet. we still have to scrutinise the delegated acts, in particular the one on investment guidance, and we have to appoint the governance bodies, the advisory board, the steering board and the investment committee. during one of the trilogues of investeu, i realised that the majority of the people that were present in the room during the negotiations were women. investeu is therefore the result of the work and the effort of many women. so it would be nice if the commission, the eib, the implementing partners, but also the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee and the european parliament, kept this in mind when they have to appoint their representatives in these bodies – not because it is a provision in the regulation, but because it’s the right thing to do. so thank you very much everybody.
madam chairman! we are facing a huge challenge in getting the economy back on track in the eu. the corona shutdown has left private companies with difficult opportunities to make money, and many have not had the opportunity to run their businesses at all. at the same time, we desperately need new ideas to come to life, to stimulate growth, to develop our societies and our jobs, and to become new european lighthouses. it requires taking some risks out there, but we need capital if that's going to happen, and it needs to be risk-taking, and it needs to be leveraging private investment. therefore, the timing could not be better compared to investeu. the main role of the programme is to strengthen competitiveness and growth in europe. but it's also turbocharging the green switch. it is important that the money is directed in the right direction when we are allowing public money to flow to the companies. that is why we have agreed that at least 30% of the money should be spent on climate change. i would have liked to see that percentage much higher. it would have given us better opportunities to give a hand in the back of the companies that are trying right now to create the new green solutions of the future - the solutions that we really, really need - and so it's out in the companies, in the market in the real world, that the change has to happen and the solutions have to be found. so i hope that everybody remembers that it's at least 30 percent. the percentage may well end up being much higher.
madam president, as we identified in the current sm europe survey, one of the most important prerequisites for overcoming the pandemic is improving access to capital and, above all, reducing red tape. smes have been hit hard by the crisis. half of them are facing extinction. not only would many jobs be lost, but also the unique know-how and technologies they have created. unlike jobs, these will not be replaced easily. i am very pleased to be here to talk about the investeu programme. it is an important programme that aims to help create jobs and help entrepreneurs get through this period by improving access to capital. i appreciate that it is specifically focused on the recovery of smes, small businesses, digitalisation and a sustainable economy. many were sceptical when the former president of the european commission presented the efsi plan that this programme follows, but we see that it has borne fruit and stimulated a sufficient volume of investment. many also argued that the previous programme contained a lot of bureaucracy and that this discouraged many entrepreneurs from applying. but i believe that this new investeu programme will largely do away with unnecessary red tape and will make the assessment faster so that firms can borrow as soon as possible. i want the money from investeu to reach as many smes as possible, supporting many important jobs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall speak in italian today. in italy, the economic crisis of recent decades is a crisis of investment, particularly private investment. between 2008 and 2018, italy lost 20 billion in private investment, which will decrease by another 16% in 2020, and foreign direct investment is drying up. this is why investeu is so important, as it will mobilise over 400 billion in resources. state intervention and the revival of household consumption, which is important, are not enough. private investment is the lever for wealth creation and redistribution, which is why i have to ask myself not how many bonuses i distribute with european money, but how many new jobs i create for girls and boys in the environmental and digital sectors. i don't have to ask how many sectors i'm putting a patch on or how many people i'm helping with the public aid i.v. but how i'm getting restaurants, tourism businesses, small and medium-sized businesses back on their feet. this is how you rebuild trust and hope in a country, this is how you do politics in the highest and noblest sense of the word.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today we are voting on an ambitious new european health programme, for which i have had the honour of being the rapporteur for the id group. the overall objective of the programme is to step up the health response through the provision of funding to member states in order to increase investment in treatment and prevention, by addressing mental illness, which is an indirect cause of sharply increasing pandemic effects, and by creating a resilient and flexible environment. although the new programme started as a dedicated and autonomous funding programme with a budget of €9.4 billion, during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework the funds were cut drastically to a proposed €1.7 billion. the strong position of parliament has enabled the appropriation to be increased to the appropriate figure of 5.1 billion. allocating at least 20% of the budget to health prevention and promotion, advancing the digitization of health care and preparing for any future pandemics are among the main parts of the agreement, as well as the prevention of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. the shortcomings in health care in the member states are many and depend also on a lack of funds, which it is necessary and urgent to channel in an appropriate way in order to return health care to the central role it should play. in this sense, european funds represent an opportunity to be seized to strengthen our health systems and to promote the production of active pharmaceutical ingredients within the union, to minimise dependence on the production of third countries and to exploit our excellence in the field.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has failed first in the health emergency linked to the pandemic and now at the vaccination stage. you talk about cooperation, coordination, prevention, rapid response, all right, all right, but the facts? israel, britain and the united states are all countries that are doing better than us. even morocco is ahead of us in terms of vaccination. every day we hear about cuts in the number of doses that manufacturers will deliver to europe. president von der leyen says that there will certainly be retaliation. unfortunately, there are no penalties for late delivery in the contracts we signed, so you don't know what retaliation i'm talking about. austria and denmark have already announced agreements with israel to research and produce vaccines, thus saying "goodbye" to the exclusive reliance on europe. the positive thing is that the european union has followed the league's positions. in italy, draghi did well to block the export of european-made vaccines to australia. it is right that europe should now block the export of vaccines to countries outside the european union in the same way. but the european medicines agency is too slow with vaccine approvals, and european citizens are beginning to think that europe will not save them, but rather that its bureaucracy and its red tape will sink them. so europe has to wake up, it has to implement the vaccine plan and think first of the european countries, as italy is doing, and then of the others.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the covid, the situation of fisheries today remains tragic. in this context, the revision of the control regulation is both anticipated and worrying. parliament has certainly improved the proposal and i thank the rapporteur for accepting our amendments, including the derogations for small pelagic species, the use of undersized animals for charitable purposes and the quantities for direct sale. but that's not enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not left behind. i'm reiterating our opposition to cctv. but we've been working with the industry and our government to come up with a sensible alternative. if the cameras are to be installed, only as an incidental sanction, then they should be temporary and removed after a maximum of 3-6 months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing vessels are not subject to the landing obligation. we have a great responsibility to thousands of businesses, fishermen and their families. let's not forget that when we make such important decisions. and the commission does not forget this either, especially when it uses questionable methods to influence the vote of this parliament: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask the commissioner to clarify.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu's common fisheries policy must aim to ensure the health of the marine ecosystem, and hence the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources, and also the profitability of the fisheries sector, because fishermen are an integral part of the human ecosystem which we must preserve. this regulation on the control system must ensure that fishing is tracked, especially - i hope - imported fishing, remote electronic monitoring, the ability to count all the fish taken from our seas, transparency of fishing, effective monitoring of small-scale fishing, which does not stifle it but helps it. we import 60% of the fish we eat and it is not right to impose strict rules on our fishermen and not be sure that those who sell us fish comply with these rules. we must protect our seas, our consumers and also our fishermen. if we do not protect all three equally, we risk endorsing injustice and protecting nothing and no one.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the european ombudsman for being here today. i am always convinced that its institutional role is of great importance to the citizens of europe. as shadow rapporteur for the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2019, i greatly appreciated ms o'reilly's commitment to ensuring full availability to cooperate and communicate in a transparent manner with the european parliament, a true cornerstone and guarantor of respect for the prerogatives of europeans. i particularly appreciated, and i should like to make a point of, the attention you have paid to the phenomenon of revolving doors, which is a point on which we must always continue to keep a high level of attention. we are continuing to work to ensure that every european citizen has the opportunity to feel fully involved in the process of european unification, which is under way with even greater determination and importance in this parliament. so, mrs o'reilly, your efforts to ensure the greatest possible transparency and full respect for the european citizens will always have the support of my staff and our group. let us not forget that democracy is based on a delicate balance and it is up to us, the representatives of the people, to make this principle a reality.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i am honoured to have been involved in the preparation of the ombudsman's 2019 activity report as a shadow rapporteur. i met with the ombudsman personally, and we agreed. in 2019, the ombudsman was very proactive in her presidency of the eu framework for the implementation, protection, promotion and monitoring of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development. so it's not for users of national sign languages, for example. as regards the transparency of the union institutions, citizens should put these expectations into practice in an objective and reasonable manner. the left has unrealistic expectations and voted for the report. it's a waste of quality. i ask the ombudsman to work along these lines in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman once again attests to the absolute value of emily o'reilly's work and once again demonstrates how the ombudsman is a valuable ally of this parliament in bringing europe closer to its citizens and raising the quality of democracy in the european union. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the ombudsman and urge her to press even harder, to demand greater transparency from the council, to strengthen measures to prevent conflicts of interest, to monitor european funds, to combat fraud, to put an end once and for all to the practice of unpaid traineeships in the european institutions, and to continue our joint efforts on this issue. finally, special praise for her extraordinary work in promoting and monitoring the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities: a just and necessary commitment and battle. in the committee on constitutional affairs we are working to give the ombudsman a new statute and to ensure that this institution has greater and greater autonomy in its action. we hope to see the same ambition from the governments in the council.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate our colleague, sylvie guillaume, who has done an excellent job and i naturally join in the congratulations and thanks to our ombudswoman. thank you so much for your work. but most of my colleagues have already spoken about this, and i would like to point out that our parliament is also trying to give you more powers, we are trying to get the council to listen to us. we want the european ombudsman to be able to carry out inquiries of his own motion to identify repeated or particularly serious cases of maladministration; we want him to have access to more documents to help him in his investigative work; we are advocating enhanced cooperation with the ombudsmen of the member states, and all this is possible if the council listens to us. i say this because the culture of good administration, transparency and good practice must take better root, and the council must be open to it. we need the european ombudsman to be independent as a basic starting point for the exercise of his functions. we have an office, i will not say halfway, but complete, with competencies, i will not say halfway, but that can be improved, in a world that needs effective and complete governance. we need it, because providing information or good administration, good governance, cannot be a discretionary grace on the part of public authorities. it is our duty and we must abandon any docility in matters of transparency and good governance: it is crucial, especially in these times of hyper-reinforced executives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the european ombudsman, mrs o'reilly. we 're in a tough time . the pandemic that has hit us for a year has exacerbated economic crises and social inequalities. in my country, italy, in 2020, the number of people in absolute poverty increased by more than one million compared to the previous year, and similar figures are coming in from other member states. in the light of the historical moment we are living in, your role is becoming increasingly important, as it is essential to strengthen the trust of the european citizens in the union, a trust which has been undermined too many times, as for example in the recent chaos over the purchase and supply of vaccines. mrs o'reilly, there is still a long way to go to achieve the high standards of good administration that european citizens expect, but i want to say that i appreciate your ethical approach and i appreciate the investigations you have launched into transparency, particularly on the ema, the european medicines agency. finally, let me thank you for your commitment to protecting and guaranteeing the rights of disabled people, which are too often not taken into account.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as i do every year, i was about to congratulate the european ombudsman on her work. but this time i shall use the minute i have to denounce a problem which was too quickly mentioned in paragraph 46 of the guillaume report. the ombudsman proposed that a specific leave entitlement be granted to eu staff members who become parents as a result of surrogacy. i strongly object to this implicit approval of surrogacy. surrogacy is a barbaric practice whereby a wealthy couple rent the womb of a poor woman and take the child she has borne. it is a new form of slavery, and women are once again the victims. by endorsing it, the union betrays the values it claims to uphold. she's sacrificing women's respect on the altar of a frighteningly expanding business. i'll never accept that. if, in the end, there is to be only one true feminist in this house, it will be me.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam ombudsman, i welcome the high level of vigilance for maintaining high standards of transparency and ethics, even in an unexpected situation such as the health crisis. transparency remains the main complaint. recent work on the revolving door problem is important. following the investigations completed, we expect the commission to take a more rigorous approach by following up the recommendations made. the ombudsman's role in relation to disability is important: i would remind you that full and consistent implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is essential. finally, the ombudsman's initiative is important, as it has led the ema to introduce measures to increase transparency in areas such as clinical trials. this is all the more relevant now, in the wake of the pandemic, given the centrality of the debate on health nationalism and the demand, also from this parliament, for greater transparency on contracts with pharmaceutical companies and greater solidarity between member states.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, looking to the future means acknowledging the mistakes that have been made in the past, and to do so requires the humility to recognise that some of the recipes adopted in the past have been counterproductive and may have brought the european union to the brink of recession: we are not talking about the future of the community, but about the future of the european union. addressing the economic impact of the pandemic means thinking about nextgenerationeu, which has indeed had too long a timetable, and so there is a fear that the stimulus to the economy is not enough, despite the mountain of debts that will weigh on future generations, despite the too many conditionalities still present in the text of the regulation, a kind of sword of damocles that will have consequences on the budget planning of states in the coming years. addressing the economic impact of the pandemic requires the ability to listen, without necessarily dividing europe between an army of uncritical yes men and those who are used to analyzing, reasoning and possibly criticizing those tools that do not work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, thank you for being here. being competitive in the times of covid means accepting a new challenge in which to create efficiency and competitiveness. there are two key points that must be achieved if we are to be successful in investing: the speed of execution. the sooner we invest, the sooner the economy starts up again. this also means simplifying and bureaucratizing, with an eye to micro-enterprises in particular. and then the quality of the projects: digitalization is key, but if we don't take advantage of the change in methods and timing to unbureaucratize, to make everything simpler, to revise procedures and processes, we have failed. one last point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you think you can put some pressure on these states? in particular, for example, in the case of italy's procurement code, do you think you would advise the new president draghi to review it and align it with the simplest european procedures?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in italy alone, in 2020, one million more people are living in poverty. one million is not a slogan but a figure supplied by the national institute of statistics. the increase in absolute poverty is greatest in the north of our country, the north made up of small and mediumsized enterprises and vat items, which are the real productive engine of italy and europe. i would like to say to you and to commissioner gentiloni: do we want to find a way to counter the effect of the pandemic on the economy? we are abolishing red tape, unnecessary regulations and complex procedures which cost businessmen money and time and reduce the productivity and competitiveness of our enterprises. finally, to stimulate public investment, let us not make the mistake of reintroducing the stability pact: we need more flexibility, not more austerity. in short, let us leave our businesses to their own devices, let them rise up with their own strength, which is increasing, and their strength is their commitment and their capacity to produce.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to see a europe that is less cynical and less indifferent to the syrian crisis than russia, iran and turkey. syria is a threat to security and peace in both the middle east and europe, because of the continued presence of terrorist pockets of isis, president assad, who remains a dictator by training, the influence of iran exporting its own form of terrorism, doubts about the dismantling of syria's chemical program and the migration and humanitarian crisis that is reducing the syrian people to hunger. mr high representative, democracy, religious freedom and pluralism have always been at stake in syria. european diplomacy, with all its instruments, cannot play a secondary role in forging a political solution in syria and must do so now.
mr president, i would like to refer to mr borrell’s statement that assad cannot win. well, assad is a criminal. he has turned his country into a slaughterhouse but, let’s face it, he has won. yes, the country is on its knees and the people who have been forced to flee their homes need unconditional humanitarian support. but when you say we cannot give up, mr borrell, i would insist on a distinction. we cannot give up with regard to our demand for accountability. there must be no impunity. but we have to give up on our illusions and on our complacency. and we have to start asking ourselves what our own responsibility is for the last ten years, and the fate that has befallen the people of syria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 384 000 people have died, more than 5 million have fled abroad, 6 million are internally displaced, 90% of the population is living in extreme poverty and more than 100 000 political prisoners are being held by the assad regime. this is the terrifying balance we face, ten years after a revolt that had instead ignited hope. a tragic balance, which calls us to play a diplomatic role, of course, but also a humanitarian one, first of all towards those who are fleeing from that horror or who too often remain stranded, rejected at our borders, in our guilty immobility as european states and institutions. syrian refugees often wish they could go home, but they can't. our duty is to provide them with support, humanitarian corridors, genuine reception. and of course we must stand with those who no longer want a blood regime, an enemy of the values we believe in. finally, i believe we must tell ourselves the truth and admit our mistakes: we haven't always made the right choices in the past.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president dombrovskis, commissioner schmit, i am surprised but also pleased that the european institutions have finally acknowledged the need to review the economic governance of the union and in particular the stability and growth pact. these issues have always been the basis of the political action of my party, the league, drawing fierce criticism to the point of ghettoization, with a pretexted and undemocratic cordon sanitaire by those who today, without coherence, share our same demands for revision. our economists, senator alberto bagnai, mr claudio borghi aquilini and the independents, professor paolo savona and president luciano barra caracciolo, have always been in favour of revising these obsolete and counterproductive rules. was a pandemic necessary to reach these conclusions, given that the same rules of the stability pact, the six pack, the two pack and the fiscal compact, in a rossinian crescendo, have even more negatively conditioned the recovery of the eurozone states after the 2008 crisis? what if there had been no monetary stimulus by the ecb, such as qe and the subsequent pepp, which drew initial criticism of draghi, but which at least partially overcame mismanagement? finally, the package we are about to vote on would only allow us to agree to the introduction of a climate indicator if green investment is excluded from the deficit calculation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it took a pandemic to affirm two principles dear to the five star movement: "no one saves himself" and "leave no one behind". these led to the recovery fund and the freezing of the stability pact. we believe that a third principle is now needed, namely 'europe for all'. the key to achieving this is to radically change the european semester and all existing governance mechanisms, placing environmental and social objectives on the same level as macroeconomic ones. we don't have to make up anything. it's all written. the sustainable development goals and the european pillar of social rights have been known for years, but they will move from being mere statements of principle to objectives to be pursued in practice by the member states. it will result in a different governance, based on a golden rule whereby states will no longer be admonished if they refuse to cut social spending and which instead provides for the exclusion of green and social investment from the deficit account. a gentle revolution is at hand and with it the future of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, commissioner schmit, it is in the news these hours that 15% of the workers at the pfizer plant in belgium are being laid off or will be laid off shortly, because the company intends to relocate to romania with a lower labour cost despite the 3.5 billion in profits the company is making from vaccines. even the most highly skilled workers are not immune to the liberalizations that have resulted from measures that have de-structured work and social protection over the last decade. apart from the ambitious objectives set out in the social pillar action plan, there are in fact no mechanisms to make it effectively binding, a prerequisite for giving immediate answers to the over 100 million poor people in europe. how can we guarantee a better future for citizens and their families if we cannot protect them from multinationals and those member states which use social and wage dumping as a means of competitiveness? if social europe is our common objective, and it is our common objective, it is clear that the citizens want more than just ambitious percentages, they want facts. we in the five star movement will do our utmost to ensure that this objective of a european labour market without competition... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing press freedom in countries which, until proven otherwise, cannot be regarded as dangerous dictatorships, the european commission has reached a trade agreement with china, a country where, ladies and gentlemen, journalists who write against the government are imprisoned. in this parliament, in the committee on foreign interference, of which i am a member, the high representative himself said that the union has neither the instruments nor the mandate to effectively counter chinese interference and disinformation in europe. perhaps, to be more credible, before giving lessons to european countries which have historically fought against communism, it would be desirable to support the high representative in defending us against these threats, which come from a state which is still run by the largest communist party in the world, and not instead to make deals with china which, with its propaganda, wants to destabilise the whole of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the press is truly free when the thoughts of journalists are free, unencumbered by ideological or, worse, editorial restraints. colleagues, you will understand my embarrassment in facing such an empty, so surreal debate: article 7, which was designed as a tool to protect the union's founding values, has become a weapon of blackmail against governments that brussels does not like. let 's think about it . where is the european union going? a commissioner, only a couple of years ago, said that the markets would teach italians how to vote. the european union will never be fully free until freedom of expression is fully guaranteed to everyone, including those who are not on the left.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if the title of this resolution had been 'european union, area of freedom for people of any sexual orientation', instead of lgbtiq, we would have voted in favour of it too, because we are against any discrimination. but your aim is something else, to use this resolution to attack the polish people for not voting as you want, that is all. then you think that progress is creating new categories and subcategories of sex every day, that in schools we should teach fairy tales where there are principles that kiss other principles, that we should legalize the odious practice of the rented uterus, you think it is modern to turn every desire into rights, even at the cost of violating the rights of the most defenseless, of children. for you, this is the future, for us, you're stuck in the stone age, like the flintstones.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lópez aguilar, for the text he has proposed, which is well-articulated but unfortunately embedded in ideological positions which undermine its content. what does protecting children mean to you? one in four european children is at risk of poverty or social exclusion, not to mention children who are victims of physical or psychological violence, abuse or exploitation. children are exposed today more than ever to threats not only in the real world but also on the web, even more dangerous because they are hidden. for young people, the online space is a vital space: the city squares and streets have been replaced by virtual spaces, which it is our duty to make safe. investing in children means providing them with education, opportunities, treatment, eliminating the fragility of their disability, and certainly not changing the "migrant narrative", introducing sex education in schools or integrating the roma, who use their traditions as an alibi for the lack of schooling of children. i believe that these are not the main issues in today's debate and that their only result is to divide rather than unite, boycotting the common effort we must make to defend our children seriously and to ensure a better future for them. for these reasons, we will abstain.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very concerned about the situation of children in europe. the pandemic and lockdown have led to an increase in incidents of psychological distress, depression, and domestic violence. in italy alone, an estimated 20% increase in suicide attempts among younger people: between closed schools and endless hours in front of screens, too many of them have fallen into extreme forms of self-harm and deadly social media challenges. i want to remind you of the recent case of antonella sicomoro, an italian girl who was the victim, at just 10 years old, of a crazy game on tiktok. if we're going to really get back on track, kids need to take back their sociability. serious measures must be taken to get them back to school and to focus on their training so that they can develop the skills they need for their future. although they are less affected by the virus, they are the ones who are likely to pay the highest price. what will happen to generations in the midst of a pandemic? we can't leave them alone and we have to think about their families.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the openlux investigation and the tax justice network report once again highlight the inadequacy of the european union's taxation system in combating tax evasion and fraud. the multinationals, thanks also to the recent restrictions on mobility, continue to profit from the culpable inertia of governments and european institutions, accumulating profits without fulfilling the redistributive obligations which our legal systems place on all economic actors. some countries practice tax dumping to the detriment of others, by taking revenue away from them and encouraging the evasive behaviour of companies which, thanks to the single market, relocate their tax headquarters where it is most convenient. this draining of billions of euros from the public coffers of the states forces small businesses and households to pay more taxes with greater sacrifices. the portuguese presidency is working to achieve public reporting which would require multinational companies to declare the profits made in each country in which they operate. this would not only highlight the shifting of profits and related revenue, but would discourage it. but the obstructionism of some countries has so far blocked everything. today we must show our citizens that the european parliament is here to protect them. private companies pursue their own profits, institutions must look after the public interest. so i ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to proceed with courage in this work, resisting the undue pressure that the lobbies will exert to preserve their privileges.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your sympathy and condolences on the loss of our compatriots, ambassador luca attanasio and carabiniere vittorio iacovacci, who were brutally murdered along with their driver three weeks ago in the democratic republic of congo. almost a month after this vile attack, the investigation has still not led to the identification of the killers. among the many suspects are local brigands rather than jihadist groups affiliated since 2018 with isis. the gravity of the facts, as well as the persistence of this violence in an area particularly rich in mineral resources, requires europe to pay no more attention to the region but to take an active part in it, starting with the investigations which the un is carrying out and on which i believe europe should join italy in demanding clarifications. the monusco peacekeeping mission employs 14 000 soldiers, has been operating for more than 20 years and costs almost one billion euros a year: how is it that with so many resources deployed, our men have not been protected? that is why, until the full light is shed on this tragedy, we must consider suspending cooperation with the congolese authorities and european programmes co-financed by the commission and parliament. the attack on 22 february is all the more serious because it comes just a few months after another violent attack on an italian diplomat, the consul in gedda, stefano stucci, a sign that the profession of the diplomat has become more dangerous, especially in areas of the world where economic and political interests are intertwined with guerrilla warfare and instability. we must also do more to defend our diplomatic representations: it is our job to bring justice to the victims and to hold them accountable. we owe it to the families, we owe it to pay proper tribute to those who lost their lives serving their country far from home and we owe it to the fellow soldiers of the carabinieri, always in the front line for the peace and security of all of us.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the assassination of ambassador luca attanasio and of carabiniere vittorio iacovacci has unfortunately brought the spotlight back on this forgotten continent, and in particular on the democratic republic of congo. the congo is unfortunately the focus of enormous interest because of its extraordinary wealth of subsoil and, as if that were not enough, amidst endemic violence and internal political tensions, the threat of islamic fundamentalism is also inserted. the eu must continue to be present in africa and contribute to the security of its officials and the diplomats of the member states with all possible resources and also with new technologies. a new eu-africa partnership based on mutual respect is needed. we must stop applying a neo-colonialist approach and allow africans to control their own resources. i have a strong request, because we do not want to be here to talk about this subject, we do not want to be forced to pay tribute to those who still deserve to be alive with their families. two servants of the state, two patriots, who have honored to the extreme sacrifice, giving their lives, this service to their country but not only to italy, but also to all of europe and the whole world. so, on behalf of the ecr group and the fratelli d'italia, i ask that all possible pressure be put on the congolese government so that justice is obtained in a short time and above all that it has the maximum support in the investigations.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the league and i join in the sadness that has gripped italy over the death of two young and loyal servants of the state, ambassador attanasio and carabiniere iacovacci, who were taken from their loved ones along with their driver while they were honouring the name of italy. but the emotion of remembrance is not enough. we need the truth about this brutal attack and a change of pace in europe's policy in africa. there are too many interests in the congo region, too many dark spots in the un mission there, which has proved costly and fruitless, too many massacres involving dozens of armed militias, including groups linked to isis, which have not been taken into account. in this particular area, there were 2,000 civilian deaths in the last year alone and over 170 kidnappings. it takes a commitment to honor those who worked with passion and professionalism and sadly lost their lives. the european union must strike a blow and play an active part in this country, where violence is unfortunately a daily occurrence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today it is we, italy, who pay the highest tribute with the barbarous murder of ambassador luca attanasio and carabiniere vittorio iacovacci, but before us the same tragedy was experienced by many other people who gave their lives for the good of the country. above all, let us not forget the thousands of women, men and children who are massacred every day in one of the richest areas of the world in terms of natural resources. the innocent victims of a war for the savage exploitation of resources from which the congolese people have never benefited. in the congo, words like peace, health and education are a privilege for the very few. ambassador attanasio was well aware of the origins of the congolese instability, he was aware of the dangers of his work but he also knew that what he was carrying out was a mission, putting peace and justice at the service of the congolese people. and we have a duty to follow his example, to shed light on the barbaric murder, to demand justice for this heinous slaughter, to put an end to the impunity of those who are guilty of such crimes and, above all, to contribute to the stability of the congo which, as ambassador attanasio himself said, "is a nation thirsting for peace, after three wars lasting twenty years. "let me finally express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims, to the diplomatic corps and to the carabinieri.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us first of all pay tribute to the italian ambassador luca attanasio and the two other victims, whose murder is, unfortunately, a reminder of the risks faced by humanitarian personnel. the case concerned a world food programme convoy in eastern congo, which is struggling with the proliferation of armed groups. in 2019, there were more than 130 in south and north kivu alone, compared to 70 in 2015. the key is some 1.8 million people displaced in 2018, a record after ethiopia, and 12.8 million reduced to poverty. in the face of this record, the denunciation of the protagonists remains elusive, whether it is the shadowy role played for a time by rwanda or the links suspected by the un mission itself between the ugandan armed group of the allied democratic forces and the international islamist terrorism that, from al-shabab to al qaeda, ravages the african continent. our lucid analysis of the causes of this conflict will determine the eventual resolution of africa's longest-running humanitarian crisis.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the murder of the colleagues of ambassador luca attanasio has tragically brought the world's attention to the deteriorating security situation in eastern congo. we must say that the european union cannot tolerate attacks on its humanitarian functionaries. the protection of humanitarian workers is essential for effective aid delivery. this unfortunate incident highlights the biggest obstacle to the development of the democratic republic of congo, the central government's inability to guarantee the safety of its people. unfortunately, the government's rural presence is barely perceptible at the regional level. it is in the common interest of our african partners and of the union to strengthen the position of the congolese government and to lay the foundations for security. all of this is a necessary prerequisite for creating our sustainable development practices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the congo is rich, it has everything: gold, diamonds and coltan, the new black gold that goes into our smartphones, computers and batteries. but congo is also home to 120 armed groups, fueling a war that has killed tens of thousands of civilians since 2017. more than five million people have been forced to flee their homes in the mineral-rich areas where luca attanasio, vittorio iacovacci and mustafa milambo were brutally murdered. in the congo, more than 22 million people are hungry and five million children are malnourished. i have quoted many numbers, because numbers speak the language of truth. the truth is that congo is raped for its riches; the truth is that exports fuel wars that starve and kill; the truth is that europe, with its market of 500 million consumers, has a duty to change things. the truth is that by imposing import conditions, we are saying who we are and promoting our values. to continue as if nothing is happening in the name of profit makes us accomplices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament commemorates and honours the lives of ambassador attanasio and carabiniere iacovacci, an example of the generosity of italy and europe, who were brutally murdered in the congo. their tragic deaths make it urgent to redefine the security of our peacemakers, who are often engaged in scenarios of high corruption, violence and widespread impunity. the european union must use all diplomatic means until the truth is established, including the death of the military judge who was in charge of the investigation. we call on the european union, commissioner urpilainen, to suspend the visit programme to the democratic republic of congo in order to provide truth and justice to the european citizens and the entire international community who are waiting for it. this is the true way to honour the memory of those who work to give hope for a better future for europe and africa.
in writing. when we talk about vision, we must first see the problems, the needs of people living in the regions. obviously, there are some aspects that are not being explored at the moment, and that's why we're seeing a declining population in the regions, with more and more farms being pulled in. the people of the region need jobs and an income that will enable them to live with dignity. then no one will have to seek a better life in the cities or seek happiness in other lands. people need basic services that are easily accessible. we need infrastructure to enable access to those services. by disconnecting the urban and rural, by optimising, we are condemning the regions. and this is not just done at the regional level, but at the national level. inequalities in direct payments condemn some farmers to poverty and create exclusion for others. attempts to reduce funding for cohesion is the desire to continue to see a widening gap and the backwardness of certain regions. so, to make real change, we need to have the courage to see the problems and to tackle them, creating a more solidarity-based, more equal europe.
in writing. the announcement by the european commission of a communication on the long-term vision for europe's rural areas has been well received, as it stimulates debate on the future of territories that not only provide food, but are the most representative of our identity, need their own and independent infrastructure, and whose inhabitants deserve the same standard of living as those in urban areas. the spanish socialist delegation is calling for a genuine rural agenda with a comprehensive vision for the development of our rural areas. this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas. this will not be possible unless we succeed in involving local actors - municipalities and inhabitants of these territories - in the design of this long-term vision. the report also makes special mention of rural women, who must be present and visible in the preparation of the communication. we also believe that the conference on the future of europe presents a great opportunity to develop the debate on the future of our rural areas.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the evaluation of the geoblocking regulation by anna cavazzini, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000010/2021 b9-0008/21) (2021/2546 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) for this question. in line with the conclusions of the first report of the geo—blocking regulation, i am happy to provide the following additional elements following the structure of the parliament’s questions. with regard to enforcement, the commission fully shares the parliament’s view on the importance of ensuring the effective enforcement of the current geo—blocking rules. for this reason, the commission is also fully engaged in cooperating with the competent national authorities to ensure appropriate enforcement of the regulation, including within the consumer protection cooperation (cpc) network. in this regard, it plans, first of all, to steer and monitor the cooperation as regards geo—blocking—related aspects of the coordinated enforcement activities of the cpc network. this adds to ad hoc discussions within the cpc network and guidance on issues raised as regards the coordinated enforcement and investigation cases. moreover, in order to facilitate enforcement – but also compliance – the commission will provide additional guidance within the context of the planned update of the service directive handbook, as well as in updating the clarifications on specific implementation questions on the basis of the issues discussed within the cpc network. with regard to the cross—border delivery, as mentioned in the parliamentary question, it remains a business choice of the trader to provide cross—border delivery or not. nevertheless, artificial segmentation of markets by traders preventing access without any objective justification should be avoided. the commission would like to stress that the geo—blocking regulation is a part of a wider range of eu measures to facilitate the active engagement of traders cross—border. moreover, the pandemic has triggered significant changes in the evolution of e—commerce. the commission will therefore closely monitor the implementation and first effects of such complementary measures, as well as the evolution of cross—border e—commerce, and report its findings in the context of another stocktaking exercise in the regulation in 2022. with regard to the audio—visual content, the commission will engage with stakeholders in a dialogue to identify how to foster better circulation of such content across the union. as indicated in the recent media and audio—visual action plan, the objective of the dialogue is to identify concrete steps to improve the access to and availability of audio—visual content across borders in the union. the dialogue will gather representatives from the audio—visual industry, consumer organisations and other interested parties, such as national film funds. it will be launched in the first half of this year. in practice, the dialogue could help define specific targets to be reached to improve the access to and availability of audio—visual works across the union and to identify concrete actions that could be taken to achieve those targets. the commission expects the industry producers, distributors, broadcasters, online services and other interested parties to engage constructively in the dialogue and to commit to take action. the commission will monitor the progress in the achievement of the specific targets in cooperation with the audio—visual sector. the commission will look in particular at any improvements achieved in terms of wider circulation of audio—visual works and consumers’ access to a variety of audio—visual content. the commission will take stock of the progress achieved by the end of 2022 and decide on the follow—up, assessing various options, including legislative interventions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much. yes, geo-blocking: the situation is improving but it’s still a very serious problem for many europeans, and as anna mentioned, especially the digital single market needs improvement. i will give you a concrete example. recently, i wanted to see a film that was available on a portuguese video-on-demand platform financed from the eu funds. but i was not able to watch it because i was geo-blocked. the number of those who want to access digital content cross-border grows very rapidly, and half of them fail. so it means that millions of citizens in the european union are hindered from benefits which the digital single market should bring them. and what about those who belong to linguistic minorities and who are deprived of access to culture in their own language? we like to paraphrase the famous sentence of massimo d’azeglio and use it in the european context: we made a european union; now we need europeans. commissioner, this goal will not be achieved in a union that passively watches how the freedom of media is being destroyed in some of our member states, how geo-blocking divides us along the internal borders of the european union. and the commission talks very beautifully. it’s time to act, commissioner. we impatiently expect positive, tangible, concrete results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the extension of geoblocking is right, but if the scope of this regulation were extended to audiovisual services, it would be much more difficult to continue to finance the creation of these services and content, with serious consequences for employment in this sector, which is so important in many european countries. if the principle of territoriality were to be abandoned, we would have a greater concentration of supply in the hands of a few dominant players, to the detriment of alternative and independent supply and to the detriment of pluralism and cultural diversity. the commission's evaluation report notes that this would not bring any benefits to consumers, who already benefit from cross-border access to cultural content thanks to the portability regulation, which does not call into question the principle of territoriality. we are instead expanding the supply of crossborder cultural content and strengthening the dissemination of works and co-productions with the media programme. the most serious problem today is the increased use of large online platforms in the face of cinema and cultural space closures, which are putting a strain on authors, businesses and the work of the entire sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, i am witnessing in my country a debate which is serious, important and dramatic but also a little surreal. the commission's mistakes are being referred to as 'well, it has little competence, we need more europe'. on the mistakes made - because they were made - in the regions of my country, where my party is also in government, they say "no, they have too many skills, we have to take them away". i think we all need to be a little more balanced and those who make mistakes have to pay. i inform you, and i think you know this, that those who have done wrong in my country are paying the price, both technically and politically. i would also like to see someone in the european commission pay up or resign, because if we are complaining about these contracts, which we have all been calling for more transparency on from the start and which we have only just been able to see, then someone has to give us answers. all right, attack the big pharma and all the manufacturers, all right, i'm all for it, but let's find a solution because out here people, who are worried, don't care whether i'm in the majority or the opposition: they want answers from all of us together, possibly perhaps in the style of the current italian government, which talks less and tries to do a little more.
madam president, i welcome the transatlantic dialogue aimed at enhancing cooperation. i deeply regret the council failing to provide safe conditions to discuss russia. that is extremely timely. on the euro, eu leaders should prevent russia and china misusing the common european currency, weaponising it against the us by undermining the role of the dollar as a trade-clearing currency or even as the world’s reserve currency.
madam president, at the beginning of the pandemic, some governments fell into the war narrative as if the virus had to retreat, impressed by the force of war-like language, military uniforms at press conferences and the control of society at levels never seen in peacetime. that has failed. two countries leading the full vaccination, israel and chile, generally have a population of about 29 million – less than five eu countries: germany, france, italy, spain, poland. the eu is too far behind them. i know that some of the strategies these countries apply are not applicable here, but there is a widespread perception that the eu delays are a failure and are probably costing lives. europe’s vaccination strategy has been deficient and weakens the internal credibility of a project that already has external credibility issues.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the road of the export ban is, i think, a dangerous road because it holds companies liable for not respecting their contracts with us. pfizer-biontech is supplying us in the european union with what is contractually agreed. and if we now put them under an export ban - and indeed, it was pfizer-biontech that delivered to the uk - that means: we are asking pfizer-biontech to become a breach of contract. what kind of reaction might this provoke? pfizer gets its ingredients from the uk. does this mean that we have to expect the uk to react by banning the supply of ingredients? then we'll have our reliable vaccine out of the way in a few days. we have to take astrazeneca to task. why don't we make legislation that puts astrazeneca in the spotlight and forces it to deliver and not hide the vaccine doses?
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your comments and apologize for having to leave earlier, because we are about to begin the meeting of the executive committee of the conference on the future of europe, a meeting which i am sure you all think is important. i therefore apologise and make my comments before the end of this sitting and i repeat that i am grateful for your comments and observations which i shall try to convey to the president of the council and the president of the european council. i agree that we are living, without a doubt, a crucial moment in the european union where we need to regain the confidence of the european citizens, where we need to stand together in order to overcome this unprecedented crisis that we are currently living through and this requires unity, unity between the member states and the ability to work together between the european commission, the council and this parliament. so it's very important that in this video conference that our leaders are going to have, they can look at the big challenges that we have ahead of us head-on. we need to address the health impact of covid-19, we need to address the economic impact of covid-19 so that we can get back to at least something of a new normal, and to do that, we need to use all the tools that we have. we need the work done by commissioner thierry breton in seeking better forms of cooperation between member states, regions and businesses, to improve our production capacity, our logistical capacity, the capacities of the production chains to be more articulated, to ensure the autonomy of the union. we need a balanced, effective export authorization mechanism which respects reciprocity, which respects proportionality and also the complexity, as has been said here, of the production chains of vaccines and their raw materials. we must also make sure that the treaties and agreements with the pharmaceutical companies are clearly respected. we also need to improve the system of sharing vaccines with our neighbours, with the countries that need it the most through the covax mechanism, through the complementary bilateral mechanisms and, of course, we need to advance the digital green certificate and it's not just for tourism, although tourism is very important, as has been said here, it is important so that we can also ensure the return of mobility of our citizens as a whole: business trips, business trips, family reunions. it is essential if we are to achieve economic recovery in the european union. i would therefore like to thank the members who have expressed their support for this proposal for digital green certificates and also thank those who have expressed their willingness to work towards its implementation with the greatest urgency. as the presidency, we will spare no effort to reach a position in the council as soon as possible and we hope to cooperate with parliament so that both co-legislators will assess all the technical aspects, which are many and difficult, and also assess the political implications of this proposal, as has been requested here, but that we will be able to reach an agreement in may next. finally, with regard to the foreign policy aspects that have been discussed here, i believe that this is an extremely important moment for this conversation between the 27 leaders of the european union with the president of the european council and president biden. it will be important to underline the relevance of our transatlantic relations and to build the necessary synergies in these difficult times we are going through. i also thank parliament for the opportunity to be here in this chamber tomorrow to discuss with you the question of turkey, in particular the withdrawal of that country from the istanbul convention. the council has repeatedly expressed its concern about the continuing regression of the rule of law and the shortcomings in respect for fundamental rights in turkey and i am sure that the leaders will not fail to address this situation, stressing the importance of turkey respecting its fundamental democratic obligations. i am grateful once again for this opportunity to discuss with you the preparations for the informal leaders' meeting to be held tomorrow and the day after and i shall certainly be at your disposal for further exchanges of views on the outcome of it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this commission, which is asking us today to vote on the emergency procedure for the possible adoption of the digital green certificate, has made a name for itself with its failed vaccine strategy. one mistake after another, deaf to our demands for a change of pace. today you tell us there is a hurry and we know it. we remembered with emotion, just a few days ago, the victims of covid, evoking, among many others, the image of the bodies of bergamo on military vehicles. one year later, and despite everything, we feel it is our duty to look to the future with hope. it is our duty to plan for gradual reopening in the various countries and to identify the means to ensure the free movement of european union citizens without discrimination between countries of origin. the economic recovery of our countries, including through tourism, is the only thing that will make european citizens truly free. trust, hope, security and happiness are essential elements for returning to life and we must insist on them. we shall not go into the substance of the measure today, but i can already announce that the direction which will convince us will be that of the provisional nature of the measures and the protection of human rights, avoiding discrimination or imposition. and we hope you've really understood that there's a hurry, especially to get started!
madam president, i have three questions. the first concerns the health implications. although i support the idea of coordination at european level to guarantee free movement, i think that this certificate gives the false impression that everything is settled. we still do not know whether authorised vaccines prevent people from transmitting the virus, nor how long they last. who, for example, has raised these concerns. so why not consider these important medical considerations? secondly, you mention the possibility for member states not to recognise the certificate in the same way. do you not think that more coordination would be necessary before we put in place a system which might lead to discrimination? thirdly, with regard to personal data, considering the medical content of the information, why not opt for a system that simply mentions whether a test, a vaccine or a cure has taken place in order to avoid the possible tracking of citizens' health data?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a health emergency but also an economic emergency. being able to move from one state to another is not just a personal pleasure: it is also the necessary condition for the recovery of tourism throughout europe. entrepreneurs and workers, together with their families, need to resume their activities safely and quickly. for millions of men and women, the digital green certificate will not be the panacea for all ills, but it is certainly a fundamental starting point for securing the summer, making the procedures for entry into the countries of the european union uniform and avoiding a mandatory vaccination passport, which would really be discriminatory for many reasons. summer is already upon us. i hope that the usual european bureaucracy or the usual ideological paranoia of the left will not prevent the certificate from being sent to this parliament as quickly as possible: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. i voted in favour of the urgency procedure so that the european parliament can deal with the european commission's proposal for a european vaccine certificate which would include proof of vaccination, negative tests or proof of recovery as a matter of urgency. there's no time to lose. the certificate would allow safe travel to europe and give a major boost to the economy. however, there is an important condition to be attached to it. the certificate must not be used to discriminate. every european must first have a chance to get a vaccine. it should be operational by the summer. a common european approach is in everyone's interest compared with the alternative of each country taking its own approach. if we can somehow give hundreds of millions of people a chance to return to some measure of normalcy, without spreading the virus, that's in everyone's best interest. the patience of our citizens is being tested, many europeans are in favour of such a system to be able to travel freely again. it is our duty to bring this about as soon as possible.
in writing. it is now more than a year since the start of this pandemic and once again we are discussing the problems that the commission (and the european union in general) has not been able to address adequately. on the question of vaccines, we have heard extremely ambitious slogans, which were, however, recalibrated only after a few weeks because of the commission's errors of assessment. the management of contracts with pharmaceutical companies has not been up to the task, and citizens have blamed it. as far as the economy is concerned, i support and approve the extension of the suspension of the stability pact, but i would like to stress that the paradox of the recovery and resilience mechanism remains, which, with the economic crisis in progress, will serve only minimally and whose funds we know are restricted. i would like to express my deepest concerns about turkey. a country which still uses violent and undemocratic practices should not be a priority for the council.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the eu own resources reform, on the recommendation of josé manuel fernandes and valérie hayer, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council regulation laying down implementing measures for the european union's own resources system and repealing regulation (eu, euratom) no 608/2014 (10045/2020 - c9-0024/2021 - 2018/0132(app)) (a9-0047/2021) the report of josé manuel fernandes and valérie hayer, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation on the calculation of own resources based on the non-recycled plastic waste as regards the recovery of gross plastic waste, on the method of recovery and on the draft council regulation laying down uniform provisions for the collection, management and use of own resources based on the own resources of the european union (com (2018) 0148 - c0020/013), on the proposal for a council regulation on the calculation of own resources based on the recovery of gross plastic waste, on the method of recovery and on the method of recovery of own resources of the european union (com (2018) 0188 - c03204/08) and on the report of the council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1553/88 (com (2018) 0148-02048) and regulation (eu) no 1553/88-020). i would remind the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i also welcome our commissioner, the speed of parliament, the responsibility of the european parliament, is contrasted with the slowness and, let us say, a certain irresponsibility on the part of the council. we have already seen this when, on 16 september, we adopted the decision on own resources, which is the decision allowing the european commission to go to the markets to get 750 billion euros, and the council did not decide until later, on 14 december, and even used the fact that unanimity is necessary for some member states to blackmail others - i am reminded of the rule of law case, the rule of law case. now, at this moment, we are going to vote on the rules for implementing the decision which will allow the own resources decision to be implemented. we are once again in advance because the council, or rather the member states which must ratify this decision according to the constitutional rules of each member state, more than half of them have not yet ratified this decision. they're acting against themselves because it's an urgent need for us to have a response in terms of investment, in terms of health support for those who need it most because of the covid-19 pandemic. so i say: we have once again shown proactivity, we have given our consent and we have expressed our opinion that the council should decide immediately when this ratification is resolved. at the moment we are talking about the decision where there is only one new own resource, which is plastic, plastic packaging, but we have achieved something which is extremely important for the future: a binding timetable for the introduction of new own resources, so that we do not have cuts in future budgets, so that we do not burden citizens. it was important, commissioner, that this interinstitutional agreement was made known to all the ministers, because, although it was presented and approved by all the institutions, there are finance ministers and even prime ministers who are unaware that this agreement is binding and introduces new own resources with one objective: that of being enough for us to pay the debt resulting from the 750 billion euro for the next generation eu. because right now, from 2021 to 2027, the weight in the budget is only 0.01%, just over 12 billion euros, but after 2027 it will be 10% of the budget, this weight and this cost of debt. i would remind you that 390 billion of the 750 billion which goes into the budget of the european union and comes out as subsidies to the member states and the payment of this debt is assumed by the next budgets until 2058 and we cannot accept cuts in policies after 2027 and in funds, equivalent to 10% of the budget of the european union, to about 15 billion euros per year. on the other hand, we cannot burden the citizens, and so our principles are simple. those who benefit from the internal market and do not pay, must pay. so we want a tax on digital. in addition, it is right that there should be a carbon-adjustment mechanism at the borders which invites the exporting countries, the third countries, to respect the environment too. we shall have a revenue stream and, at the same time, fairer competition. the tax on financial transactions is also a necessity and then also the harmonization that means tax justice. commission accounts: each year we lose over €1 billion in fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, the equivalent of 7 annual budgets. this is truly unacceptable and it is demonstrated here that we can have more revenue without penalising the citizen and then there is another point that is necessary. we have always advocated new own resources, but they are now more urgent. we must avoid this idea of the juste retour, of i want my money back, this idea that budgets are bad and then there are net taxpayers and net beneficiaries. as i have said, everyone benefits from the european union budget. the own resources we defend protect the future, we must ensure the present, but we must also protect future generations, and our budget for the european union, which is just over 1% of gni, is nonetheless essential for our competitiveness, for the health union, for the digital union, so that we can respect the environment and, at the same time, have a union which is internally solidarity and cohesion and also be able to express and implement our external solidarity.
member of the commission. – mr president, last year was a remarkable year for all of us, but also for the european union budget. thanks to the multiannual financial framework (mff) and next generation eu (ngeu), the union is providing an unprecedented ambitious answer to an unprecedented crisis which has hit our economies and societies hard. it’s a demonstration of solidarity and a swift response at times of crisis. it will be the largest package ever financed through the union budget, at a total of eur 1.8 trillion. momentous decisions were also take on the financing side with the simplification of the vat-based own resource and the introduction of the plastic own resource. before that, the union own-resources system had remained stable over a long time, and the main categories of own resources have remained the same since the 1980s. traditional own-resources contributions from the member states are based on value added tax and on gross national income. i wish to thank the european parliament for its unwavering support to both maintain the vat-based own resource as a historic pillar of the existing system and to reinforce this system with the introduction of additional own resources. while the main elements of the vat own resource are maintained, the complexity of calculations and, therefore, the administrative burden for member states and the commission are significantly reduced. let me come now to the most notable novelty entering into force in 2021: the new own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste. it is introducing a novel mechanism to encourage member states to achieve their environmental commitments without prescribing how. clearly, the ultimate success in reducing the quantity of plastic packaging waste that goes unrecycled depends on the actual increase of virtuous behaviours, using less plastic packaging while sorting and recycling more. to ensure such success, we must measure it credibly. the implementing regulations and the making available regulation provide the commission with adequate control powers and ensure that the commission is assisted by an expert group. these regulations also rely on sectoral legislation, which has recently been sharpened to improve the quality of reporting and the comparability of statistical data. this is crucial to guarantee equal treatment of all contributors. there remains one element in the package you are examining today which the commission cannot accept. the rapid review procedure that has been included in the making available regulation 2 (mar2) and the vat regulation by the council would put at risk the timely and comprehensive making available of resources by member states. therefore, we really welcome the support of the european parliament with regard to dropping this. in order for the own-resource system to function properly, we need a solid framework in place to ensure that we collect eu own resources effectively, in a timely manner and with minimum administrative burden. so far, the system in place has fulfilled the first two criteria as acknowledged in the annual discharge, where revenue has been a green area, and in eu ratings. the simplifications introduced in the own resources decision approved in december will contribute to a reduction of the administrative burden. to bring those changes into practice, it’s essential to agree on the implementing regulation as soon as possible. a delay would hamper the operationalisation of the new own resources decision. so far, 13 member states have ratified the decision, and we are confident that the process will be concluded in may, so that it can enter into force by june for the start of the ngeu borrowing.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i should like to welcome commissioner hahn back to the european parliament. the own resources of the european union are a very important topic. the own resources allow us future stable and predictable financing of the european union so that in the future we can avoid politically divisive negotiations like the four-day, four-night council meeting of july 2020. the own resources of the european union also allow us to establish a comprehensive budget in the future: a robust budget, which allows us to properly finance all the priorities that the citizens of the european union expect us to deliver. the own resources are an important topic but they are also an urgent topic, because the whole eur 750 billion post-corona package to help people, to help enterprises, to help regions affected by the virus, depends on the quick ratification of the own resources decision by all national parliaments. here in the european parliament we have done our job. we have given our opinion on own resources quickly. we have negotiated the recovery and resilience facility and the multiannual financial framework quickly and we have set up our internal structures here in parliament for the implementation of the recovery and resilience facility. this is why it is of the utmost importance that all national parliaments ratify, by the end of april, the own resources decision so that help for people affected by the virus is coming. finally, i would like to ask all pro-european groups to make sure that their national parliaments, their parties in the national parliaments, do their utmost to ratify the own resources decision quickly.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we’ve been waiting for the revision of the own resources system since 1988. and after more than 30 years, we are close to a historic turning point by approving tomorrow the updating of the implementing legislation regarding new own resources. finally, the european budget will become more autonomous, more transparent and stronger. we have a precise roadmap for the introduction of new own resources which won’t touch the pockets of our citizens but which will hit polluting companies, web-multinationals and fiscal free-riders more generally. i’m talking about the digital tax and the carbon border levy, to name but a few. but today it is less about the budget revenue side, and more about what it means to belong to a fiscally stronger european union; it is less about technicalities and more about political will and political challenges. to have a sound and responsible budgetary policy means, in the first place, to have the possibility to pay back the costs of the next generation eu that needs to be able to support the giant mobilisation of resources which will help citizens and companies to stand up again after a dramatic outbreak. it means to give hope and faith to the young generations who are completely lost in the middle of this never-ending pandemic, and it means to care for the most vulnerable people who need protection and solid welfare services, not isolation. our pride is based on the spirit and the sense of a community, the european community. and communities do work if we have a fair and good balance between the promises we make and the financial resources we collect in order to have these promises fulfilled. it is time to accomplish, to get things done – no time is left.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the containment measures adopted so far in the european union to contain covid-19 have demonstrated a clear and precise fact: the reduction in co2 emissions was 7 percent below the forecast, thus contradicting the mainstream environmental narrative. the sharp reduction in vehicle traffic and economic activity is therefore not matched by a corresponding reduction in air pollution; it is not sensible to block entire sectors of production and the free movement of goods in the name of spasmodic defence of the air and the environment. we must be more realistic in our analyses and proposals and undertake a thorough review of european policy, taking account of the geographical and climatic characteristics of each territory and focusing on the main anthropogenic sources of air pollution. it is very important to protect the environment, so: but let's never forget the economy and our states in crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'poverty' - mandela said - 'is not natural: it is a natural condition. is man-made and can only be overcome and eradicated by daily action". africa is a continent which often divides the member states of the european union; i am referring to the attempt, which has unfortunately already been partially successful, by national governments to make development aid conditional on the containment of migration flows and the closure of internal borders in africa. giving humanitarian funds in exchange for blocking migrants is not only morally repugnant, it is also ineffective. european funds must be used to combat hunger, underdevelopment and climate change; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. many have cited china's neocolonialism in africa: our policy must be directed towards development and democracy. let's prove it with facts.
madam president, i visited sierra leone on two occasions during the ebola epidemic and, like many people, i tried to learn the lesson of that experience, particularly in terms of health-system strengthening. unlike covid, ebola virus disease is not very transmissible and is not airborne, but it is far more deadly. of the 30 000 people that contracted the disease 10 000 people died and it affected all ages indiscriminately. the lessons were clear. we have to tackle dangerous and airborne viruses if they are as deadly as ebola and be prepared for that. we must strengthen health systems and we must prepare for the impact of loss of biodiversity. but very little was done. reports were built up. now, covid is a wake-up call: we are here again, and the manner of our response will define our relationship with many african countries for a generation, despite the ambitions set out in this excellent report by my colleague chrysoula zacharopoulou. the ambitions of this report stand on their own merit but it will be for nothing without an ambitious eu—african vaccine partnership.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is luca attanasio, the italian ambassador who was killed in the congo a month ago, despite the indifference of the italian government and minister di maio. but it is also the european union's indifference, despite the fact that the assassination took place in one of the areas with the most energy resources needed for the transition which is so dear to this house. africa is increasingly prey to the neo-colonialist strategies of china, turkey and so on, which are aimed at those energy resources and that control of migration flows with which they can blackmail us in the future. and in the face of all this, europe stands by and bears the consequences: wildlife migration and the threat of terrorism are just two of them. it is time for the eu to decide to implement a common and concrete foreign policy for africa, whose chaos is increasingly approaching europe's doorstep. it is time for the eu to realize that italy cannot be marginalized but must be put at the centre, along with countries such as france and spain, of the strategy for stabilising the mediterranean. it is time for the eu to realise the geopolitical importance of southern italy, a key bridge to africa, and to invest in it so that it becomes an outpost and not a refugee camp for europe.
mr president, the situation in africa is worrying. the rule of law does not exist in a number of countries. youth are leaving because of hopelessness and we also see many human rights violations. in the past decade, many migrants from africa have come to europe, and this has created tensions here. but let us not forget that despite the prosperity of some african countries, the young people have moved away. they had no future. and the eu really needs to respond and do something about it. i am thinking, for example, of promoting employment in green energy, such as solar energy. let's not forget china's role as well: china is stealing all the resources in africa. chinese ships are fishing for anything in the african seas. the european union must vigorously oppose this and develop an alternative policy. that is why i strongly support the european union's new policy towards africa.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new european union-africa strategy proposed by the commission starts with the idea of promoting a change of approach in relations between us and the african continent. this is a good thing, because we are moving from development policies designed only to help, to cooperation between partners who have equal dignity and who must define together responses to strategic issues, such as the challenges posed by the climate crisis, energy policies, employment, the right to mobility, peace. we must go all the way down this road: we must put behind us the recent past, in which we have looked at this extraordinary continent with pity, with paternalism or with the sole preoccupation of stopping the flow of migrants. we must put all the neocolonial temptations behind us and face those of others, of other world powers. change means building a different development model from an environmental, economic and social point of view. and this must also mean looking at migration differently, without fear, and considering respect for human rights as an indispensable element and a ground for clear and new policy choices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on this matter. being a woman means being invaded. they took everything. a woman took my childhood. a man my being a woman. god shouldn't have created woman. god doesn't know how to give birth. every man's ribs are broken here. our necks are as thin as a hair. men carry us like a funeral on their shoulders. we were under their feet, light as feathers. we flew from one world to another. and my words are their imprints. "müesser yeniai, turkish poetess. in turkey, 300 women were killed in 2020. in the last ten years, the number of women murdered in turkey has tripled. many women are imprisoned for political reasons and the withdrawal from the istanbul convention is further confirmation of a turkey far from western values. for women, for european values, for freedom, we say it again: turkey is not europe.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report certainly touches on many crucial issues and aspects, but i would like to focus in particular on the issue of data security. the pandemic and the increased use of digital technologies have certainly created new opportunities but, at the same time, have reinforced major challenges that often impact the most vulnerable and fragile, women and children first and foremost. it is therefore not just a matter of gender or diversity, as the report cites, nor is it just a matter of online fraud or misinformation, which are sensitive issues nonetheless. i am referring to hate crimes such as revenge porn, which often leads to suicide, or to the rise of online child pornography, such as those recently discovered by the italian postal police. it would therefore be important for this report to encourage cooperation in countering illegal activities online, to contribute to greater awareness among operators and users, particularly if they are more vulnerable, and to foster a digital dimension in which our data is protected and protected. increasing digitisation has costs, and these, unfortunately, are not limited to technologies, infrastructure and networks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the gdpr is an important tool for protecting the privacy of each of us and it is a fundamental point. but we must also be very, very frank about the practical implications of this measure: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the challenges of the near future, for example in the field of artificial intelligence, must be well placed to bridge the gap with competitors such as the united states and china. this requires a more dynamic approach to data management, always without compromising security, in order to enable companies to be competitive. finally, a call for data sharing, especially on public security, to become the norm in order to prevent the spread of criminal networks across europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why was daphne caruana galizia murdered? because he wrote. he wrote uncensored about illegal trafficking that also involved important maltese institutional positions. the journalist's investigations concerned, among other things, corruption and the sale of golden passports and the smuggling of oil, affairs in which government members are involved, opaque corporate entanglements and links with the italian mafias. but investigations are difficult because of the lack of independence of the investigative and judicial system from the maltese government. in addition, malta, as a member state of the european union, is obliged to cooperate with the investigating bodies of other states: but the answers that are given come with extreme slowness and difficulty. in particular, objective difficulties are encountered in obtaining cooperation with regard to the most effective measures to combat serious forms of organised crime, such as telephone and electronic interception. this is not acceptable . malta must show by concrete action that it is committed to fighting crime. the state, all the states, the european union, we have an obligation to continue the battles of daphne for justice and legality.
madam president, will europe ever be able to become a strong geopolitical force, standing up for itself and speaking with one voice? sofagate: it seemed the most natural thing in the world, a testament to patriarchy and a great deal of sexism, when the turkish and european leaders sat in the armchair during a visit to ankara. the message to the president of the european commission was a clear message to women and girls everywhere: there is no place for women in the front lines shamefully. the visit to turkey was a bust, and it came at a time when the leaders were supposed to be talking about women's rights under the authoritarian erdogan regime. and what does that say about the european commission, which has, or should have, power? we are still seeing problems with the vaccine supply contracts. i welcome the recent decision by the european commission to take legal action against this british-swedish company because of supply problems with astrazeneca.
madam president, we have honoured and continue to honour the memory of the armenian genocide committed by the new turks. but at the same time, today, we in the european parliament must congratulate the american president who, with courage and audacity, has recognized the armenian genocide by putting principles and values above the interests, threats and blackmail of turkey. the european union, a strong union of principles and values, will continue to regard turkey as a strategic partner? finally, we in the european union must realize what turkey we are talking about. we are talking about turkey, which stubbornly refuses to recognize the genocides of armenians and greeks and continues to this day the ethnic cleansing of cyprus, nagorno-karabakh and the kurds. we are talking about turkey, which has withdrawn from the istanbul convention and is blatantly violating women's rights by displaying an offensive and provocative attitude towards the president of the european commission. we are talking about turkey, which has not yet recognized the republic of cyprus and which does not accept or tolerate the disgrace and insult of its european representative in the cyprus talks. turkey, which at the same time is asking for an upgrade of the customs union and asking for money from the european union. finally, the european union must say 'enough is enough'. the principles and values of the european union are not negotiable and no turkey can threaten or blackmail the european union.
madam president, the policy of appeasement with gifts is fuelling the brutality of the turkish regime inside turkey and its expansionism outside turkey. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. turkey has excluded the european union in the run-up to the five-party talks, but you are offering to upgrade trade and talk about commitments. in 1974 the turkish army uprooted the greek cypriot refugees, including my family, my mother, and all of them raised their children in exile and left with the complaint that the leadership of the european union does not serve values but serves dictators and, instead of imposing sanctions, serves them with interests. i am finished, madam president, we have grown up and today we lost my mother, but we continue the fight. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the face of the threat of terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try to be as specific as possible and to say something different from what my predecessors have said. i think that, beyond the fact that we all know how serious the human rights violations in turkey are, how serious the aggressions in the eastern mediterranean are - but all of this will certainly be discussed next month - i think that this time we need to focus a little bit on the episode of the meeting of the three, because this is nothing but a game that we, the european union, have fallen into; a game with serious political consequences, because in politics symbols are essential; a game that has only strengthened the weak position of the european union, which, already, the visit of the high representative in moscow represented. i think that's where we all, (the president interrupts the speaker) the european union as a whole, have to work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president michel, you have made a bad impression and you have made a bad political impression on all of us, on the european institutions. you, president, have appeared comfortable with an authoritarian leader. erdoğan is violating the rights of the kurdish people, women, lgbt community and students. erdoğan does not respect the rule of law and prosecutes democratic hdp leaders, such as demirtas. erdoğan wanted to humiliate president von der leyen because she is a woman and the leader of the community institutions. president. - mr erdoğan, you have preferred president michel as your interlocutor because you are a man and a representative of the nation states. and you did nothing to stop it. that is why i ask you to reflect on the damage that has been done. president von der leyen, you have my full sympathy: i ask you not to bow to the blackmail and threats of turkey. commercial interests are not worth democratic values. erdoğan must be stopped now in turkey and the mediterranean. it takes courage to be credible and to be credible it takes beating the patriarchy in ankara and brussels.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is a great day for research, because with the vote in plenary the horizon europe programme, and therefore the eit, will finally start with the adoption of the regulation and the legal basis. we are happy to vote in favour of both dossiers because the importance of research and innovation is not political. but despite the result, we must record and express regret because we wanted to do more. the whole of the european parliament had asked for an allocation of 120 billion euro, a figure which would have been a clear signal for european research and for all our researchers. we all then recorded the importance of research and the pandemic has finally opened our eyes to the risks arising from the cuts made to it. moreover, to achieve the desired environmental goals, research will have to be invested, and the money allocated may not be enough. despite this, we are happy to have secured some eur 3 billion for the eit and eur 10 billion for the ercs to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. president, we are all supporting this programme: we hope we won't have to regret being so cowardly.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i come from friuli venezia giulia, where, thanks to a man of great stature, the italian civil protection was born. giuseppe zamberletti had ideas to deal with the terrible earthquake of 1976, which destroyed entire villages in my country, with hundreds of victims. as rapporteur for my group on the new eu civil protection project, i have carried out this task with a great sense of responsibility towards the thousands of volunteers, men and women, of the italian civil protection, who always respond whenever there is a disaster or a natural calamity: "present!" is the word. the report we are voting on, thanks also to the work of my colleagues in this house, is the result of negotiations and discussions which have led us to agree on a good text. we have asked for more flexibility and coordination between brussels and the competent authorities, without creating additional bureaucratic and regulatory constraints on national civil protection. i am pleased to note that the league's common sense demands have also been adopted, one of which is to avoid deploying eu risk capital in third countries: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i conclude, mr president, by wishing that these changes will help the union civil protection mechanism to be more rapid and efficient in responding to disasters. unfortunately, we have had the experience of the pandemic where, at first, the european response was too slow and too late. this, ladies and gentlemen, must never happen again. i'd like to honor the volunteers of the civil defense.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the ecr group and personally as shadow rapporteur, i think this is a text which is really pragmatic, very well done and which is going in the right direction, and i must thank rapporteur androulakis for his excellent work. i was particularly emphasizing two points that are very dear to me, also because i live in an area where this is a problem. the first part is the attempt, which i think has been successful, to simplify the administrative procedures for all crossborder operations. we see fire, but not only fire, but also landslides and other kinds of disasters. i am quite used to seeing interventions, as i live very close to the borders of both france and switzerland, etc. the other thing is to increase investment in disaster prevention, particularly in the event of hydrogeological disruption, and this is fundamental for all those who live near mountains, not only in the alps, france, italy and so on, but also in spain, and we must take this into account, of course, but we have understood that prevention is much better than cure, both in economic terms and in terms of human lives. both of these points, which i have taken from many of the others in this document, are the right answer to show a europe moving in the right direction, on the one hand more resilient, on the other hand more responsive to all these emergencies.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the surprising fact is that the council has backed down after the agreement was reached. this is at least unusual behaviour, which should not be repeated out of respect for parliament and the citizens. however, it was encouraging to see the unity of parliament and the strength with which it defends fair and just provisions, especially considering the damage suffered by the fishing sector due to covid. and learning the lesson from the current pandemic, i think it is important that this new bluefin tuna management plan allows the fishing season to be extended by up to ten days. my group has insisted that in future it should be possible to extend the fishing season, not only in the event of a public health crisis, but also in the event of adverse climatic events which are increasingly unpredictable and frequent. this will help the fishermen and the whole industry. the first priority must always be the protection of the lives and safety of our fishermen at sea. we have also fought hard to give more weight to small-scale fishing, proposing special derogations for small vessels and, above all, calling for the states to give more quotas to small-scale fishing. remember, a whole family can live on the proceeds of one tuna catch. it is about equity and attention to economic and social needs. when we talk about tuna, which is a species of high commercial value, it is right to look at who holds the historical licences, but it is also right to involve the other sectors potentially concerned, such as artisanal and sport fishing. the mediterranean is full of tuna: we just want to make sure it's well distributed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr ferrandino on the excellent work he has done, supported by the delegation. there are two key points to be made now. the first fundamental one is the call to member states to ensure that there is a really substantial quota for by-catches in traditional or artisanal fisheries, often cut out of quotas for administrative reasons or lack of representation in decision-making tables, but historically linked to this fishery. the second is the equitable distribution between the segments which already have considerable quotas, namely the small-scale fisheries, which often represent entire coastal communities; i think of porticello in santa flavia, sicily, for example. we follow article 17 of the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy, which calls on the member states to take account of craftsmanship and tradition when allocating national quotas for the various expenditure. the rapporteur has mentioned article 12 on the fair distribution of resources, which could help historic tuna such as the favignana to return. i therefore call on the european commission to make itself a genuine guarantor of the principles it proposes for a fair common fisheries policy, so as not to penalize and leave behind fishermen and shipping companies who must be protected even during the trilogue phase.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are here at 11 p.m. to discuss bluefin tuna without a final vote, after exactly one year of work, because the council has irresponsibly decided to reject the agreement reached, a behaviour which has very little precedent. today we are therefore calling for broad support for a document which finally highlights the specificities and needs of small-scale artisanal fishing, which provides for derogations for small vessels and which allows flexibility for member states not only in the event of a health crisis but also in the event of adverse weather conditions. the text provides, above all, for a greater allocation of quotas for small-scale artisanal fishing, particularly in all those states which, like italy, have so far allocated less than 20%, a just recognition that pays off the efforts made in recent years by fishermen to respect the limits imposed by the previous european plans. we are here to defend this document because everyone in politics, as in life, must take responsibility and stand up when necessary: we have chosen to stand up for small-scale fishermen, for workers who sacrifice themselves for the sea, for those who are now being tested by the consequences of the pandemic, as well as by years of overly punitive regulations. people who expect quick and precise answers from you and not power games that must, in fact, be stopped.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in two months' time it will be five years since the brexit referendum. how many disgusting lies have we had to hear from impromptu cato novels shouting "britain delenda est" just because they were terrified of a dangerous precedent? the same people who argued with conviction that withdrawal would leave only two days of food and medicine and that the united kingdom would sink into the depths of the ocean. they have not understood the legitimate will of a great and proud country which has preferred to exercise its sovereignty democratically rather than delegate it to grey bureaucrats who have in fact proved that they cannot manage even a condominium. characters who, if they worked in a private company, would be immediately trampled. do you not believe my words? with this damned pandemic, the citizens of the union asked for only two things: first, a serious and effective vaccination plan. secondly, rapid and appropriate financial support to give practical help to individuals and businesses. the first is that we are making the world laugh, to the point that the commission has refused to publish the full contracts. the united kingdom has humiliated us on this issue. i have heard that the european union has sued the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca. let's hope the lawyers assigned to this case aren't the same ones who drafted the contracts last year. instead, why does the commission not use some of the best law firms in london this time? they would be sure to win! as regards economic action, next may, i recall, will mark one year since the launch of the nex generation eu of which recovery is the backbone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the united kingdom, on the other hand, has been able to make high-multiplier investments without losing precious time to the point where i would like to bet here in front of you all that in two years' time their growth will be much higher than that of the european union. brexit could therefore be a great opportunity to make the mea culpa and radically revise all the mechanisms on which the european union is based, starting with its economic governance, while too many are already talking about reactivating the stability and growth pact before the recovery itself is implemented, showing that they have not learned their lesson. to err is humanum, to persevere is diabolicum. it took five years to finally get this agreement, having ignored for too long knowingly that the united kingdom is a net buyer of goods and services to the union and from my side it is said that the customer is always right... but maybe the people who were dealing with brexit didn't know that? since no one has yet had the courage and humility to apologise to the people of the united kingdom for the lies that have been told just for daring to no longer follow the wrong impositions of the union, then i do it now as a member of this parliament!
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2019 discharge opinion for the committee on agriculture, we worked with colleagues from all the groups to have a common position for the evaluation of the direct payments system and the evaluation of errors, as indicated in the court of auditors' report. one of the key issues in the text was the need to eliminate, particularly in the context of the next multiannual financial framework, the unnecessary administrative burdens that hinder the implementation of investments through the cap, and to simplify as much as possible the obligations arising from the green deal. we have committed ourselves to reaffirming the role of basic income support in the cap and its contribution to the maintenance of farming and livestock production, the reduction of rural exodus and the promotion of a dynamic rural environment. the cap as a support instrument for young farmers has proved essential and should be further strengthened in the future. digitalisation and innovation, as well as investments in developing short supply chains and direct sales to consumers, could be key tools for revitalizing rural areas and making them more attractive to young farmers. support for green agriculture, simplification and digitisation - these are the key words of an ambitious and productive agricultural policy. last but not least, the fight against fraud which still plagues the distribution system and which penalises not only farmers but society as a whole. (the president cut off the speaker)
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 40 agencies with annual budgets of over 3 billion euro are significant figures, compared with the budgets of many european municipalities which perhaps do not even have the financial resources to hire a surveyor or a social worker. the court of auditors of the union has sent observations to 29 agencies, which means that all is not well. there are cases of approximate procurement. there are instances of actual or potential conflicts of interest that affect those officials who may leave the agencies to go to work for the multinationals. and then you need to be able to look at the day-to-day: the european medicines agency, the ema, is financed by contributions from the pharmaceutical industry, from big pharma, and this, at least from an ethical point of view, should make us question the appropriateness and independence of this body. but despite the budget it absorbs, the ema only plays a coordinating role, while decision-making power in many cases lies with the national agencies. so, a lot of personal, a lot of money at our disposal, but as often happens in europe, then the responsibility always falls on others.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as part of the economic recovery plan, the european globalisation adjustment fund, which we are renaming today, is an emergency instrument to help people who lose their jobs as a result of the global economic crisis. the lowering of the minimum threshold to 200 redundancies and the broadening of the scope are a first response to the many questions we asked before covid when, alongside the agenda of the new political priorities, we wanted to see the tools to compensate for the inevitable impact of the same on companies and workers. however, european contributions will now also be required for redundancies due to new reasons, such as changes in the composition of the internal market, automation, digitalisation, the transition to a low-carbon economy and also the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. the european fund is therefore an instrument with which the european union is finally trying to compensate, at least partially, for the economic and social destabilization that, despite itself, will be caused by the agenda of new political priorities, to which the covid emergency, initially underestimated, has been added. we approve, commissioner, but we are not happy about it because it is still a tool to be used in extremely negative situations. our delegation has always supported the measures of this instrument, considering them as a partial return to the citizens and workers. we are therefore in solidarity with them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european globalisation fund is an extraordinary instrument of european solidarity and we of the five star movement strongly support it, not only because it will be renewed for all its programming over the next six years, but above all because it sets the principle of lowering the threshold for access to the fund for workers in companies with 200 employees instead of 500; this is a key measure for countries such as italy, whose economy is based mainly on small and mediumsized enterprises. but the pandemic has shown us that this fund alone is not going to be enough. with next generation eu we will have to prove ourselves capable of preventing business crises, by converting in time all those companies and workers who are on a dead track in terms of production and professional skills. at the same time, we must establish, also at european level, permanent support measures for employees of micro-enterprises, because the time has come to demonstrate by deeds that the new post-pandemic europe that is emerging is really for everyone and not just for a few.
madam president, there is good news about the revision of the european globalisation fund. at least two items: firstly, the use of the egf has been expanded for all collective dismissals, to include also medium-sized companies with up to 200 employees and no longer 500; second, child allowance. workers with children will receive funds to help them with their parental duties while coping with their unemployment situation. if there is an unemployed mum who is struggling to survive somewhere in europe that has to matter to us. we are facing a dramatic crisis in the labour market. millions of women and men have lost their jobs and it won’t be laws or regulations that will create new jobs and opportunities. it won’t be an enlightened leader who will create jobs and opportunities. it won’t be some reiteration of past and pre-defined solutions that will create jobs and opportunities. it will be concrete measures and resources, actions and not words. this is what europe should be about. this is what social europe means. we share our faith in this new vision of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is important, especially in these difficult times, that the union continue to assert its role as guardian of the rights and values common to our democracies. the justice programme has an essential role to play in this respect, in facilitating and supporting judicial cooperation and training and in enabling effective and universal access to justice as a key tool for promoting equality between men and women. in this context, it is important that the programme focuses on priorities such as the promotion of child and women's justice, the protection of victims and the effective application of the principle of equal rights and non-discrimination. for the programme to be effective, it should aim to focus on these priorities so that the implementation of these important objectives is facilitated and not hindered.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to secretary of state zacarias and thank you to commissioner breton for being here. there are many themes: i am sure that the commissioner will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. we also have problems with unfair competition, and i am referring, for example, to the dominant position of certain online platforms, which in fact in some sectors, such as the hotel sector, almost impose the prices and conditions for entering a market, or of regulated professional categories in some member states, such as in my country, tourist guides. warning: in my country, even non-italian citizens can become tourist guides. well, they see the unfair competition of a world without rules that puts them in trouble and not because they're not competitive and good. and here i come to a sector in which, in my view, we have a legacy of hypocrisy going back many years, concerning competitiveness and how important directives for the internal market, such as the services directive - in my country still called by the name of the commissioner who first proposed it, mr bolkestein - are going to hit and give uncertainty to a sector such as italian seaside tourism, made up of some 30 000 micro and small enterprises - a differentiated sector therefore - which manage a resource that is not scarce: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the resources available to the community are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. i believe that the italian government has all the factual and legal elements to explain why we have the current italian legislation. progress can be made in both directions, but i believe it must be made in the interests of operators who only want to work and greater certainty so that they can invest in their activities for the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to save the summer tourist season, europe must turn the page in the fight against covid, with reference to lockdown strategies and border closures. the ineffectiveness of restrictions and closures is attested to by dozens of scientific studies conducted around the world. the protection of vulnerable people is now an objective in europe. we have cures and vaccines: there's no reason to stop the economy for fear of covid anymore. today, member states should focus on herd immunity, monitoring the immunity of vaccinated or cured citizens, and the european union must allow states to support businesses in the tourism sector without exception, starting with airlines that have suffered enormous damage from the restriction of mobility. the reopening of the tourist sector without restrictions or rethinking in the summer season is not a chance but a rational and necessary choice to support the demand for tourist services, without which the sector cannot survive. no measure will be effective unless we restore freedom, the joy of life and the confidence of citizens in a return to normalcy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tens of millions of european citizens have given up planning their holidays and vacations because of the uncertainty of the restrictions. uncertainties that are also the result of delays in the vaccination campaign. in fact, the sector most affected by this pandemic is facing another nightmare summer, and the cost will be borne by hoteliers, restaurateurs, beachgoers and seasonal workers who are facing huge losses for the second year in a row. more needs to be done. we have been asking for some time that brussels should provide specific tools for tourism and catering, so as to guarantee safe travel and stays without discriminating against those who are not yet vaccinated. for example, it would be a good incentive to offer free or at least reduced-price testing for those who decide to go on holiday and to ensure checks on arrival and departure. we must act now: summer is upon us, we can't afford another failure.
in the name of the id group. the european union is not only a great partner in the european space industry, but also a great partner in the european space industry. we have high expectations of this programme, which should aim, first of all, at protecting know-how, laboratories and the production chain, a real excellence in many european countries. it shall encourage research, development and potential related to space programmes, including security, environment, telecommunications; support european cooperation between businesses and governments and with third countries, provided that they are allies close to european values. many programmes are essential but are not sustainable by individual countries. only european cooperation can achieve this. finally, it should ensure that europe can remain at the forefront in a global scenario where friction is increasing and our capabilities are becoming essential for the future and autonomy of airspace. italy will do its part with a solid industry, rooted in the territories and open for years to high-level international collaborations, as demonstrated by the recent italian-french meeting on space. supporting the sector and growing european integrated supply chains will be key to maintaining leadership in the space industry and to the continent's capabilities. in other areas, unfortunately, we have seen that, like europe, we have not been up to the challenge that has been set before us. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european space agency. the space challenge in the coming years will increase, let us not find ourselves unprepared.... (the president cut off the speaker)
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner breton, ladies and gentlemen, my party had some initial misgivings about certain parts of this programme, but i must say that, thanks also to the work of the rapporteur, we too will be converging with my delegation in favour of this instrument, because we are convinced by certain parts. competitiveness, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises; the fact that we have about a billion people, practically, in this area is very important, because we know how often small and mediumsized enterprises have difficulty accessing european funds, how often we have difficulty exploiting trade agreements that perhaps the european commission concludes with third countries and how much this pandemic situation has put them in crisis. it is clear that for this to work, simplification of procedures is also needed, because this is what the companies are mainly asking us to do when we meet them in our constituencies. it is important to work with local authorities on market surveillance, because, as has already been said, the health and safety of citizens in the food chain, but not only, the safety of products, also online, are all issues that we have to engage with and on which i think we should also work at the legislative level to make this programme work well.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate clearly reflects the importance of the programme for the single market and its usefulness for european consumers and economic operators. it can never be said enough, especially in this pandemic, that the single market is and must remain the backbone of our economic vitality. its values, rules and actors are the only dynamic that can put the european union on the road to recovery. the contribution of the single market programme is decisive, each of the actions it supports is essential to the proper functioning of the internal market. finally, other mechanisms will support this, such as the single market emergency instrument, which is being developed to better prepare the single market for future crises, and the recovery and resilience mechanism, which will help member states to undertake fundamental reforms to further boost trade. and we will be presenting next week our instrument for controlling foreign subsidies, which can, as we know, throw the internal market out of balance. in a broader sense, and beyond the programme, you can of course count on me to preserve the functioning of the internal market in all circumstances, and in particular, of course, for our smes. i also know that i can count on you to defend the single market. i want to thank you very much for that.
the debate is closed. i can inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendments have been tabled under rules 67 and 68. the council's position is therefore approved and the proposed legislative act is therefore deemed to be adopted. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the two honor reports. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) '. i would remind the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you very much and my thanks to the commissioner too. honourable members, thank you for inviting the presidency to this joint debate and for all your efforts to adopt the european parliament mandate on the digital green certificate in such a short time. we look forward to engaging in negotiations as soon as possible with a view to reaching an agreement in the coming weeks so that the system can be put in place before the summer. this would give a strong signal to our citizens of our joint commitment to have europe on the move again. the council has welcomed the proposals on the digital green certificate put forward by the commission, which aims at facilitating freedom of movement within the eu. we also underline the flexibility that the proposed framework guarantees, and the presidency certainly hopes that the deployment of the digital green certificate will give a positive boost to the social and economic recovery of our societies. at the same time we have to be cautious and manage citizens’ expectations in light of the fast-changing evolution of the epidemiological situation in europe and across the world, in particular as regards tackling variants of concern, as we can unfortunately see at this moment. the council agreement on the negotiating mandate was unanimously supported by the member states, and our proposal already addresses some of the concerns of the parliament, including a sunset clause for the regulation. we also remain open to further discussions on fundamental issues of protection of personal data, taking into account the joint opinion of the european data protection board and the european data protection supervisor. in addition, at the end of last week, member states reached an agreement on guidelines describing the main technical specifications for the implementation of the digital green certificate. this is a crucial step for the establishment of the necessary infrastructure, both in the eu and at national level, and i would like to thank the commission for all the work done at this level. honourable members, as you know the question of accessibility and affordability of the covid-19 tests is not covered by the council mandate, nor is any question related to the fees. furthermore, the commission did not intend to regulate this issue on its proposal. however, the council and the member states are quite mindful of the importance of eliminating or reducing the costs incurred by their citizens and facilitating testing within the eu competence as provided by the treaty. allow me a couple of points on this matter. first, the council agreed in this mandate that the certificates themselves should be issued free of charge. second, following a council amendment in december 2020 to the directive on the common system of value added tax, member states will be able to apply either reduced or zero rates to testing kits, which was previously not possible. third, regarding testing, costs can also be reduced through joint procurement or eu funding. member states are receiving over 20 million rapid antigen tests through the emergency support instrument, while a joint procurement with 32 countries for over half a billion rapid tests was launched in november 2020. finally, although testing strategies are the competence of member states, in january the council adopted a recommendation setting out a common framework for the use of rapid antigen tests and the mutual recognition of covid-19 test results across the eu. furthermore, the health security committee agreed to a common list of covid-19 rapid antigen tests and a common standardised set of data for test result certificates. i’m sure these efforts will continue during the forthcoming negotiations with the european parliament because we have the same aim – to facilitate the lives of our citizens at this very difficult time so that families can be reunited and so that students and tourists and business people can travel, finally regaining a sense of normality and putting our economy on the move.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank ladies and gentlemen, after more than a year of the covid-19 pandemic, we must remain vigilant, but we also have reasons for hope. the european vaccination campaign is accelerating. the last few months have been marked by numerous restrictions, including lockdown measures put in place to protect lives. today we want to give european citizens a hope. the commission is proposing a tool that will facilitate free movement throughout the european union, a tool that will be issued and accepted in all member states, thus allowing european citizens to travel safely and without discrimination throughout the union, a tool that will support the recovery of economic activities and could serve as a model for future solutions developed at international level. this tool, ladies and gentlemen, is the digital green certificate. the digital green certificate aims to facilitate free movement, at a time when we still need to live with the virus when some of us have already been vaccinated, while others have not because they are not yet priority level or because they don't want to be vaccinated. the certificate concerns the intra-eu cross-border travel of eu citizens and their family members, together with a twin proposal extending the system to third country nationals legally staying or residing in an eu member state and moving to another member state. of course, when developing the technical solutions, we will seek to ensure coherence with international standards that are currently being developed. the proposal is firmly built on two core values: non-discrimination and data protection. the digital green certificate will be available to all europeans, regardless of whether they are vaccinated or not. and it will ensure a high level of data protection, with a decentralized system of verification, using public key infrastructure. i welcome the support of parliament to make sure that the sensitive data included in the certificates is properly protected. this is crucial to ensure citizens' trust in the system. we need swift action to have a reliable and secure tool in place as soon as possible. time is of the essence, and we need to ensure roll out before the summer. technical work is progressing well to implement a solution that avoids centralization of personal data, minimizes the use of personal data and ensures security. i call on your support for this approach. the commission stands ready to address parliament's concerns on data protection and other points during the upcoming trilogue negotiations. if we can deliver politically, the technical solution will be ready in time. if we don't, we risk fragmentation across europe, with a multitude of possibly incompatible national solutions. we would risk having a variety of documents that cannot be read and verified in other member states. and we risk the spread of forged documents and, with this, the spread of both the virus and the mistrust of citizens. while putting in place the digital green certificate, we have to live with the fact that there are still scientific uncertainties regarding covid-19. we do not yet have full scientific evidence about the effects of vaccination or recovery from the virus. but we can't wait for all these questions to be answered to start taking action. we have to act now, by adopting a text that is sufficiently flexible to take these developments into account once more scientific knowledge becomes available. for this reason, the commission proposes to keep separate, for the time being, the digital green certificate the tool that we aim to establish with this regulation and its possible uses. we should not get stuck on arguments about whether or not to lift restrictions for the holders of such certificates. we will not be able to solve them at this point in time. in particular, new variants of concern are raising significant uncertainty. the difficult discussion on the use of the certificate has the potential to prevent us from moving forward in a pragmatic way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the use of certificates. if member states wish to use the certificates for other purposes, they would need a legal basis at national level, in national law, which will have to be fully compliant with the general data protection regulation, and would need to prove that such use is necessary and proportionate, in consultation with their national data protection authorities. the commission would advise against prohibiting the use of the digital green certificate on such a national legal basis. otherwise, the member states that want to use the certificates domestically would be likely to create a separate national system. the result would be a worrying fragmentation in the european union. let me now make a couple of points on the accessibility and affordability of covid-19 tests. the digital green certificate will be free of charge, and we share the view that testing should be affordable for all citizens. but issues related to the reimbursement of medical costs, such as those for covid-19 tests, fall within the competence of the member states. this is a complex field, with many different public and private actors involved. more fundamentally, the impact on the availability of tests would have to be carefully considered, given that we are still fighting the pandemic. for its part, the commission has mobilised eur 100 million to purchase over 20 million rapid antigen tests, which have been delivered to the member states. the option to purchase an additional 400 million tests has been secured through our joint procurement mechanism. member states have placed orders for 40 million tests, and are of course encouraged to purchase more if there is a need. such joint procedures allow us to secure better conditions, including prices, for individual member states. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that we will not be back to normal this summer. to contain the virus, some measures will have to be maintained, but as of the coming summer and to help citizens travel safely in europe again, we need reliable and interoperable documents: we need the digital green certificate. i therefore urge you to act swiftly in the interests of european citizens and the internal market. the commission is ready to work tirelessly to support the search for a compromise acceptable to the co-legislators, and to do so as quickly as possible. i thank you for your attention and i am of course glad to hear your questions and comments, which we will certainly try to answer during the trilogue.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner reynders, mrs zacarias, for a long time now, the health emergency declared by the world health organisation has been shaking the globe and, consequently, the european union its 27 member states and its 450 million citizens with unprecedented virulence. clearly, the changes we have seen have certainly not been for the better. no, they have been put to the test of the constitutional structures of the member states and of the law of the european union itself. many member states have adopted emergency measures whose coherence with their constitutional architectures has been highly controversial, but in the european union we have seen an unprecedented onslaught on the most precious asset of european integration, which is schengen. schengen is the free movement of persons, a fundamental right of european citizenship, the most cherished by far in the european experience. we have said here in this european parliament that as a result of emergency measures unilaterally imposed by the member states, often in contradiction with european law - with the schengen code, which is a law, which is a regulation binding on the member states - schengen has been at risk as never before. we have repeatedly urged the commission to take the initiative to ensure an orderly restoration of free movement, convinced as we are that without free movement there is no european union. furthermore, the argument is reinforced, because, without free circulation, there will be no economic or social recovery after the devastation caused by the covid-19 pandemic, which has hit those economies very hard, which are very dependent on connectivity, which rests on the free circulation of people, but not only those in which tourism has a superlative weight in its gross domestic product, but to the set of open economies. that is why the commission has taken this initiative to relaunch schengen and free movement, and commission president ursula von der leyen is calling for the urgency procedure. the alleged legal basis is free movement, a fundamental right. the committee responsible is therefore the one i have the honour of chairing, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and i am also grateful for the honour of being the rapporteur, accompanied by an excellent negotiating team with the spokesmen of each of the parliamentary groups. we have worked quickly because we have supported the urgency procedure, and we have supported not only the urgency procedure but also the objective: to try to help, to help restore free movement. but it will not surprise anyone that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has placed emphasis on fundamental rights, on the principles of necessity and proportionality which govern the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and its application in the member states. this means that the data entered in the certificate must be the minimum necessary to produce its effect, which is the certification of the authenticity, integrity and validity of the data identifying the holder for the purpose of free movement at the internal borders of the member states, which is good news for cross-border workers, for temporary workers, but also for transport operators and for those who want to revive tourism in the european union, as we discussed yesterday in the european parliament. we also demand other conditions which are consistent with our concern for the fundamental rights of confidentiality and privacy, enshrined as fundamental rights in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this means that the data cannot be stored by any european central database, but only by the health authority issuing the certificate, which must be automatically delivered to the holder in the case of vaccines and in the case of pcr tests. furthermore, such data may not be used for any other purpose limitation of the purpose, which is to re-guarantee free movement and therefore may not be used internally by the member states either to go to a restaurant, to go to a theatre or to go to public spaces. the effect is to encourage the free movement of persons. we also ensure that there is adequate accessibility for people with disabilities, consistent with the directive we adopted in 2019 and that allows in a homogeneous way that those certificates, whether in paper or digital form, are also accessible to people with disabilities. we are concerned that the instrument is temporarily limited to one year and that the commission should regularly, periodically, three months before the expiry of the year of validity, inform the european parliament of its performance, because we are aware that there is an epidemiological dimension to which this parliament cannot respond, because it is the responsibility of science and pharmacology, where appropriate. but this parliament can establish the legal conditions under which we can assess the performance of this instrument over its one-year period of operation. we also want the whole legal framework for this certification to put an end to the chaotic situation we are in, the accumulation of contradictory and discriminatory measures, so that the effect is a uniform, uniform certificate valid in all the member states, and thus an end to this cacophony of measures which hold back so many people from taking the initiative, from returning to free movement, for fear of being exposed to additional restrictive measures in addition to the certificate. i would therefore like to stress two more points and conclude, madam president: firstly, the certificate must be free of charge and so must the tests, because tests are prohibited in some member states and a test which is compulsory cannot be priced prohibitively and discriminatory; and secondly, the states must not impose additional restrictive measures, the certificate must be sufficient to stimulate free movement. we have run the half-distance to the commission and to the council. we can only hope that, in the interinstitutional negotiation and tripartite dialogue phase, the council will go the middle way towards the european parliament and that we will be able to reach an understanding or an agreement so that the certificate will come into force in june, as the commission has proposed under the urgency procedure.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we’ve all been living through restrictions, lockdowns and curfews for over a year now, and i think we can simply say we’re quite fed up with all of this. with the vaccination campaign in europe gaining pace, it is also now important to show perspective. today we show just how important this is for us by adopting this proposal – our proposal – in this urgent procedure without compromising on quality because – and i’m sure the commissioner doesn’t mind me saying – we make his proposal even better. firstly, because now the certificate will actually mean something. it will not just be another app or a piece of paper adding bureaucracy, but it will really help citizens enjoy their right of free movement and it will limit restrictions. it will make life easier. secondly, the certificate can be trusted. only vaccinations approved by the european medicines agency (ema) or the who will be covered, so that all member states and all citizens can trust in the reliability and the safety of the vaccines. we really emphasise this important role of ema, and of course all vaccine producers are invited to submit to this procedure. thirdly, this certificate now ensures full equality and it avoids discrimination between those who have been vaccinated and those who have not, or will not, be vaccinated by also including a test or a recovery certificate and by making sure that testing in connection with the certificate is always free of charge. lastly, words matter. the certificate was never green, it was only partly digital, and i haven’t met a single eu citizen that understood why it was called a digital green certificate. ‘eu covid—19 certificate’ is clearer, it’s better, and it also underlines one important aspect, namely that this is a european solution. it’s there precisely to avoid fragmentation and chaos with 27 national systems. so let me conclude. we need this european solution and we need it fast. i’m also looking at the council here. let’s get this legislation done, let’s get the certificate up and running by the summer and let’s offer that perspective to our citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. a month ago we were asked to work on green certificates to facilitate freedom of movement. and just to be clear, we did it. it would have been good if the commission, which had put forward the urgent request, had also answered our questions at an urgent pace. the certificates are a tool in this pandemic. and that's why we're talking very clearly about covid-19 certificates and demanding a clear 12-month expiration clause. i would have liked to have had this clear wording when mentioning possible national certificates. freedom of movement now? we're still in the middle of a pandemic, there are different variants, and yes, the vaccination campaign seems to be picking up speed, but we're still a long way from herd immunity. the return to full freedom of movement must therefore be achieved with restraint and on the basis of scientific knowledge. however, we must restore freedom of movement, because restrictions have a massive impact on many people. i am thinking of commuters who cross borders, but also of families in border regions. the treaties allow us - commissioner reynders has mentioned it - only limited powers. and that is why the member states are now called upon to do so. after more than a year, are they finally able to find a coordinated common approach to travel restrictions or their lifting, or will there be just a new patchwork of problems? and it would be good to find a common solution, because the certificates could become the starting point for a genuine european solution, beyond the freedom of travel for vaccinated, tested or recovered persons, which would still be centred on vaccinating all those who want to be vaccinated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. make a real contribution to the fight against the pandemic and to freedom of movement.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, parliament has worked, and it has worked fast, and i’m proud to say that this parliament once again has taken its responsibility to serve the citizens. i would also like to thank my colleagues from the other groups because i really felt the way in which we were united in this goal is impressive. i think we should remember that this is not just about people who want to go on holidays, but this is also about people who work across borders, people who live in border areas, people who have their jobs, their school, their family across borders, and they have been severely restricted in their freedom. let’s also not forget that freedom of movement is a right. it is not a privilege and people should not have to somehow pay for it or make a sacrifice in order to exercise that right and to be able to travel across this impossible chaotic patchwork of national barriers that has been left by the member state measures. now, trust in the certificate is key for take—up, therefore the temporary nature, the sunset clause, data protection clauses, clauses that prevent function creep, further use of data, are essential. the fact that the three certificates are equivalent and that there is equal treatment for citizens is key and, of course, trust also because only vaccines approved by the european medicines agency (ema) will be recognised. but i would like to come to the point that’s probably going to be a big sticking point between the council and parliament, and that is the additional national restrictions. parliament is against that because what is the point in having a common european scheme if then member states can, whenever they feel like it, ignore the certificate and impose additional restrictions? and i really would like to ask the council, just for once, ask yourself what it is the citizen wants. do you really think the citizens are waiting for a debate about subsidiarity now and national competences? citizens want their rights, they want their freedom, they want to travel. so, i think people need certainty, they need predictability, because otherwise the certificate will be of no interest to them. finally, on the costs: parliament calls for free tests for the purpose of obtaining the certificate otherwise there is no equality. we also call for free tests for certain groups. and finally, commissioner, i do not find the argument that the commission has no powers, i mean, the commission has all the powers in the internal market. tests which are being sold on a commercial basis in an open market can be regulated. commissioner, be a bit creative.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to clear the air of any doubt about this certificate, starting with the fact that it does not require vaccination, it is not a passport, it is not obligatory to use it, it does not restrict anyone's movements, on the contrary, it facilitates them. it is a tool which will serve to harmonize the rules of travel in the union in order to make it possible to revive tourism without the uncertainties experienced today by travellers, mainly due to the current situation at the borders, with rules that change every week and from one state to another and which have created inconvenience for passengers who have, for example, been denied boarding for an untranslated stamp. it's just a certificate for those who want to travel that can prove alternatively that they've tested negative for covid, that they're cured or that they've been vaccinated. today, too, a negative stamp is required for travel. nothing new or unusual. the covid certificate introduces additional possibilities, which are denied today by the measures in force for those who have recovered and for those who have decided to be vaccinated. the document we are voting on in the run-up to the negotiations with the council is an improvement on the commission's proposal. the work we have done in the committee in recent weeks with concrete proposals to protect citizens has led us to strengthen the protection of personal data, to call on the member states to make stamps free and available everywhere, starting from airports and stations, to avoid discrimination linked to the cost of stamps or the area of residence, and to insert a certain expiry date for the validity of the certificate itself. in addition to the health needs, we cannot forget a sector, that of transport and tourism, which represents 10% of european gdp and provides jobs and income for many families, especially in southern europe. therefore, i believe that in this phase of uncertainty linked to the pandemic, it is essential to abandon ideological positions and work for concrete solutions, respecting the rights and choices of everyone, to standardize travel rules in preparation for the summer season, also avoiding bilateral agreements between states, and to accelerate economic recovery. the covid certificate, while not perfect, though superfluous for some, only goes in this direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in times of peace it would be folly to discuss this certificate. unfortunately, these are not times of peace and the health emergency forces us to devise solutions to keep the coronavirus containment, personal freedoms and the economic recovery of our nations together. tourism is perhaps the economic sector most affected by the pandemic. not only that, but above all that, is why we need a tool to facilitate the free movement of people. we cannot allow unfair forms of tourist dumping between one state and another, such as bilateral agreements; we cannot allow the disastrous delay in the european union's vaccine campaign to become a competitive disadvantage to countries that are further along in the vaccination pipeline, like israel, the united states or britain, the britain that many here say would go to hell after brexit. at the same time, we cannot force our citizens to get vaccinated if they want to travel. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. all you need to do is prove that you have tested negative for covid in the last three days or that you have recovered from the disease. what remains to be supported in parliament's proposal is the free covid tests, so as not to incur further discrimination between those who can afford them and those who cannot, but above all, for our group, for the ecr, what needs to be changed is the name: from "digital green certificate", which falsely and instrumentally resembles environmental protection, to "eu covid-19 certificate". it 's not just a symbolic fact: it's a strong and clear message that this certificate should not be abused and that, when the pandemic is over, we don't want to hear about it anymore. it will be only the bad memory of a horrible historical period.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after more than a year of closures, confinements and restrictions, the citizens of europe must go back to living. and the password has to be "start over". in this sense, a measure such as the covid-19 certificate is not the solution to all problems, but it can facilitate travel. citizens must be able to move freely again in preparation for the coming summer season, which we cannot afford to lose. to lose it would be to condemn to death sectors already devastated, such as trade, transport or tourism. so safe takeoff and safe travel. the covid-19 certificate must be an extraordinary and temporary instrument, linked only to the emergency of the pandemic, and must not create discrimination between citizens of category a and category b: those who do not want to be vaccinated will still be able to circulate simply by being buffered. i would like to remind you, however, that no certificate is valid without a change of pace in the eu's vaccination campaign, which must be strengthened and accelerated. between delays, uncertainties and communication, to say the least, ambiguous, the european union remains the taillight for the vaccinated population, with only 25%. in conclusion, the certificate must be an extraordinary measure within a wider strategy for the revival of social and economic life. the covid-19 certificate should in no way imply the obligation to vaccinate.
in writing. after more than a year of restrictions and limitations on travel in europe, the covid certificate represents a chance for european citizens to travel within europe again. it is not a vaccine passport, it does not impose any vaccination obligation, but it is a possibility to move between countries again. the certificate will not be required to enter a bar, a gym or a cinema, but only to move between eu countries. we are in fact strongly opposed to any form of compulsory vaccination or passport: everyone's freedom comes first. as an alternative to the vaccine, the person will be able to demonstrate tampon-negative or recovery from covid. to this end, we have insisted on free samples, in a way that does not create discrimination. at the same time, we must give hope to the tourism sector, which in italy represents a good share of the national gdp and has suffered too much in this year and a half of the pandemic: the resumption of tourism this summer can truly represent the resumption of the whole of italy, ending a season of closures and sacrifices.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, alexei navalny is unjustly detained in russian prisons and subjected to constant sleep deprivation. since being incarcerated, he has lost eight pounds and despite nerve agent poisoning last august, he is not allowed to receive medical visits or treatment. despite navalny's break with his hunger strike, he is still in detention. the european union knows that the challenge to the survival of our model of democracy lies in its relationship with moscow. we cannot allow heads of state in our neighbourhood to silence political opposition by violating their natural, civil and political rights. a hundred thousand soldiers were deployed to the gates of ukraine from moscow and this was a strong signal to the whole west. but, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the proclamations of asylum and the solidarity expressed in words, there is no credible european intervention today. while navalny is in prison, the tie of geopolitical interests with moscow is growing. in these very hours, for example, the work on the nord stream 2 gas pipeline continues to divide europe and to weaken its security and energy independence, rendering sanctions against russia practically useless and giving a strong signal of weakness. if europe really wants to defend human rights and democracy everywhere in the world, it must do so in a firm and equal way. let's not be indifferent to what's happening to alexei navalny. human life and freedom of thought are not negotiable values.
madam president, mr high representative, with all due respect, but let me say that you have a problem with russia, which has to do with one word: 'credibility'. you are pressing the russian government on behalf of the european union to respect navalny's human rights and to have him treated by a doctor of his confidence, but i am afraid that the russian government must be thinking: 'we don't need to pay much attention to borrell, because he is actually one of our own. it is already fine with spain having political prisoners; it does not care what the belgian and german judges and a united nations working group on arbitrary detention say about it. you met with serbia recently to push for the recognition of kosovo, but russia - your geopolitical godfather - must be thinking: "we don't need to pay much attention to borrell, because he's actually one of ours. it is also in favour of spain not recognising kosovo, lest it open the door to the right of self-determination for catalonia. on kosovo, they must think: "surely borrell is closer to spain than to the vast majority of countries in the european union, which have recognized him". with attitudes like yours, i think the european union is in a very bad way of preventing the authoritarian drift of such illiberal democracies as russia. mr. high representative, with all due respect, we have a serious problem.
madam president, since the russian intervention in georgia in 2008, we have been addressing relations with russia in this house in a negative tone. the reality is that the eu's relations with putin's russia are at a very low point, as the high representative rightly said. putin's foreign policy is an anachronistic one of power and zones of influence, which rejects the rules-based international order and multilateralism that the european union supports. deep down, there seems to be a nostalgia for the bipolar order of the past. the growing authoritarianism on the domestic plane, visible in the unacceptable treatment inflicted on navalni and his followers, has its correlate on the external plane. the tension in recent weeks with ukraine, created by military maneuvers, was an act of intimidation and also a clear message to the government in kiev and the international community, including the biden administration, of russia's rejection of the ukrainian government's new moves to move closer to nato. this seems to me to be one of the "red lines" evoked by putin in his address to the nation last week. the czech republic's action is also a matter of serious concern. however, russia is a permanent member of the security council, a nuclear power, a neighbour of the union and an important energy and economic partner for many of its members. in this context it is impossible to act in the world as if russia does not exist. but it seems logical that we should try not to increase our dependence on this country, at least as long as putin maintains a line of confrontation with the european union, its principles and its interests. i also think that, as has been said here, the member states must act as unitedly as possible. the high representative and the council therefore have a lot of work ahead of them.
mr president, we must not be blind to what is happening in russia. navalny has been held in a holding cell, russian agents' bombings in the czech republic have now been exposed, and russian soldiers have been spotted at the ukrainian border. the eu must be resolute and react swiftly to violations of human rights and international rules of the game. russia is deliberately breaking the eu's front, as evidenced by the questionable reception of foreign minister borrell in moscow. the eu must remain united and aligned with the united kingdom and the united states, even when we decide on sanctions. when a crisis is on, we need to strengthen the dialogue. the future russian chairmanship of the arctic council could provide opportunities for cooperation. joint solutions are needed in the areas of climate and environmental issues, nuclear safety and public health. the eu must deliver on its promises and be a geopolitical player in the arctic as well.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. russia has been destabilising its neighbours for years, moving to occupy their territories, as in georgia and ukraine, trying to kill its own citizens with chemical weapons, and now, as we have learned, its services are organizing terrorist attacks on the territory of the countries of the union, as in the case of the czech republic. the union's reaction to this flagrant violation of international law by russia is usually to ban those responsible from entering the union and to block their assets in european banks. this kind of sanctions makes no impression on russia. the only thing that the leaders of this country can understand is a serious blow to their pockets, and that is to stop feeding the beast by buying more natural gas and oil in this country. germany doesn't want to understand this and that's why they continue to build nord stream 2, which will allow for a significant increase in gas sales to western europe and another tens of billions of dollars in revenues to the russian budget, which can be allocated to armaments. my country, poland, is behaving differently, as it will abandon the purchase of some ten billion cubic metres of gas from russia as early as next year. we're also going to limit our oil purchases, which means that russia is going to lose at least a few billion dollars in oil revenues. i hope that you will implement the text of the resolution that has been adopted.
president, vladimir putin has worked for a long time with the russian secret services kgb and fsb. he paid close attention and proved to be a very diligent student, for he is still testing and challenging the west as he did in the days of the cold war. putin knows the west is divided, and he's taking full advantage of that. he's building a gas pipeline to the west and the european heads of government are stinking in it. yes, we want that cheap gas! the construction of nord stream 2 is about the biggest geopolitical blunder ever. in the school classes of the kgb and the fsb, putin would have received an additional order of lenin for this. meanwhile, navalny is dying, and i pray that he may be filled with the justice he hungers and thirsts for. and the mh17 trial is also dragging on, a trial that the russians say is one big lie. that's another old lesson from the kgb and fsb schools. there is only one pravda, and that is the russian pravda. president. - i am very tired of the european division over russia. i am very tired of these european leaders who are especially good at making tear-jerking statements. it's got to be different. standing up for justice and human rights means sanctioning putin and his clique.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic story of alexei navalny has many aspects to be clarified and, as has already been said, it is a terrible story: we therefore strongly urge his release. but we must also say that this is not an isolated incident. putin's russia has been on the road to authoritarian revolution for years. political activists, journalists, people who are guilty of being homosexual: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. we condemn them rightly, but i repeat it once again in this house: we must say that we are not all the same. while one part of parliament is fighting for respect for democratic values and human rights, another part has built dangerous relations with putin. i am thinking of matteo salvini's league, the ambiguous relations with putin's entourage, or the many things that need to be clarified that the far right in france, germany and austria have to say about this. we condemn putin and stand in solidarity with the victims of his actions, but we must also defend ourselves more and more against his interference.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course the council has my full support and that of my political party, because what china is doing in the xinjiang region is unacceptable and unfortunately it is not the only violation of human rights or of peaceful coexistence in a complex area of the world that we have seen in recent years. but we should not be surprised by a chinese reaction which was totally inappropriate and exaggerated, just as i think it was inappropriate for the european commission to conclude negotiations with its chinese counterpart between christmas and new year's day, in a situation which was already tense on many other issues, and, after the sanctions, first our own and then the chinese ones, even to go to berlin to reassure beijing of the success of a trade negotiation which will have to be seen in the coming months with a vote, which i hope will be negative, by this parliament. but we are not just talking about a naive west here, but a west which is turning the other way in relation to a situation which i also denounced in the committee on international trade. australia has a free trade agreement with china: australia has dared to say: "we would like an international investigation into what happened in wuhan". well, they've suffered an incredible trade crackdown. so we're going to do a trade deal because we think that relations will be better, because we think that china will commit to respecting human rights? i 'm very pessimistic . the provocations in taiwan, the repression in hong kong. i think these are both signs of china's strength and danger, but they also express a weakness. i'm finished. let 's remember: of course, no one wants a front against china; we are dependent on their economy, but they are also dependent on exports to europe. let us always remember that too.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 50 years of war, more than 200 000 victims, five years of peace that have saved many lives. this fifth anniversary of the peace agreement is an important signal for colombia and for the world. the role of the union and its member states in the peace process has been crucial, also thanks to the so-called peace workshops which have helped to rebuild the economic and social development of colombia, a country which has been worn down by years of violence, conflict and high inequalities, but which has been able to rise again thanks to the strength of its people. the same people who in the years of guerrilla warfare fled to neighboring ecuador and venezuela and who now find themselves in colombia welcoming venezuelans fleeing the maduro regime. two thousand kilometres of border between colombia and venezuela, which in the last month have been the scene of new clashes and millions of displaced people continuing to seek protection. farc dissidents, opposed to the peace agreement, have found maduro's complicity, thus reopening the violence and wounds of a not too distant past. commissioner, the union cannot allow a dictator to aggravate a humanitarian crisis and reignite war. we must stop this threat. the lives of colombian and venezuelan citizens are at stake, but so is the peace that must be preserved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than four years after the peace process was launched, only 25% of the provisions have been implemented: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, corruption and money laundering. the aggressiveness and ruthlessness of social leaders, farmers, indigenous people, community workers, women activists, environmentalists, shows that the transition has a long way to go. the spaces left empty by the farc in the armed struggle scene are being invaded by the actors of the illegal economy. the implementation of the agreement and transitional justice is still seriously hampered by drug trafficking, historical and structural inequalities, land and resource extraction issues. our institutions have a duty to continue dialogue with the colombian authorities, whose task it is to defend human rights and the rule of law, by giving priority to the presence of civil institutions rather than to militarization, and by clearly demonstrating our common political commitment to peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, safety, environmental sustainability: the need to protect the environment and the environment. india is investing heavily in renewable energy. these are just some of the important issues to be discussed at a summit in porto which comes at an important time. it comes at an important time because there are tensions in the indo-pacific area. take india, we talked a lot about what's going on inside the country, which is a country that also has bulky neighbors. chinese provocations are very strong. pakistan, we recall, had politicians who, driven by a certain extremist religious vision, vehemently attacked france for protecting a certain system of values. in short, it is important to establish relations with india that are lasting and that see a shared set of values that are obviously relative, but that also take into account the enormous differences. i have seen in some of the criticisms that have been made in recent days an instrumental attitude and obviously we must all be in solidarity with a country that is currently experiencing a peak of the pandemic.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and the council for reaching a good agreement. of course, it is not the best possible agreement, especially as regards the protection of disabled travellers, but at least we have taken a first step towards truly inclusive mobility. there are still some important steps to be taken to ensure real equality of access to rail travel. we 've reduced the notice to 24 hours for special assistance: this is still too much. the big stations, the critical nodes should have immediate assistance. in italy it is already happening, but this must be possible everywhere. in addition, some member states have pressed for their right to postpone this provision until june 2026 and we can no longer grant transitional periods except for purely technical reasons. we must ensure that disability rights are recognised also in international travel, some of which takes place outside the european union. there is no specific training for staff and we have missed a good opportunity to extend these rights to urban and suburban transport. i want to reiterate: this is and must remain the first step in providing equal access to transport for people with disabilities. but we must not stop there.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to be voting on this second regulation because we are seeing an improvement in the protection of the rights of travellers and disabled people. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the attention paid to the rights of disabled people is very important, and is of great interest to my staff and my political party. i would like to point out that disability is not only the obvious disability of people with reduced mobility but also extends to blind and deaf people. however, services for the latter are often still insufficient. however, with simple integration of structures, very important and tangible results could be achieved. for example, totems could be installed connected to a sign language interpreter to provide information to the deaf in a way that they can understand. public and private railway companies and others need to be made aware of this issue, which affects over 100 million people with hearing difficulties in europe. in this way we will also begin to give full meaning to the european strategy on the rights of disabled people, including in the category not only those with motor problems but also those with sensory disadvantages. let's take this last step in the name of equality and inclusion for all citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dante alighieri said that there are three things left of paradise: the stars and the flowers and the children. the establishment of a european child guarantee to protect children means, yes, free access to healthcare, adequate nutrition and education today in a digital world, without discriminating against children with special needs living in poverty and marginalised areas, or children with disabilities who are victims of school segregation, but it also means guaranteeing the right to safe navigation to make the online experience safe. i have asked the european commission to take immediate action to put an end to the violent challenges promoted on social media and the cause of many suicides among teenagers. the right to be free from violence through the creation of integrated protection systems and finally the right to justice for minors, by strengthening judicial actions alternative to detention and mediation in civil cases. let 's not waste time . children have a right to more than just heaven.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the recommendations in the text made by the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mrs monika hohlmeier, whom i thank very much for all the work she has done, including in protecting the financial interests of the union. we know that the fight against fraud is a very important issue in the next multiannual framework. progress has been made with appropriations for new computer tools, training and also with the system for handling irregularities, which facilitates the obligation for member states to report shortcomings. but fraud is often carried out by criminal organizations, including mafia groups, which operate in all the european countries. and here i appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen: the fight against fraud and crime must be a priority for this parliament and the commission, because those who commit fraud are stealing money from all european citizens. a more effective anti-fraud programme makes europe more credible to its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year fraud and irregularities are discovered within the european union. this is why the development of an anti-fraud plan is essential and the work of olaf even more so. the commission has also recently demonstrated its readiness to act during a closed hearing in the committee on budgetary control by updating us on the state of play of the investigations into the sale of non-standard masks and the wave of counterfeit vaccines being marketed by organised crime. but if the ultimate objective of anti-fraud plans is to protect the financial interests of the european union, a legitimate doubt could creep in on european citizens. the united states and britain seemed to be out of control until christmas, but a few months later, thanks to a proper vaccine plan, their economies started growing again. the european union has spent months harnessing its management and planning capabilities in the fight against covid, culminating as we have seen in the vaccine chaos for which no one seems to have taken responsibility. as businesses close and many families struggle to make ends meet, someone should be holding european citizens accountable for the mistakes made.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a pakistani christian couple sentenced to death for blasphemy in 2014. - what for? for allegedly sending messages with insults to muhammad. for seven years, they've been in prison, separated from each other, away from their families, with him sick and forced to go without care. a huge shame, a decision that is horrifying. that is why we strongly demand their immediate release. for the prime minister of pakistan, the insults to the prophet muhammad must be considered in the context of holocaust denial. does that sound normal to you? asia bibi, the christian who spent eight years in pakistani prisons, called the blasphemy law a sword that persecutes christians. it is a rule that restricts religious freedom, freedom of opinion and expression. pakistan is a country where being a christian is very often a death sentence. intolerance towards religious minorities is increasing day by day. churches are continually burned, christians are persecuted, and every year a thousand girls belonging to religious minorities are enslaved and forced to convert to islam after being raped and abused and then forced into non-consensual marriages. i am ashamed of a europe that shuts its eyes. there is too much talk about alleged islamophobia and too little about the tragedy of christians in islamic countries. it's no longer acceptable to be silent.
mr. chairman, please! the situation of christians, hindus and other religious minorities in pakistan, their lives and the way they are treated, has been very worrying in recent years. 2020 saw the largest increase in cases brought to court on blasphemy charges since 1987. christians and other religious minorities in pakistan are intimidated, denied the opportunity to practice their religion, and subjected to false accusations and then to years of trial. just as asia bibi waited for years to be tried and acquitted in an impartial trial, a christian couple, shafqat emmanuel and shagufta kausar, are now serving their eighth year in prison on a death sentence for blasphemy. today we must condemn very clearly the human rights violations in pakistan, call on pakistan to release immediately and ensure the safety of the unlawfully detained and innocent citizens, and above all to thoroughly review the law that allows the death penalty for blasphemy. that is the duty of all of us and that is what i am calling for in this house today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two christian couples, shagufta and shafqat, who are also illiterate, have been sentenced to death for sending a text message. a few days ago two christian nurses were accused of blasphemy for removing a sticker containing a quote from the koran from their locker at the faisalabad hospital. i could cite many more such cases: yet it is muslims who are the majority of those imprisoned, sometimes for life, for violating pakistan's blasphemy law. now, i have great respect for this country, its people, its culture, for a government that, despite its historical rivalry, is helping india that is badly hit by covid-19. but as chairman of the delegation for relations with south asia, i call for a review of this law, so that it is not used as a tool for religious intolerance, fanaticism, the violation of human rights.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, digital technologies have never been more exposed to the potential of the pandemic than they are today, but they have also revealed their many pitfalls. i am not just referring to cyberbullying, to gender-based violence online, with its dramatic consequences both psychologically and socially. but i'm also talking about online scams, threats to digital security and businesses and public institutions for geopolitical or profit-making purposes, that seriously jeopardize our economy, our services, our digital identities and our sensitive data. these phenomena during lockdown have seen an exponential increase worldwide. in italy alone, online fraud, data theft, and server hijacking in companies increased by 246% in 2020, reaching a peak of 100,000 units, causing enormous damage to the economy already brought to its knees by the health emergency. the most affected regions are also the most dynamic, such as lombardy, which registers an average of 7 cybercrimes per day. the use of smart working, online commerce, internet services and apps has facilitated the criminal activities of hackers to the detriment of consumers and businesses, especially smaller ones, which are more vulnerable precisely because of the lack of know-how and resources needed to invest in cybersecurity. according to the politecnico di milano, 59 percent of companies fear being victims of cyberattacks, and one in four pay a ransom when they receive one. it is estimated that a cyber attack on an sme costs on average eur 120 000. in the dramatic phase we are going through, such an event could really be the final blow to a great many activities. small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of the italian and european economies. they are fundamental and crucial to recovery and it is our duty to protect them from these pitfalls. that is why we will wholeheartedly support this european regulation, which aims to create a new digital single market that will defend, at supranational level, economic interests and above all the fundamental rights of citizens.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to pursue programmes to protect nature, biodiversity and the environment, but at the same time i think it is important to try to develop these aims without being subservient to ideology. the european union has made a political choice: has chosen to allocate at least 30% of its own union spending to climate action. so, given the amount of eu spending, 30%, at a time of pandemic and economic crisis, you think it should be spent on climate. important, but not quite the priority. the life programme, which we are discussing today, is likely to be yet another instrument for monitoring public expenditure in the member states. in short, yet another tie, no matter how tight, to the states. right now, by the way! in addition, in order to obtain european funds, the various countries will also be forced to spend them on projects that are good for themselves or, in any case, perhaps not really suitable for those territories. of course, as i said, we have a positive attitude towards conservation actions: but this program focuses too much on the climate part, distorting the environmental goals for which it was originally designed. this is not surprising, since since the green deal the commission has worked more on slogans than on concrete environmental and social policy choices. then you have financing linked to new green taxes, things that are then passed on to consumers. we believe that in order to reduce pollution, to promote the transition and to create more jobs, the union's policies should focus on industrial and technological development in the service of employment and the quality of the environment. so, here's our suggestion. we know we're probably going to be unheard, but we're going to keep pushing our ideas.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is another wasted opportunity. climate leadership is not achieved by talk or by documents that are far from reality, and after years of fantasizing about a climate-leading european union, we are now reaching the perfect suicide, handing the future of energy technology to china. pay attention to what china's global market share is: the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. electric cars: hearing, hearing 60%. so it is one thing to have a plurality of supplier countries at your disposal, but it is quite another to be stuck in a dead end and rely on a single monopolist. with one difference: china does not accept that decarbonisation roadmaps are shared. in fact, beijing has set climate neutrality for 2060 with the technology available, and brussels for 2050 without the technology. it is curious, or it would be comical, if it were not the industrial world or the european small and medium-sized enterprises that were paying. with respect to hydrogen, green hydrogen is certainly an opportunity, it's a shared goal, but it's not a ready technology at the moment. my group has tabled amendments to give a role to hydrogen produced with other low-carbon technologies; the amendments have been rejected. i wonder: but what should countries that do not have a sufficient share of renewables do? so it's not enough to just issue regulations and directives, terms like "ecological transition" or "resilience". yes, this is a fashion statement, but it certainly does not solve the environmental and energy challenges and, above all, the problems of the workers.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on the just transition fund, a high-profile measure which will actually finance projects and works which could have been financed through the regional development fund anyway. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the answer to the question of who is to gain from this is that the country allocation table is a disgrace to many of us, as it shows that two countries, germany and poland, will receive almost a third of the total available funds. and if romania and the czech republic are added to these, four countries will receive more than half of the total allocation. doesn't seem like fair treatment for the other 23. but above all, despite the stated aim of providing support for the energy transition without leaving anyone behind, it was decided to exclude from the fund companies in difficulty, such as ilva of taranto, the main steelworks in europe, which could have benefited from european funding to convert production to green standards, protecting the jobs of its over 8 000 employees. in addition, any possibility of financing investments in natural gas, although initially recognised as eligible as a tool and bridge infrastructure to reduce emissions and meet the deadlines set in the transition pathway, has been totally excluded. in short, those who have been most diligent in switching back to renewable sources will get a few pennies, while those who have kept the coal mines open to date will get billions of euros. there are many reasons why we are not satisfied with the way this fund has been defined. but we are a serious and responsible government and, in order not to deny our companies financial support which may also reach italy in small part, we will not oppose it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i was the shadow rapporteur for the id group on this matter for the agri committee. we believe that the just transition fund is a tool which, if used intelligently, can bring serious benefits to europe. but we note that the distribution of funding from the just transition fund is unfair, because it favours countries which have not yet taken the climate change issue seriously and have continued to produce coal and carbon, to the detriment of the more virtuous countries. we therefore believe that it will penalize those who, like italy, have made efforts to achieve the energy mix, meeting the objectives and who, unfortunately, will only have a marginal part of these sums. the introduction of the green reward mechanism also disadvantages italy and rewards those who have been negligent over the years. a less idealistic and more pragmatic approach to the environment is needed, as all the alternatives to achieving the objectives gradually and progressively need to be considered.
in writing. the just transition fund, designed to help eu countries cope with the social and economic impact of the transition to a zero-emission economy and the switch to cleaner technologies, should certainly be supported. in this process, however, the italian government has identified two areas, taranto and sulcis-iglesiente, which are among the most affected by the economic and social effects of the transition due to job losses linked to the production of fossil fuels and the transformation of industrial plants with higher greenhouse gas intensity. there is no doubt about the importance, at european rather than national level, of the steel industry located in those areas. however, the previous italian government did not take into account the willingness of the eu commission (see reply of 26.3.2020 to question p-001211/2020) to assess the inclusion of the industrial area of brindisi in the plan. it meets the same criteria and requirements as those laid down by the commission for participation in the investments of the just transition fund, namely the amount of co2 emitted by the industrial sector, the use of fossil fuels and the impact of the energy transition on land use. the brindisi area, however, deserves at least to be considered an eligible area, if only to be admitted to a subsequent financing phase.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has shown us how essential crossborder and seasonal workers are to guaranteeing the free movement of goods and services, which is a well-established part of the internal market. on the contrary, the free movement of workers still remains a utopia, because of a regulatory framework which, for decades, has remained a list of good intentions. as the five star movement we are pleased with this report and have helped to strengthen it with our amendments, because it establishes full portability and traceability of rights to combat social and wage dumping which fuels unfair competition. we must therefore extend the rules for the protection of workers by adopting as soon as possible key directives such as those on social security systems and the minimum wage, but we must also give the european labour authority real powers of inspection and control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the development of the internal market. the new europe can only be born from a concrete revival of the rights to mobility and we will be the first to make that happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 10% of the world's population, the richest part of the planet, is responsible for more than half, 52%, of global emissions. developing countries are the most exposed, and women are the people who pay the highest social costs: drought, flooding, landslides and loss of vital natural resources are seriously undermining the development prospects of fragile and low-income countries. the european union must take responsibility, including by developing a comprehensive strategy on the impact of the climate crisis, a crisis that must be responded to with increased financial support. strengthening and consistent with poverty eradication goals is also an acknowledgement that displacement and migration are part of the problem: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to help the refugees, and i am pleased to say that the commission is working on this.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, thank you for this opportunity to discuss this important issue. the debate is very timely, as was said by the author himself, in view of the decision of the un general assembly to convene a high-level meeting on hiv and aids in june. as the world tackles the covid pandemic, the devastating aids global pandemic continues. while the world focuses on overcoming the direct impact of covid and laying the ground for recovery, the secondary health impacts, the disruptions to essential health services, including with respect to hiv, hepatitis, tuberculosis and malaria, are deeply concerning. we all know that hiv is fuelled by inequalities and that it disproportionately affects vulnerable and marginalised populations. worsening inequalities increase the spread of hiv as do armed conflicts and natural disasters. we need to work collectively to ensure that our response to the covid pandemic tackles these inequalities, preserve the gains achieved during the last decade and secures access for key populations to the essential services. this is why the commission welcomes the new global aids strategy for 2021-2026, sharing many of its priorities, not least the focus on tackling inequalities, gender equality and human rights. putting people at the centre, involving communities and ensuring that we learn from covid, in particular to build sustainable health systems is fundamental. this is why we welcome the broad principles, reiterated commitments and strong calls contained in the resolution tabled today. the european union is actively involved in the negotiation of an ambitious and progressive new political declaration for the upcoming high-level meeting on hiv-aids. as with previous united nations political declarations, the most sensitive issues will require delicate negotiations. on behalf of the european union, the commission is recommending the inclusion, not only of new prevention, testing and treatment targets, but also of specific targets related to stigma, discrimination and human rights. i am convinced that the fight against hiv is closely linked to breaking down barriers, including working on legal issues ensuring equitable access of key populations to services and treatments and strengthening the overall health systems, accompanied by an enabling environment for sustainable financial resources, notably domestic. the response to the hiv pandemic also requires further focus on adolescent girls and young women. our new gender action plan 3, puts the fight against gender inequality at the centre of our action. the commission is a long-standing supporter of the fight against hiv. we are a major contributor to the global fund with eur 550 million for the period 2020-2022 and we attach high importance to fighting hiv-aids globally. our more recent support to the work of the act accelerator, notably its cross-cutting health system connector, is paramount to mitigating the indirect effects of the covid pandemic and to strengthening the preparedness and response to current and future pandemics, and this includes hiv-aids. the upcoming high-level meeting provides an important opportunity to remobilise the international community with respect to the fight against hiv-aids, and you can count on the eu’s engagement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aids is a terrible disease, one that has been removed from our agendas, one that is often forgotten, but one that is very much a part of our daily lives. the picture, as mr tobé has already mentioned, is dramatic: in 2019, the number of people living with hiv was 38 million: of these 12 million, they had no access to life-saving retroviral therapy. the death toll was 700,000. sub-saharan africa continues to be the most affected region, with 57% of all new hiv infections and 84% of hiv infections in children. the next united nations general assembly must make a strong and renewed global commitment to eradicate this disease, as the commissioner has already said. we must ensure that care is provided which is too often blocked by the logic of profit. strong attention is also needed to guarantee the right to sexuality and to combat discrimination, the criminalisation of homosexual and transsexual persons, and gender inequalities: even today, in some parts of the world, we are facing a ghettoization that is conducive to disease.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commission for sharing the documents, as required by the recovery and resilience instrument regulation. however, i would like to raise a point that is close to my heart in terms of transparency: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is available to the public. these plans are essential for the citizens and we must not forget that they are the best instrument we have for scrutiny and control of public expenditure. we can assess, on the basis of the documentation provided, whether the objectives and constraints are being met, but it is above all our duty to ensure maximum transparency for the citizens, who are the real taxpayers and the real beneficiaries of this instrument. i therefore ask the commission to make an effort to do so: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget.
in writing. most member states have now submitted their national recovery plans, which are currently being assessed. a dialogue with the commission has begun, and the commissioners have confirmed that the commission will share its assessment of the plans with parliament. the process of trilogue, which was discussed between the parties and is enshrined in the rrf legislation, is well underway, and all participants are doing their job. but parliament is unhappy again, nothing is enough for it. we should remember that we lost months last year too because the ep tried to force the rule of law mechanism to create political conditions for the eu's financial sanctions. self-serving, pseudo-democratic actions like today's debate are not about speeding up vaccinations or restoring the economy. parliament has completely lost its role in the treaties and is seeking to enforce them. the commission assesses the national plans and the council adopts them. i ask my colleagues not to try to politicise it or to influence the commission's professional work. today's comments from the left have shown that they want to punish certain countries again; their goal is to deprive germans and poles of resources. i am proud that hungary has submitted a national recovery plan that would allocate 42% of the funds to green and 34% to health development. as a responsible budget advocate, we are not taking out loans for the time being, and we are actually launching programs at the expense of the national budget in order to get the hungarian economy to resources as soon as possible.
in writing. national recovery and resilience plans negotiated by member states with the european commission must offer a real and sustainable development prospect for european citizens. the resources made available must ensure the sustainable and digital transformation of european society through concrete mechanisms designed to reduce inequalities and develop opportunities for future generations. investment in education (for which we initiated the european parliament's request that at least 10% of the gni go to this area), improving access to quality healthcare and developing a resilient economic environment that respects the highest social standards are key priorities. the european parliament's right to information should be respected in order to increase the transparency of the development, evaluation and implementation of the national recovery plans. the current member state governments should not decide on the development of the plans themselves, as their implementation will take place until 2026, when some executives will end their mandates. access by the european parliament to the ongoing evaluation of the national plans is necessary to ensure a transparent procedure for the evaluation and implementation of the nrps. the commission should respect and support the role of the european parliament by providing appropriate access to materials and documents.
in writing. the parliament has concluded that the review process of the recovery and resilience mechanism does not meet the requirements. the commission has a duty to inform parliament about the process of evaluating member states' recovery and resilience plans. this information shall not be withheld and shall be provided in an understandable format. this should not be used as a means to irresponsibly allocate funds specifically earmarked for the recovery of each member state from the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. these processes are in place to ensure full transparency and accountability and the democratic legitimacy of the plans. the plans should reflect the state's engagement with all relevant stakeholders, in particular local and regional authorities and civil society. i call on my colleagues to support this resolution and to engage in an open and constructive dialogue on recovery and resilience with the european commission.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the revised industrial strategy for europe (2021/2669(rsp)).
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it’s a pleasure for me to be here today to present the updates of our industrial strategy, and with that, also our proposal to tackle foreign subsidies. both initiatives are based on european strengths: openness to trade, fairness in competition and diversity in size: countries, as well as businesses, strong as a whole. just a year ago, we presented our industrial strategy to help europe’s industry lead the twin transitions and become more competitive globally. the strategy built on our strong european industrial base, the diversity and the talents of people, and our innovative capacity. we have received many valuable inputs from this very house, from the resolution on a new industrial strategy from rapporteur, mr calenda, and from many other of your reports on the green transition and the digital transition. our ambitions have not changed. we still need to fully implement the strategy of last year. we are updating it with what we learned during the pandemic. people in many businesses have suffered, and this goes for a number of sectors, in particular tourism, cultural and creative industries, textiles or mobility. at the same time, this year has shown our economies and our societies at their best. we have seen the healthcare professionals, the frontline workers, continuing to do their jobs despite very difficult circumstances. essential services have continued to deliver throughout the crisis, and this shows the fundamental resilience of our economy. many companies – and that of course also goes for small and medium—sized companies – have switched production to meet urgent needs, whether that be for personal protective equipment, hand sanitisers or, more recently, vaccines. many others have made the switch to e-commerce and used digital tools to find new suppliers. the past year has shown us how blockages to the free movement of persons, goods and services can harm our economies. disruptions in supply chains have challenged us heavily. we felt more strongly than ever that the single market is our most important asset, and we have to put all our efforts into making that work. we have also proposed a single market emergency instrument to help us react more urgently, more quickly, in the event of a future crisis, to offer immediate solutions to facilitate the circulation of persons, goods and services, and to improve transparency on intra—eu exports and service restrictions. some disruptions that we have seen through the last year were of a more global nature. indeed, they have at times put at risk access to products that we cannot do without. as it’s important to base our policies on facts, we have carried out a bottom-up mapping of more than 5 000 different products and identified 137 products where the eu can be considered highly dependent on imports from third countries. most of those dependencies can be addressed through, for example, diversification of supply chains. there are, however, 34 products which are potentially more vulnerable, given their possible low potential for further diversification and substitution with eu production. the majority of them belong to the energy-intensive industries and the health ecosystems. we need to go further to engage with member states and industry to deepen our analysis and to address the strategic dependencies where needed, while safeguarding the open, competitive and trade—based eu economy. we need to strike a careful balance between strengthening our own capacity in strategic areas and ensuring that the eu reinforces its position in the global value chains, for example by diversifying external trade and cooperating with our external partners. this is what open strategic autonomy is all about. a genuine dialogue with industry and other stakeholders is crucial for us. i’m so happy that we have already launched the industrial forum, because it will help us to shape future directions. we are building on the productive experience of the european battery alliance (eba) led by my colleague, maroš šefčovič. we are developing similar initiatives in the areas of raw material and clean hydrogen, and we are preparing the launch of alliances on processors and semiconductor technologies, as well as industrial data, edge and cloud. together with the update of the industrial strategy, we also tabled a landmark proposal for a regulation on distortive foreign subsidies. with this proposal, we are putting our industrial strategy into practice by creating the conditions for fair and competitive internal markets where all companies compete on their merits. we are responding to the call from this parliament to have a level playing field. europe is a trade and investment superpower. in 2019, the stock of foreign direct investment in europe was worth more than eur 7 trillion. that’s a quarter of all foreign direct investment in the world. and that openness to investment serves us well. but openness requires fairness. for more than 60 years, our state aid rules have made sure that aid from european governments doesn’t undermine fair competition in our markets. the companies have been free to use subsidies granted by third-country governments to buy up businesses here in europe. some have been able to undercut their competitors in public tenders, not because they are more efficient but because they get unfair financial support. under the proposed regulation, companies which get subsidies from non-eu countries will need our approval under this very framework before they implement big mergers in europe. companies will have to tell us what subsidies they have received when they bid in large public tenders, and they won’t be able to close that tender without our ok. we will have the power on our own initiative to investigate any company to see if it has received foreign subsidies that harm competition in europe. we’re making sure that we have the right powers to put these rules into everyday practice. europe’s economy is open and closely interlinked with the rest of the world, and we are committed to keep it that way. at the same time, we will act assertively when that is needed to keep our economy working well for its citizens. finally, we continue our review of competition rules to make sure that they also support the green and digital transition, of course while staying true to the fundamental principles of fair competition in a single open market to the benefit of all europeans. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the epp wants european industry to become sustainable in europe. it wants industry to adopt digitalisation in europe. it wants european industry to thrive in europe. any plan for europe’s green and digital transition will only work if european industry is an integral part of the plan. we welcome the commission’s updated strategy, but we still believe it’s a work in progress. we strongly support the idea of this ecosystem approach. these one-fits-all strategies of the past of industrial policy have been the reason why they have never been taken up neither by the industry nor by member states, and we do believe that the update presents a part of that analysis. it covers six out of the 14 sectors, but that shows it’s still a work in progress and most of these ecosystems are not completed in definition or in description; analysis alone is not enough, so what we want is for each ecosystem to have an integrated strategy setting priorities for the union in terms of funding policies and regulation and we do not want to have a planned economy, but we want that the instruments fit together. it needs to address the specific needs for competitiveness, sustainability and digitalisation of each ecosystem. it needs a reference frame to test the systems for each ecosystem. this ‘one-fits-all’ approach doesn’t work. taxonomy shows us that’s not a wrong instrument, but does it work for each sector? our industry needs this perspective now. the real implementation of the union strategy starts soon, in just one year. by that time 2030 is only eight-and-a-half years away. that is an extremely short time for an industrial transition. to say it loud and clear: at present we have 120 instruments, agenda-setting instruments, funding instruments, regulation instruments, trade instruments, and so far we need this final cornerstone of the strategy to reflect better and that works in the individual sectors. so in the end, if that doesn’t fit together we don’t have high hopes that climate change and the digitalisation of work is going to work.
i would like to thank mrs vestager, on behalf of the s&d group. we find the analytical part of the commission's communication very agreeable, the assessment of industrial dependence and the recognition of the need for stricter iprs, the need for one-in, one-out application to avoid over-regulation, ecosystems and the need to update competition policy very important. many of the strategic lines are reflected in our report on industrial policy, which was approved by the european parliament. however, there are some significant shortcomings which we cannot fail to note: the first is the concrete. this communication is too vague: the commission has not yet taken any action, and it is not yet ready to take any action. we are emerging from the worst economic crisis since the war, businesses are more indebted and more fragile, entire sectors are on their knees. i also see a great risk: the eu must proceed with setting ever stricter environmental standards without at the same time giving businesses the tools and resources to invest and defend themselves against the misconduct of our competitors. the strategy is not very effective in this respect. we have suggested the possibility of using european funds as a tax credit, we have addressed the question of gas as a transitional energy in our strategy and there is no trace of it! and, of course, ecosystems - i agree with my colleague - are an important step, but we have to define the toolkit, because european businesses are in a state of enormous difficulty and we have run out of time to intervene.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. crises are always an opportunity. weaknesses and errors and new challenges are becoming more visible, we recognise that the european union needs to become more competitive, digital, green, social and independent. we should ensure that competition policy does not lose sight of the global market. we have to ask ourselves the questions: where can we become the market leader in the world? where can we become the world's technology leader? and what master plan are we working on to achieve those goals? we have a unique opportunity to strengthen our position in renewable energy technologies in the coming years - keyword hydrogen - and to become the world leader in the production of corona vaccines. let us work internally and externally to achieve these goals. let's take this chance.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, this has been an intense and i think really important debate. thank you to all the many members who have taken the floor to show the obvious: that this parliament, the european democracy, is there for european industry. it is ambitious and willing to provide support where needed. i would like to read to you what is for me a core of our update, because it states the necessary cooperation, but also that we each have our responsibility. it’s the latter part of page 5. ‘the readiness for change is high. competitive sustainability enabled by new, often digital technologies and services remain our goal. businesses are the best placed to determine how to become competitive and leaders in their sectors and at finding solutions to their challenges. where necessary, our industrial policy should then benefit from agile forms of public-private partnership and new forms of cooperation between private and public sectors to accelerate the delivery of innovative solutions that would not have been achieved otherwise. for an inclusive transition, a well-functioning social dialogue will be key.’ and this is indeed for us really important because there is a responsibility on industry here as well. and one of the really impressive things during these many months of the pandemic preparing the recovery and resilience funds – and all the planning that has gone into that, you know the work that you have done on the regulation to enable it – has been the response from industry saying ‘stay on track’. stay on the track for sustainability, we have made the plans, we are ready for change. because of the value that will be created in fighting climate change, because of the value that will be created in digitalising, because of the jobs that will be created here in europe, in leveraging that competitiveness that comes from making our strategies come true. and i will recommend the working papers. this is really substantial analytical work that allows us to base our policies on facts, because we’re not 100% depending on china. this analysis shows 5 000 different products, zooming in on 137 where we have dependencies. zooming in again on 34 where we really have to take care. and the good news, of course, is that we already have an action plan on raw materials. because we prepared this for a long time. we had the original industrial strategy a year ago. in the meantime the action plan on raw material has come, and that is really important. on the european-backed vaccine strategy, one can have different opinions: in my view it has not failed. we’re rolling out vaccine after vaccine after vaccine while at the same time playing our international role. and this shows that we’re not just here for ourselves, we’re also here for this planet when it comes to making sure that eventually everyone will be vaccinated. in europe half of the vaccines produced here are being exported. and that is what will gain us real ground for european industry to work because that is the key to opening the world and opening the markets that our industries depend on. what you will also see is that when it comes to the real driver of industry, which is the single market, we have a fully fledged not strategy but workings on the ground, hands-on every day. the first thing of course is the single market task force, because the problem is that there is a comeback in the single market. you saw it during the pandemic: the lack of mobility for people, for goods, for services; because we need common standards in services for this service market really to work. and here the single market task force is there with member states to make all of these barriers come down again, so within europe we can benefit from a single market. second, that we have a single market emergency tool because it will come back to haunt us that borders came up, that we had the queues of lorries, that it took some time for the commission actually to establish the green lanes. that will come back to haunt us, because that was not the case in the united states. that was not the case in many african countries. it was not the case in china that the borders came back up. last but not least, fdi screening, because of course we need security; the strategy for digital sovereignty also when it comes to digital security; and of course the foreign subsidies tools that will allow us to enable fair competition within the union. i really appreciate the many words said about investment. investment in r&d, investment in sustainability, but one thing i think is a given with the impressive amount of money in the multiannual financial framework, with the money that we’re going to borrow – the eur 750 billion – if we double that or triple that it would not be enough. we need to spend in order to crowd in private investment to really make this a real common effort for europe to be a competitive force, a sustainable competitive force on this planet, and this is of course what we are doing in building the different schemes, crowding in private investment. some have asked about the green side of it. well i hope everyone is looking forward to the fit for 55 package, building on the agreement in this very house. there is lots of inspiration coming from this house for the fit for 55 package, with which the industrial strategy should of course fit hand in glove. last but not least, i will in particular thank the many members who mentioned skills, because without skills we will have no industrial strategy. without digital experts, without the high level of digital skills, we will have no competitiveness. one of the main brakes on small and medium-sized businesses is the lack of qualified people to hire. this is a main effort for competitiveness that the basic skills are on a higher level, be that digital or otherwise, and that the specific skills really are top grade, and that of course is an important endeavour. not that the commission has many powers, not that the parliament has many powers, but together with member states we can make amazing things happen for people to be ready, not just to take the jobs that are created, but also to create the jobs: not the jobs of the distant future, but those of tomorrow, because our endeavour is a transition where our industry will lead in green and digital transition. thank you very much for this very impressive debate. (applause)
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. with regard to the commission's statement on the revised european industrial strategy, i would like to point out that european industry represents more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors. in light of the situation created by the pandemic, it is imperative to draw lessons from the crisis, accelerate the recovery of our economies and societies while building a greener, digital, innovative and strategically autonomous industry. i welcome the references to the green and digital transition, the commission's taking into account the consequences of the crisis for workers and businesses, the strengthening of the role of smes, the regulation on the control of foreign direct investment, the opening up of support measures in the case of the repeal of state aid, the sectoral analyses, in response to the request of my s&d group, and the emphasis on how to use the actual programmes of the multiannual financial framework to revive the economy. however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic is a challenge to european industry, and to the energy sector, unlike anything seen in decades. in order to identify the lessons of the past year and draw the appropriate conclusions, it is timely to review the industrial policy strategy developed a year ago. the energy sector is undergoing major transformation, not only due to the epidemic but also due to climate ambitions, and therefore it is essential to develop a coherent vision and policy package. it is encouraging that the european energy market has been able to cope with the difficulties caused by the coronavirus without disruption or disruption. the member states' transmission system operators are to be commended for their hard work. however, as renewables become more widespread, system operators are faced with increasing regulatory difficulties, which are not sufficiently addressed by the industrial policy strategy. the revised strategy appropriately identifies the problems of energy-intensive industries. the only way to prevent the growth of strategic dependence is to generate electricity locally. therefore, all climate-friendly energy sources, including nuclear energy, are needed in the long term. the priorities of european industry should also be taken into account when developing the mechanism for adjusting co2 emissions at the border. finally, support for smes is an essential prerequisite for a successful industrial policy strategy. providing sustainability advisors is a welcome step, but it is not enough. developed programmes and targeted resources are needed to effectively support the digital and green transition of smes.
in writing. european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors. therefore, the review of the industrial strategy published in march 2020 in light of the situation created by the pandemic is essential to draw lessons from the crisis, accelerate the recovery of our economies and societies while building a greener, digital, innovative and strategically autonomous industry. the s&ds welcome the references to the green and digital transition, the commission's taking into account of the consequences of the crisis for workers and businesses, the strengthening of the role of smes, the regulation on the control of foreign direct investment, the opening up of support measures in derogation from state aid, the sectoral analyses in response to the s&ds' request, and the emphasis on how to use the actual programmes of the multiannual financial framework to revive the economy. however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on recent deaths in the mediterranean and search and rescue at sea (2021/2690 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me start by emphasising that all loss of human lives at sea is tragic. tragic. seven hundred and forty-seven lives were unfortunately lost this year when people tried crossing the mediterranean towards european shores. it is imperative that all actors comply with all applicable international rules to ensure the efficient coordination of search and rescue operations by the respective national competent authorities. in particular, eu values and fundamental rights must be upheld, and we need to do everything to prevent loss of human life. if you look at the figures in 2020, approximately 100 000 irregular migrants crossed the mediterranean sea in total on the three main migratory routes. this year by end of april, we are at 20 000 arrivals, which is the same level as last year at this point in time. following the migration crisis in 2015, it has been recognised by the eu leaders that the most effective and long-term solution to this issue is a comprehensive approach to migration which combines more effective control of the eu’s external borders and increases external action and internal aspects. at the same time, enhancing the efforts to stem illegal trafficking of people and to stop smugglers’ operations are going on, on the basis of international operational cooperation with third countries at member state level and at eu level through eu agencies such as frontex and europol. as regards the control of external borders, the eu and its member states have also been reinforcing their capacity in the mediterranean through maritime operations coordinated by the european border and coast guard agency frontex, such as themis, poseidon and indalo. search and rescue is of paramount importance in such types of operations, in situations of distress at sea where the priority is to save lives. the main principle applicable in this operation is unquestionably, and i quote from the regulation: ‘measures taken for the purpose of a sea operation shall be conducted in a way that, in all instances, ensures the safety of the persons intercepted or rescued, the safety of the participating units or that of third parties.’ end of quote. in other words, safety of persons prevails over border management. in accordance with this principle, in the central mediterranean region, within the framework of the themis operation, any time a frontex plane spots a boat in distress it immediately alerts the national rescue centres in the region – italy, malta, libya and tunisia. all four are internationally recognised maritime rescue coordination centres. these centres are responsible for coordinating the search and rescue and will order the nearest vessel, be it a coastguard vessel or commercial ship, to assist the boat in distress. with a view to implementing the recommendation on search and rescue, included in the new pact on migration and asylum, member states already started convening a contact group to enhance their cooperation in relation to operations carried out by privately-owned or operated vessels for the purpose of search and rescue activities. furthermore, the malta declaration of february 2017 brought together a number of work strands in order to save lives and reduce the migratory pressure across the mediterranean sea. also at member state level, initiatives such as the operational mediterranean initiative launched in july 2020 continue now in a team europe spirit where the commission and the external service, together with interested eu member states, coordinate and implement migration management projects in western african countries. on the external dimension, the cooperation with northern and western african states is underpinned by dedicated eu funds as well as by individual contributions by member states, mainly through the eu trust fund for africa. the eu also works together with the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees and the international organization for migration. in a broader context, the presidency is working both with member states and the commission with a view to implementing a holistic approach in migration and related policy areas in line with the conclusions of the joint foreign affairs’/home affairs council of march. in this context, and i conclude, the ministerial conference on the management of migratory flows, organised by the portuguese presidency, gathering ministers from member states and from relevant north african state partners, discussed the management of migration flows and particularly the establishment of pathways for legal migration. finally, on the general dimension, since binding rules on solidarity have not yet been adopted, member states have been cooperating on a voluntary basis, relocating persons rescued in the mediterranean sea that applied for international protection.
member of the commission. – madam president, about six weeks ago, aicha, a 17—year—old teenage girl from ivory coast, got into a small boat with 58 others off the coast of mauritania. she had only told her sister of her dream to go to europe. the european dream became a nightmare. on the second day in the boat, the water ran out, and the food. on the fourth day the petrol. soon people started to scream for water. the only thing to drink was seawater. and then people started to die. at first, aicha said prayers for the dead. after a while, there were no more prayers, not even the strength to put the dead bodies overboard. we can only imagine the fear and terror as water and food ran out and one by one people died, the growing despair as time went by without land or ship in sight. they stayed in that trauma for three weeks until only three were left alive – barely, too weak to stand. when after three weeks at sea, on 26 april, a spanish aircraft spotted the boat 500 kilometres from land, and sent a helicopter to rescue aicha from what has been called a mass grave in the middle of the sea. this is a tragedy. a european tragedy. like the nightmare experienced around the same time by 130 men, women and children, in a small rubber boat in 6 metre—high waves in the mediterranean. a european tragedy with 130 people losing their lives. yesterday, at least 6 000 people from morocco reached the city of ceuta, a very substantial number of them children. the flow of these irregular arrivals continues as we speak. many of them have been saved and one person died. i will come back to that at the end. this is why we need to do everything to save lives. to prevent these extremely dangerous journeys, and why we need our new pact on migration and asylum. to manage migration, to save people’s lives, to show solidarity with people in need, and with the countries concerned. like the 24 boats with the 2 100 people who arrived in lampedusa last week in just two days. out of these people, at least 600 unaccompanied minors. i call on member states to help these people and the people being saved from the waves right now, to support italy and to help with relocations. my services are reaching out to member states as we speak and i thank ireland for being the first to offer help. over 600 people died in the mediterranean this year. we must fight the smugglers who have blood on their hands. they are organised criminals who take advantage, on an industrial scale, of vulnerable people in a pandemic. who deceive people with promises of easy entry to europe, with lies about safe and comfortable crossings in big boats. who charge eur 3 000 for a crossing – a life—saving or a crippling loan – and after cashing in, put 130 people into a small rubber boat in stormy weather, or teenagers like aicha onto a small boat on the atlantic with little water and petrol, knowing full well they won’t stand a chance. who beat people into rubber boats if they don’t want to go. law enforcement supported by europol is successfully disrupting smuggling networks in europe, arresting criminals and pressing charges for murder, but we must do more. to stop the smugglers who took advantage of aicha’s dream, to stop the criminals who put her life at risk, we need to work with countries of origin, transit and departure. that has been my priority from day 1. the eu will support partners to crack down on smuggling, to build capacity, to manage migration and protect people in need. over the last year, i’ve forged a strong political commitment to fight smuggling, manage migration and help desperate people. i will now intensify my political dialogue with third countries. after visiting morocco, mauritania and tunisia last year, in the coming weeks and months, i will further strengthen ties with north african partners. this week i will go to tunisia again. and soon i will present my action plan against migrant smuggling to strengthen operational cooperation, counter digital smuggling, go after the money – the eur 200 million in criminal profits migrant smugglers make –, and protect the rights and lives of smuggled victims like aicha. all in all, to build strong anti—smuggling partnerships with countries of origin and transit, including border management, joint investigations and awareness—raising campaigns on risk of smuggling. but fighting smugglers is not enough. we must ask ourselves why a teenage girl like aicha sees no other choice but to get into a small dangerous boat. we must give better perspectives, especially to young people, by creating economic opportunities and investing in jobs at home, and we must provide alternatives for people with dreams, skills and talent – safe and legal pathways to europe. i will organise a high—level event in june to launch talent partnership to support mobility and migration for labour and training. i will continue to invest in resettlement and other safe legal pathways to europe for people in need of protection. soon i will organise a high—level forum on resettlement. europe needs skilled people of all levels. yesterday evening, we made an agreement on a blue card and that sends a strong signal that we welcome labour migration and shows that europe can agree on migration. i admire the spanish officer who saved aicha, who dropped down from the helicopter focusing on rescuing the living, who said there are things you can’t train for, who see themselves not as heroes but public servants, and who are now on their next mission, as are many of their colleagues who are saving lives all over europe. saving lives at sea is a moral duty and a legal obligation. we need to streamline our operational cooperation to ensure a fast response at sea. we need to speed up disembarkation. search and rescue is primarily a national responsibility, but the commission does have a political responsibility and we are taking this responsibility. last september, i presented a recommendation calling for a stronger cooperation on search and rescue. in march, i set up the new european contact group on search and rescue, bringing together member states and schengen countries and all relevant parties, including ngos and our agencies, to help shape a common approach to search and rescue. finally, we have proposed a tailor—made binding mechanism on solidarity for search and rescue cases. it’s crucial now to agree on the pact. aicha cried when she saw the helicopter. after 10 days in hospital, corporal juan carlos serrano, who saved her from the water, invited aicha to meet his family. they welcomed aicha with a big hug, offered to help her and invited her to stay. and she says, ‘it feels like i have found my family’. summer is coming, there will be more stories like aicha’s. we need to work together to fight smugglers, to save lives at sea, to get an agreement on the pact. and as a society we must see people like aicha with the same eyes as juan carlos serrano; a human being like you and i who needs our help and support. before i finish, let me conclude on the unprecedented irregular arrivals to the city of ceuta from morocco since yesterday, which continue as we speak. it is worrying that at least 6 000 people, a big number of them children, have been swimming to ceuta, putting their lives in danger. many had to be rescued. one person died. the most important thing now is that morocco continues to commit to preventing irregular departures and that those that do not have the right to stay are orderly and effectively returned. spanish borders are european borders. the european union wants to build a relationship with morocco based on trust and shared commitments. migration is a key element in this regard. i’m following this very closely together with the high representative / vice—president borrell, commissioner várhelyi, and of course with the spanish authorities.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, 667: that is how many people have lost their lives in the mediterranean this year, the worst number in three years. people with a name – fathers, mothers and children. people like you and me drowning in the cold water after being pushed onto a crappy boat by unscrupulous criminals. each and every one of them an unspeakable tragedy. we must break these cynical business models, and to do that we need a common european answer. and it’s not rocket science. the proposals are there. strong border control and cooperation with third countries. quick screening to distinguish between refugees and economic migrants. fair and fast procedures to help those in need and return others. and solidarity among member states to tackle this together. the proposals have been here for many years but what we need is real willingness from the member states, from you minister in the council, to break finally the deadlock. because it’s a scandal that six years after the peak of the migration crisis, thousands more people have drowned while we are not one single step closer to a european solution. so please member states, spare us the empty expressions of shock at yet another tragedy. spare us the hollow words of sympathy with victims and families. spare us the bureaucratic news speak on constructive cooperation in the council. spare us all of this and instead finally take responsibility. lives depend on it. our citizens expect it of you. you must finally deliver.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the tragedy that was announced, which could and should have been avoided, once again highlights the lack of clear and effective coordination of search and rescue operations at sea. the european and libyan authorities were informed of what was happening at sea, but it was more than 48 hours before anyone could come to the rescue, and by the time they did, it was too late. how could this happen? europe can no longer turn a blind eye to the reality. without effective european coordination, any search and rescue operation at sea is impossible and the number of deaths in the mediterranean sea is bound to increase. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as the socialist and democratic group we believe that a new approach to search and rescue operations is indispensable and urgent, providing for a permanent european instrument with more effective coordination between national authorities, equipped with materials and financial support to strengthen their capacity to intervene. the procedures in force today are not working and with the arrival of summer and better weather conditions the humanitarian situation in the mediterranean will become even more unsustainable. it is not enough to present the new pact on migration and asylum, which is still facing the same resistance from some national governments that have already prevented the reform of the dublin regulation, voted by parliament, from being finally adopted. the time has come to make a european and solidarity-based approach to migration prevail. the commission must be immediately put in a position to work on a new, effective ad hoc operational plan for rescue and relief operations, accompanied by precise commitments on relocations in europe, the identification of safe ports of disembarkation which are really safe, the fight against traffickers and a foreign policy of cooperation in the places of conflict and misery from which migrants depart. any other emergency response, simplistic or propaganda, costs lives and only moves the solution further.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, numerous debates on this subject in this house to date and no result: the deaths at sea continue and with them the illegal arrivals. the figures in italy are tripled: frontex tells us that there is a 157 per cent increase in the mediterranean and that 70,000 are ready to arrive in sicily. apart from the action of a few individuals, such as matteo salvini, who as a minister courageously handled the emergency, there are only signs of weakness and immobility coming from europe. the words of solidarity and condolences from brussels are not enough: we need concrete policies. this debate is yet another defeat because of those who, here and in the committee, continue to pursue unrealizable ideas, both cloaked in goodwill and failing in practice. the title proves it: the resolution was to discuss the deaths at sea and the situation in lampedusa, but instead it was about search and rescue at sea, even though, let us remember, in october 2019 the house had already rejected the resolution on this subject. the ngos cannot be the solution, nor can the old european operations at sea, which encourage illegal departures. let's prevent deaths, stop departures, really protect the rights of everyone: for those who need protection and those who are tired of suffering. no more hotspots of false well-wishers, used only to welcome those whom you are making slaves of the new millennium.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have known for years that if the number of illegal immigrants at sea increases, so does the number of deaths at sea: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, including the introduction of a system of penalties for the trafficking of human beings. we on the european right cannot accept the death of any migrant, whereas it is now clear that the more radical leftists need these deaths to fuel their immigration ideology, also known as no borders. we believe that a naval garrison is necessary in cooperation with the african states; we believe that it is necessary to establish before departure who is entitled to international protection and to guarantee them safe and free transport to europe, as well as work and a dignified existence. this is our solution to stop the slaughter at sea but also to provide relief to border countries, such as italy or spain, whose social, health and economic fabric is periodically overwhelmed by the unmanageable number of arrivals. the european institutions must finally have the courage and the honesty to choose our proposal instead of pursuing a line which has so far only caused despair, pain, disorder and illegality.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every new tragedy in the mediterranean is followed by this ridiculous ritual of mourning: there will be a new nuremberg, but unlike in the past, today we know everything. i'm not in. if we cannot deal with this, then let us spare ourselves this hypocritical policy. what are the institutions and places of political and democratic representation for if not to manage epochal phenomena like this? let 's be clear . inside and outside, there are those who feign pity and those who reason with cynicism. there are member states who are holding our hands tied and preventing a radical reform of the dublin regulation, the establishment of a naval rescue mission at sea, the creation of safe access channels to europe to prevent more slaughter in the mediterranean. on lampedusa, my island, i looked into the eyes of so many young people and children as they stepped off of crumbling boats, people who had made it through without drowning. and we're still here talking, but what are we talking about?
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in case some of you have not noticed, there is a global pandemic going on. our governments have everywhere suspended certain constitutional freedoms: restricted freedom of movement for european citizens; there's a curfew. certain categories are prevented from working; marriages cannot be celebrated; you can't visit dying relatives in the hospital and even funerals are held in a limited way. the only thing the european union is not thinking of stopping is illegal immigration. there are some in this house and within european governments who would like to allow irregular migrants to come freely to europe, without restrictions. since january 2021, 13,303 people have arrived in italy, almost 4,300 in may alone. in 2019, when the minister of the interior was matteo salvini, the migrants disembarked were 1,219, less than a tenth of this year, and there was not even the coronavirus to discourage departures. fortunately, matteo salvini, who some wanted to convict for stopping the landings, was acquitted by the judge. defending the borders is not a crime! europe is now on trial and our citizens are the judges: the european union must commit itself to stopping the landings or it will be found guilty once again.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr commissioner, i categorically disagree with neither the support for uncontrolled migration nor the suicidal policy of replacing the population of our continent and changing its cultural, religious, national and traditional attitude. i find this policy irresponsible. i find this policy suicidal and i strongly condemn your policy, honourable colleagues. you are against italy's actions to protect the external borders of the european union, but i strongly support them. bulgaria, greece, italy, spain are the countries that have to withstand enormous migration pressure. unfortunately, the european union continues to lag behind in its support for these countries and continues to waste time on empty talk and rosy dreams. the european union's migration policy should focus on deterring, rather than promoting, flows of illegal immigration. europe is our home, the home of the european nations, and we must and will defend this home. europe cannot be a safe haven for anyone who has decided to come here and change our way of life. it is high time we put an end to this suicidal policy and start defending our values, traditions and way of life.
madam president, please. we are debating yet another migration report that is concerned about the human rights of illegal migrants, but it contains no mention of strengthening border controls or stopping illegal migration. it's not about addressing the root causes of migration, it's about improving the living conditions of the countries that are emitting. it criticises the agreements between the eu and third countries on the return of illegal migrants, which are necessary elements of eu migration policy. it would make future operation impossible with excessive monitoring mechanisms. the aid, the incentives to stay in the country of origin, should be brought to the sending countries to improve the living conditions and safety of the local people, thereby encouraging them to stay. you can't have whole generations migrating. local aid can be a sustainable solution. hungary is leading these efforts with the international humanitarian programme hungary helps.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again, faced with another missed opportunity. in this house we are discussing human rights in third countries and how to encourage the immigration activities of ngo ships. outside here in spain, a socialist government has just deployed the army to confront 6,000 immigrants who arrived in less than 24 hours. a german ngo ship is now disembarking 400 migrants in italy, despite the fact that more than 15,000 have already been disembarked since the beginning of the year, three times as many as last year. outside, dictators and pirates make a living off the hypocrisy of the european union, while migrants who survive the sea crossings end up in the hands of organized crime as cheap labour. here you are cleansing your conscience, criticizing the european states that do not open their doors to immigration; outside of this, cities in italy, spain, greece, malta are being turned into huge refugee camps. get out of here and face reality for all of us!
president, human rights are not a matter of life and death. the rapporteur claims that the development of the rights of migrants is a source of progress, of which all of humanity can be proud. i think we should be ashamed of political leaders around the world who are responsible for uncontrolled migration flows. these are the tyrants, but they are also the gentle healers here in the european union. the three objectives of the european commission are not sufficiently supported by effective policies at present and the rapporteur proposes even more ineffective policies. while we should be addressing the causes, it is addressing the consequences, and we must stop doing that. this requires political courage, because it goes against the established interests of the immigrant industry and the smugglers. but there's still time, and it's about time.
madam president, today is not a good day to talk about human rights and migration when, in the last 24 hours, almost 9 000 immigrants have entered ceuta illegally. can we talk about human rights when governments, by action or omission, ship thousands of people, many of them minors, to an uncertain destination, while other governments, unable to manage the situation, limit themselves to banners and gestures? can we talk about human rights when migrants arriving on the canary islands are crowded into the dock of arguineguín, or when minimum living and hygiene conditions are not guaranteed in the makeshift and overcrowded reception centres, or when they are allowed to roam the streets and become the target of those who incite hate speech, or when reception plans envisage turning regions such as the canary islands into permanent reception centres for illegal immigrants? there are many questions and only one answer: to commit ourselves to a policy which is decisive, coherent and responsible. the european union's firmness, solidarity and support. there is no other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by saying that we are all children of immigrants. i feel very comfortable saying this, because i am the daughter of first generation immigrants myself. my parents didn't come from far away, they came from southern italy. so when i hear my italian colleagues reject the migration issue in a totally dehumanizing way, well, i am offended by these speeches and by these colleagues. it is true that the european union's migration policy is difficult today. in the face of these challenges, we have often made the wrong choices. i would even say that the member states have made the wrong choices. they chose to leave only the countries of entry, italy, greece or spain. they have chosen to make agreements with neighbouring countries such as turkey or other countries. in making these choices, we have failed to show solidarity within the european union and we have failed to take political responsibility, because we have placed ourselves at the mercy of the turkish or moroccan authorities, who can let people pass and let them die at sea. so i hope that this report will be voted on, because it makes other recommendations.
madam president, for the umpteenth time we are examining a report on the european union's migration policy, that is, as usual, a text extolling the benefits of immigration and stressing, on the basis of human rights, the need to strengthen the rights of migrants. you persist in denying reality through an immigration policy that goes against the wishes of our compatriots. for example, 71% of french people consider that there are too many foreigners in france. our compatriots demand the right to live on a continent that is like their own, the right to preserve their identity, their roots and their traditions, and the right to prefer their family, their nation and their civilization to that of others. instead of listening to the voices of the people, you have despised it. instead of protecting our identities, you encourage their disappearance; instead of securing our borders, you leave them open; instead of suppressing the underground, you're legalizing it. that is not the europe we want. what our compatriots want is a europe that protects, a europe that cooperates, a europe that respects the values and identity of the peoples: the complete opposite of what the european union proposes.
madam president, we are united in our desire to protect the human rights of refugees and migrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, to control the flow of refugees and migrants from turkey and libya in particular, so that we do not fall victim to a hybrid war signed by erdogan. secondly, the pressure of any movement through turkey, libya and other countries should not be confined to the first host countries but should be spread as far as possible throughout the european union of 27. we must avoid excessive pressure and above all be able to properly receive and care for refugees and migrants, but when 2,000 people show up in a 24-hour period in lampedusa, italy, there is clearly a problem. we need goodwill and humanity, but at the same time a framework of relative stability.
madam president, now that the conference on the future of europe is beginning, where the citizens of europe have a say, it is very useful to remember that nothing is so harmful to the credibility of the european project as the contradiction between its words and its deeds, between its promises and its breaches. the european union's foreign policy is full of rhetoric about rights, solidarity and humanitarian values, and that is why it is incompatible with the externalization of borders; incompatible with the failure to provide aid, with the criminalization of non-governmental organizations that save lives at sea; incompatible with the closure of any legal and safe route; incompatible, in short, with the absence of solidarity. that is why the pact on migration and asylum currently being negotiated in the european parliament is an opportunity and a duty for this european parliament to ensure the binding solidarity required by union law, shared responsibility, and to overcome any form of contradiction between words and deeds, particularly in the face of that obsessive mandate of the european union's cooperation agreements with the countries of origin and transit which wants to increase the (inaudible words) for better or for worse, with dignity or without it: that is not the way.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of irregular migrants are still being traced in trieste, udine, gorizia, pordenone and other towns in my region, friuli venezia giulia. these migrants do not arrive in italy by boat, as one might think, but on foot, along the so-called balkan route. with the good season these flows are certainly destined to increase and in this time of severe crisis both pandemic and economic italy cannot be left alone. we therefore need more patrols, we need to strengthen europe's external borders, including physical and technological barriers. we need to set up control centres outside the european union, where it can be checked whether a migrant has the right to enter or not, and if he does not have the right to enter, he must be returned! italy and friuli venezia giulia cannot become the refugee camp of europe. commissioner, listen to the cries of alarm coming from our territories and our people. try not to fail this time.
member of the commission. – madam president, the debate today demonstrated the importance, but also the complexity, of the external dimension of migration. the comprehensive approach set out in the new pact is very clear. we want to build and strengthen migration partnerships and the promotion and protection of the human rights of migrants and forcibly-displaced persons in an integral part of this approach. we all agree that we need to improve and ensure the human rights of migrants in a sustainable way. during the last year, we had several opportunities to discuss eu migration policies in relation to the new pact on migration and asylum, the preparation of your report, and on the human rights and democracy action plan and annual report. let me reiterate that we very much look forward to continuing to work closely with you in the european parliament to ensure coherence and transparency and deliver sustainable results.
in writing. the recent reports of collusion between frontex and the libyan coastguard represent a new low in european migration policy. the eu appears to be actively involved in the return of asylum seekers to libyan ports where they face detention and torture, in violation of international law. we need fundamental reforms now to put human rights and humanity at the heart of eu migration policy. with this report by my colleague from the green group, tineke strik, the european parliament is making a concrete proposal: the european commission should set up an independent control mechanism to monitor and enforce the respect for human rights at the eu's external borders. instead of illegal backroom deals, we need clear human rights criteria for migration agreements with third countries. in addition, the eu must increase its development policy engagement in transit countries to improve their situation. the eu can no longer outsource its responsibility to third countries, but must itself take in asylum seekers and create legal pathways to europe!
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it is a pleasure to join you today to discuss the european parliament’s report on turkey after eu-turkey relations were also discussed as part of the exchange you held at your last plenary with the president of the european council and the president of the european commission. we take note of the clear messages and the grave concerns expressed in your resolution, many of which the council shares. one of the council’s key concerns, and one which you also have highlighted on many occasions, is the ever-worsening domestic situation in turkey regarding the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. the targeting of political parties and media, and other recent decisions taken by the turkish authorities represent major setbacks for human rights and run counter to the country’s obligations to respect democracy, the rule of law and women’s rights. let me assure you that many other issues referred to in your report, such as the situation in the eastern mediterranean, the implementation of the eu—turkey statement and the proper functioning of the customs union, are also being followed closely. this similarly goes for the cyprus problem and turkey’s role in regional crises such as those in libya, syria and the southern caucasus. we have noted your repeated call for a formal suspension of the accession negotiations with turkey. on this point, let me just recall that the council already in its june 2018 enlargement conclusions noted that turkey continued to move further away from the european union. the council noted that turkey’s accession negotiations have, as a result, effectively come to a standstill. the council has not changed its position on this. in our view, it remains important, as you also note in your report, that we do not close the door to turkey. the eu has a strategic interest in the development of a cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with turkey. i refer in particular to the common challenges we face and the need to cooperate in essential areas of joint interest such as the economy, people-to-people contacts and mobility, public health, climate and counter-terrorism, regional issues and migration management. regarding the situation in the eastern mediterranean, we have recently witnessed signs of de-escalation, including the discontinuation of illegal drilling activities. the resumption of bilateral talks between greece and turkey is a further encouraging sign, which we hope can contribute to a more stable and secure environment in the eastern mediterranean. precisely on this basis, the members of the european council in march expressed a readiness to engage with turkey in a phased, proportionate and reversible manner to enhance cooperation in a number of areas of common interest under the clear proviso that the current de-escalation is sustained, that turkey engages constructively and subject to the established conditionalities set out in previous european council conclusions. the leaders also confirmed the union’s determination to use the instruments and options at its disposal to defend the interests of the union and of its member states and to uphold regional stability. these and other matters relating to eu-turkey relations are being followed and discussed by the european council. its next discussion on the subject is expected to take place in june. as presidency, we will continue to do our utmost to convince turkey to do its part and fulfil its commitments.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank this house, and in particular the rapporteur and the members of the committee on foreign affairs (afet committee) for their comprehensive report on turkey. your report is in line with the main findings of our report, the commission’s report, and the latest developments on the ground. it also clearly illustrates the challenges regarding eu-turkey relations. in recent years eu—turkey relations were strained due to a multitude of factors, notably the tense situation in the eastern mediterranean and the aegean sea, developments in cyprus, in particular the actions around varosha, and turkish positioning in favour of a two-state solution in breach of the un security council resolutions, turkey’s deviations from its obligations under the customs union, and the continued backsliding on reforms, democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights. turkish foreign policy actions, which increasingly collided with the eu priorities, continue to complicate eu-turkey relations as well as turkey’s relations with individual member states. as a result, eu-turkey relations reached a very low point last year. however, in recent months we have witnessed a de-escalation in the eastern mediterranean, the resumption of bilateral talks between greece and turkey and of the informal talks on the cyprus problem in geneva. these are welcome facts which need to be sustained and enhanced along with turkey’s constructive engagement with the eu and all its member states. however, this de-escalation on the foreign policy front has not been accompanied by a positive momentum when it comes to domestic reforms. since the beginning of this year we have seen a further backsliding on the rule of law and human rights situation in turkey and a failure to address the commission’s recommendations in these areas. the situation remains a serious concern, a concern that eu leaders address regularly as these issues are central to the future of eu-turkey relations. the targeting of political parties and media and other recent moves undermining freedom of expression and freedom of association represent major setbacks and run counter to turkey’s obligations. turkey’s withdrawal from the istanbul convention is a major disappointment and its failure to implement the legally binding rulings of the european court of human rights, including those on mr demirtaş and mr kavala is troubling. the commission remains also concerned about the limited progress on economic and sectoral reforms. let me highlight the repeated dismissals of the central bank governors and the failure to ratify the paris agreement on climate change. in the commission’s view, the credibility and the independence of economic and regulatory authorities need to be restored as a matter of priority as they are a foundation of the single market and the good functioning of our customs union. the eu has a strategic interest in the development of a cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with turkey. we have also a strong interest in a stable and prosperous turkey. this is why the march 2021 european council offered a more positive dynamic in our relationship by expressing readiness to engage with turkey in a phased, proportionate and reversible manner. the objective is to create the basis for enhancing cooperation in a number of areas of common interest. four priority areas have been identified for the preparatory work in the run-up to the june european council. the first would be trade, the second migration, the third high-level dialogues and the fourth, people-to-people contacts. when it comes to trade we expect turkey to address as a matter of priority some of the existing irritants and its deviations from the customs union obligations. resolute action before the june council is important to prepare the ground for the modernisation of the customs union. on migration, our cooperation has allowed irregular migration flows to fall significantly in recent years. the eu-turkey statement remains the key framework for our cooperation in this area. we recognise the immense burden shouldered by turkey in hosting the largest refugee population in the world. in this context, the commission will soon propose options for continuing the eu support provided under the facility for refugees. at the same time, it is important for turkey to resume returns of irregular migrants from greece to turkey without delay and avoid opening alternative routes, as well as to further reduce arrivals of irregular migrants in cyprus. on high-level dialogues, the commission has offered to focus now on health and climate change, two important and generational issues of concern. the commission will also explore ways to strengthen cooperation with turkey on people-to-people contacts and mobility. we hope that turkey will seize the opportunity offered by eu leaders and demonstrate its readiness to change its course and set up the basis for a new relationship with the eu. should this not be the case, and should turkey reverse its more constructive stance of recent months, the eu is ready to use all its instruments and options to defend the eu’s interests. however, our priority now is to work constructively with turkey and bring about the positive changes and improvements we are all awaiting. we are ready to create a new relationship with turkey. i am convinced that the consensus among eu institutions and member states on what this relationship should be has grown in recent years. however, we will need turkey to cooperate and engage all the way.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on petitions. dear mr. chairman, dear mr. commissioner, colleagues, i wonder when you will finally open your eyes to erdogan's behavior. when will you finally understand and see what erdogan is doing in turkey? when will you see prisons full of journalists and journalists' children? when will you see the invasions, the invasions, the provocations in the mediterranean, against cyprus, in egypt, in libya, in nagorno-karabakh, the war against armenia? when will you see the violation of human rights, the violation of media freedom in turkey and when will you understand that this man is mocking you in your eyes? that's what i'm wondering, fellas. i wonder, mr commissioner, if the commissioner has not already been informed of the you say we need a strategic partnership with turkey. that's great, commissioner, but erdogan is laughing in your face and showed it days ago when he showed what a nacavalier mr. charles michel is and sent the commission president, mrs. von der leyen, to the sofa, in the lobby, in the entrance, somewhere. is this a strategic partnership, gentlemen? no, it's a dictator who does whatever he wants and humiliates both the european union and the european parliament and whatever you can think of.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the report that nacho sánchez amor and his colleagues and collaborators have produced is extremely balanced. at the end of long negotiations, the facts are concrete and the report, i believe, is one that deserves the approval of the european parliament. and then turkey today -- it's clear to everybody -- turkey violates many of the normal provisions in a democratic country. they violate human rights, they violate and assault their neighbors and so on. these are facts that you all know, not worth repeating now, in the little time i have. but the third thing that i think is the most important is, what do we do with turkey? turkey today is a candidate state that has often overcome its challenges, has often, most often, been outside the boundaries of a democratic world. but turkey is a vital neighbour to the european union, it is a direct neighbour to a significant number of eu member states, it is a strategic partner and an ally to 21 eu member states, members, at the same time, of the nato political-military alliance. it's going to be a complicated and, i hope, important decision that we all make.
on behalf of the renew group. - mr president, commissioner, we have already discussed 'sofagate' and what the ankara incident says about the dichotomy that often prevents europe from playing a strong geopolitical role. we have not spoken enough about turkey itself, about our weakness in the face of a country which is increasingly moving away from the values and standards which make a country european. every year we vote here on a progress report on how far turkey is on the road to possible eu membership. well, it's a regression report all over again. the report shows how democracy, human rights and the rule of law are being undermined in turkey, how erdoğan's policy is directed against europe, with a mixture of pretence and threats against us, violating the territorial integrity of eu member states, using migration as a weapon and turkey's foreign policy is completely against our european interests. what we want with this report, commissioner, is a european union that stands together. if the deliberate policy of undermining human rights is not reversed quickly and credibly, then the accession negotiations with turkey must be suspended. this turkey has no place in our union. time to stop playing erdogan's game. it is time for europe to speak its mind.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. when we are debating today something like a progress report on the negotiations between the european union and turkey, it would be far more appropriate to call it not a progress report but a massive backsliding report. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to say that it is not a political group, but that it is a political group. besides being highly absurd, to put a curse on someone in 2021 is also an insult to the special class. and i would like a majority of the house to be able to reach something like a majority decision on a clear condemnation of this. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to show your solidarity. do you really want to negotiate with someone who curses a part of this european family of nations - austria - here, and pays 750 million euros every year? i say let us be honest, let us end these negotiations with turkey. turkey is not part of europe and never will be!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must not make the mistake of confusing turkey and its people, a melting pot of traditions and cultures, with the increasingly authoritarian government of erdoğan, which is dragging the country into a dangerous vortex of nationalism and revenge, contributing to the destabilisation of the whole middle east and the entire eastern mediterranean. the latest provocation is the request to participate in the pesco military mobility project, which also includes cyprus and greece, two member states which have been victims for years of erdoğan's aggressive rhetoric and violations of territorial integrity. this report is more dramatic every year; we should no longer call it a progress report but a regression report, as since 2014 the government in ankara has been indisputably moving away from eu standards, policies, interests and values. we must face reality, understand that they are not doing the eu any harm but above all the turkish people, because they are preventing them from moving further towards a free and inclusive democratic society. we must suspend the negotiations and stand by turkish civil society, which is demonstrating once again its determination, cohesion and political vision, because these are the only aspects that turkey will be able to understand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european parliament's report on turkey this year is the most critical to date. and he's gaining widespread political support. the policy of president erdoğan is responsible for the necessary criticism. i regret this situation, because there is not much left of democracy, freedom of the press and even the freedom of members of parliament to exercise their mandate if they deviate from the government's line. stop the proposed ban on the hdp, mr president! it will do you no good, but increase the internal confrontation. in view of this behaviour and further developments in domestic and foreign policy, from armenia and azerbaijan to the behaviour towards eu neighbours, we doubt the real will of turkey to join. we are not doing you a favour by ending the whole accession process, but are asking the commission to formally freeze the negotiations if nothing fundamental turns out to be positive. this would merely formally confirm the existing factual situation.
mr president, it is true: since 2014, and you said it, mr minister, turkey has moved away from democracy. mr erdoğan's turkey is moving away from democracy. it is engaged in a massive crackdown on all those whom mr erdoğan considers to be the opposition: journalists, lawyers, teachers and doctors are being arrested en masse and even tortured in prisons. this repression is also being carried out outside turkey's borders, because today turkish nationals in germany, austria and belgium are being threatened with death by mr erdoğan's supporters. so when the council and the commission say they have a constructive political programme between the european union and turkey, what are they talking about? who will actually benefit from this positive program? will it help intellectuals, dissidents and human rights defenders get out of prison? will he ensure the independence of justice? will it protect the kurdish minorities? that is the question i am asking you, and that is the question this report is asking. there is a condition for being able to have a relationship with turkey: it is the condition of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year our assembly votes on dozens of reports and resolutions condemning, sanctioning and expressing outrage at the behaviour of authoritarian regimes: russia, venezuela, uganda, belarus and so on. any attack on the universal values we claim to uphold is scrupulously denounced here, without our texts having any real significance, but at least we are in good conscience with ourselves. when it comes to erdogan's turkey, it immediately seems more complicated. today's report is certainly tougher than in previous years and rightly highlights many violations of rights and political provocations by the ankara regime. but this report still fails to express clearly the taboo truth that pollutes any lucid debate on the relations between the union and turkey: the inevitable end of the accession process, a myth that no one in any of our european capitals, not even in ankara, has believed in for a long time. turkey is and will remain a great neighbour of europe. nor is it to be looked down upon or humiliated, as is the case with other large neighbours with sometimes divergent interests and sometimes problematic regimes; but it is imperative and urgent to redefine a framework for discussion that is no longer the incomprehensible and paralysing framework of the accession process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law and respect for human and civil rights are suffering terrible blows in erdoğan's turkey. withdrawal from the istanbul convention, the attempt to outlaw a major democratic force like the hdp, the silencing of the main sources of internal dissent, from human rights defenders to lawyers to political opponents: this is all the confirmation of a continuing authoritarian involution. this is accompanied by a dangerous role in the mediterranean, which also exploits a glaring void left by the european union. turkey is in fact one of the protagonists in the libyan and syrian scenario and is in danger of becoming the main interlocutor of the palestinian people today, which is also left alone by our silence. we need a breakthrough. at such a difficult time, we must stand with civil society and the turkish opposition and continue to strongly denounce what erdoğan is doing, what he is also doing against the values of the european union.
in writing. turkey has been a candidate country for accession to the european union since 1999. since 1999, the eu has been providing funds and substantial economic support to a country that has only become more radical and authoritarian over the years. since erdoğan became prime minister and then president, turkey has embarked on a pro-islamist policy, far removed from any european values and standards. in foreign policy, too, "sultan" erdoğan has embarked on an increasingly assertive and hostile policy towards many european countries: the european union is not only against greece and cyprus in the eastern aegean, but also against italy in the libyan theatre. as the european union we cannot simply stand by and make complaints. the deterioration in respect for human rights, the continuing restrictions on freedom of the press and association, the imprisonment of journalists and professors prove to us, once and for all, only one thing: turkey is not and will never be europe.
in the name of the id group. madam president, minister santos silva, ladies and gentlemen, israel has the right and the duty to defend itself, and zionism is a wealth of the world. these are the two key messages - one political and one cultural - that i would expect europe to communicate in an unambiguous and united voice. israel is a close partner, a defender of the rules-based international order, it is the main partner in the most strategic and important area for europe: the mediterranean and the enlarged mediterranean. israel can build mutual understanding and coexistence; respect human dignity and freedoms, including religious freedom; israel has an inclusive and pluralistic society; he's a champion of science and technology. on the contrary, iran and hamas sponsor terrorism, hate and resentment; they are enemies of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and human dignity. the european union should be less ambiguous and more strategically oriented towards building peace with israel, thus giving impetus to the economic revival of the entire region and abandoning all forms of anti-semitism forever.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on corporate taxation (2021/2691 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i’m pleased to be here today to present the communication on business taxation for the 21st century that we adopted this morning. reforming business taxation, as this house perfectly knows, will not be an easy task, and your support will be crucial to make sound and fast progress there. while we continue to do everything we can to fight the pandemic, we also have to look ahead to shape the post-pandemic world. and to build back better, we need also a robust tax agenda with targeted measures that promote productive investment and entrepreneurship and ensure effective taxation. the current eu business taxation environment is not in line with the objectives of the new industrial strategy, with our ambitions for the green and digital transitions. despite progress in removing barriers to the single market in many other areas, companies doing business in the eu still need to grapple with up to 27 different tax systems. this patchwork of national tax rules creates unnecessary compliance costs for businesses. it also leads to loopholes and mismatches that can leave open opportunities for aggressive tax planning, reducing the tax burden of some businesses at the expense of other taxpayers, eroding the citizens’ trust in the system. i believe it is time for bold proposals to change our rules so that they are fit for the realities of this century. honourable members, the current international corporate tax system was designed more than a century ago and is based on outdated principles of tax residence and source. the eu and its member states, together with our partners at the g20 and the oecd, are currently negotiating rules that would overhaul this international corporate tax framework. as you know very well, the discussions are based on two pillars. pillar one envisages the reallocation of some of the profits of the biggest multinationals worldwide towards market jurisdictions. and pillar two: a minimum level of effective taxation for multinational groups. the negotiations have taken a new dynamic after years recently, and indeed the new us administration proved to be a game changer. both pillars of the future global agreement are in line with the commission’s vision. following the agreement on a global solution, the commission will act swiftly to ensure its effective implementation in the eu. today it’s our turn to present a strategic agenda on business taxation. we are drawing on the momentum of member states’ support for international reform to ensure that rules are adapted and agreed at domestic level too. the communication sets out that the commission will bring forward a proposal for a eu business tax framework fit for the decades to come – the business in europe framework for income taxation, or befit. with the befit proposal we will create a common rulebook for groups of companies operating in more than one member state. we will reduce red tape and cut compliance costs in the single market. we will combat tax avoidance. we will provide a simpler and fairer way to allocate taxing rights between member states. the new proposal will replace the pending ccctb proposal and will build on progress in the ongoing global discussions on the international corporate tax reform. it will reflect the evolving nature of a digitalised economy by considering the contribution of intangibles and giving more emphasis to the taxing rights of market jurisdictions. the detailed design of befit will be developed over the next two years in discussion with member states, with the parliament and stakeholders. honourable members, the communication adopted today includes also other important steps for the next two years to address the challenges in the areas of ensuring fair and effective taxation and to support productive investment and entrepreneurship. first, we cannot allow the toxic tax abuses of multinational corporations that leave holes in public finances and drive up the burden on honest taxpayers. we will take action to step up the fight against the misuse of shell companies. those entities with no or only minimal substance and economic activity continue to be used for aggressive tax planning, tax evasion or money laundering. the commission proposal will encompass action such as denying tax benefits linked to the existence or the use of the abusive shell companies and creative new tax information monitoring and tax transparency requirements. in addition, we must shed light on the darker side of globalisation. the communication announces forthcoming measures to ensure greater public transparency on the taxes paid by large economic actors, making use of the method of calculating an effective tax rate under pillar 2 once it is agreed. other measures will support the recovery by promoting innovation, notably by addressing the debt-equity bias in corporate taxation. in conclusion, presenting this strategy, i’m aware of the difficulties, but also of the extraordinary momentum coming from the recovery from the pandemic and from a possible global agreement. working together, we can use this momentum and shape a new framework for our business taxation.
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.15 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
we now continue our debate on the commission statement (2021/2691 (rsp)).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. of course, we should be grateful to the commission for once again putting forward a proposal to tackle certain problems which we in europe have been putting off for many years. i have been a member of this parliament for a few years now and i remember very well the proposals for a corporation tax 10 years ago in 2011. one of your predecessors stood here, explained how important this was, we cheered him on, and nothing happened. in 2016, your predecessor's proposal for a new corporate tax was introduced here, we cheered, and nothing happened. now give the child a new name, now it's called befit and no longer gkkb, if i may take the german abbreviation once, and everything should be great again. they are proposing it, we are cheering, and my concern is that nothing will happen again because the core problem is the member states, the member states which have so far failed to agree on anything, and are really on the brake block on taxation issues. but we also have to ask ourselves a few self-critical questions. first, at the oecd level, it's good to hope that something will happen, but if we ourselves continue to drag, drag, drag public country-by-country reporting or the issue of digital taxation in addition to what has been agreed at the oecd level , we will not be accepted by our partners internationally as credible in the long term. and if your colleague mrs vestager does not succeed in bringing tax cases against the member states, we will not succeed on the tax front.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we always knew, even before the pandemic, that the international fiscal system is flawed and creates spaces for opportunistic behaviour – elusion, evasion and fraud – that benefit the few at the expense of many others. with thousands of businesses severely hit by the pandemic, we cannot tolerate these distortions any further, and we cannot properly support recovery with a system that allows hundreds of billions of euros in potential tax revenues to be lost because of evasion and fraud. that’s why we warmly welcome the commission’s support for a strong global agreement, as well as its commitment to act swiftly on the implementation of such an agreement. in this regard, it is clear to us that all the main elements of the current negotiations need to be maintained, the so-called pillar 1and pillar 2. we need to ensure that profits are allocated where the value is created, and at the same time we need to stop a fiscal competition that translates into a deleterious race to the bottom through a minimum effective taxation to multinationals. there’s another important element that i want to mention in this short timeframe that i have available: the commitment to propose a measure to neutralise the misuse of shell companies. it is a strong clear sign that shows a commitment to fight tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. so overall we really welcome this communication. we believe it is an important step to move towards a simpler, fairer and more transparent fiscal system and we look forward to working on that.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the proposal to harmonize the tax systems of the 27 countries of the union, which welcomes parliament's call to put an end to the abuses of the relocation of profits. the deadlock in the ccctb proposal launched in 2011 had raised concerns about the real willingness of member countries to achieve this goal. the structural changes in the market, following the pandemic crisis, require an adjustment of the taxation system that points to profits at the place of production and uses the cash flow calculation mechanism, in which they no longer record the financial components with their related instrumentation. it is also essential to ensure transparency by large companies operating in the single market by publishing their effective tax rates. i hope therefore that the proposal presented today will actually help to reduce the tax gap between the different member states and simplify the obligations of companies so that they can better plan their activities in the eu.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on culture and education on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'creative europe' programme (2021 to 2027) and repealing regulation (eu) no 1295/2013 (14146/1/2020 c9 0134/2021 2018/0190 ((cod)) (rapporteur: massimiliano smeriglio) (a9-0161/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am proud to be able to present to parliament the results achieved in the negotiations on the creative europe programme. i thank my shadow rapporteurs for their contribution. thanks to the spirit of cooperation, i have the support and confidence to negotiate on behalf of all of you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the new creative europe programme is in a completely different context, not only from seven years ago but also from the beginning of the negotiations. the context has changed, both because of the digital revolution and because of the need to respond to the critical phase that the creative and cultural sectors have been experiencing for over a year. covid has brought to light the structural fragility of the european cultural world more than ever. all sectors funded by the programme have been put to the test by the pandemic response measures, causing a cultural blockade that resembles a soul burn. and yet, if we really want to change the development model, culture, knowledge and creativity are indispensable fields because they speak to the economy and to the well-being of people. i am pleased with the new features of the programme, starting with the budget which is being reduced from 1.4 billion to about 2.5 billion. we would have preferred a full doubling of the budget, as initially requested, but we are pleased that the programme has been included, thanks also to the work of parliament, among the flagship programmes which have benefited from an increase in resources in the negotiations on the mff. the council and the commission have paid particular attention to the world of culture and to the single fund for the support of the creative and cultural sectors and industries. we are confident that synergies with the other funds will still provide further important support. the work done has enabled us to strengthen the three sections of the programme - culture, media and intersectoral - with important innovations, starting from the fact that the actions to be supported by the new programme will have to be anchored to three cross-cutting priorities: social inclusion, reduction of environmental impact and gender equality. the new programme will be in line with the pillars of europe's political strategy: the european green deal, the gender equality strategy and the disability strategy. the new programme will support the development of artistic talents and, for the first time, will have a specific reference to the recognition and promotion of the role of women in the cultural and artistic field. parliament wanted the programme to support gender mainstreaming and the integration of non-discrimination objectives. the programme will promote female talent in order to support women's artistic and professional careers at all levels. i think the cultural and creative sectors today have a fundamental responsibility to send a signal, to clearly push the gender equity pedal. parliament has succeeded in reintroducing the article on european added value, thus strengthening european identity and at the same time promoting the cultural and linguistic diversity which characterizes europe, an extraordinary variety of artistic, musical, architectural and cinematic works which are unique to the continent. the european programme of international mobility for artists and cultural workers remains. the sub-programme for culture will be divided into four areas of action: the music industry, publishing, cultural heritage and design. the media sector will continue to support independent productions, european co-productions, european networks in cinemas and video-on-demand operators and the promotion of new production models. i am pleased that for the next seven years the subprogramme will be able to continue to use the media logo, as we have known it since 1991. the increase in budget also allowed the strengthening of the cross-sectoral section, introducing a new line on media literacy, an important action against fake news and in support of quality journalism. finally, parliament worked to make the programme as accessible as possible, with less red tape and simplified procedures, with the aim of facilitating the participation of medium-sized and small local authorities. i thank the german presidency for having made it possible to accelerate and conclude the negotiations during its six-month term with a constructive attitude. last but not least, i would like to thank commissioner gabriel, whom i congratulate, and commissioner breton, and the officials from dg eac, dg connect and parliament's secretariat who worked on the negotiations. i hope that tomorrow we can all welcome the approval of this programme, which puts culture at the centre as a vehicle of social cohesion for european recovery. the europe we want must be able to invest in the beauty, the desire and the power of a great narrative. books, songs, art, creativity are all about this: to amaze us, to take our breath away and to make us feel part of a larger story than our individual existences. that 's what culture is for . the european union is not only committed to economic recovery but also, and above all, to the full well-being of every citizen.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, culture is one of the sectors most affected by the containment measures imposed by the pandemic. in europe, the cultural and creative sectors lost 90 and 76% of turnover respectively between 2019 and 2021. this is a real catastrophe also at the level of employment, if we consider that the cultural sector has a high percentage of selfemployed workers and lacks the forms of protection typical of employed work, such as the integration fund or unemployment. the organisation for economic cooperation and development estimates that between 0.8% and 5.5% of jobs in europe are at risk, with effects that could be much stronger in italy, where the cultural sector is particularly developed. italy is the first european country in terms of the share of cultural enterprises: 14.5% of european cultural enterprises are italian, ahead of france and germany. the creative europe programme is here to stay: it is a programme that is necessary for the enhancement of cultural heritage, but it is certainly not sufficient. the budget of 2.4 billion is not enough financial support. i would like to recall the words of president von der leyen, spoken in this house in 2019: "culture and education are the link between our history and our future and what makes us unique". mr president, today more than ever our small and mediumsized cultural enterprises and our workers need not only words but also substantial financial support.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to open this speech by remembering a man of great italian culture, franco battiato, who passed away today. after a long and hard-fought negotiation between parliament and the commission, not forgetting the work of the cult committee, the financial allocation for erasmus 2021-2027 was raised to eur 28,4 billion, almost double the amount of the previous programme for 2014-2020. erasmus+ is the european union's programme in the field of education, training, youth and sport. the previous project worked and today erasmus+ is expanding opportunities for more young people and a wider range of organisations. within the 2021-2027 programme, key themes such as social inclusion, environmental sustainability and the digital transition are central. in the face of all this, however, it is important not to deceive the younger generations of europeans into thinking that their future will be bright and without frontiers, and to drown out any sense of cultural identity and belonging by promising fun and transnational mobility. the erasmus generation is the generation of the homo novus, who must not be understood as the citizen of the world, deprived of all citizenship and roots. the principle to be upheld is that of the citizen of his own country, who, only through an awareness of his own cultural identity, can confront other cultures and acquire a deeper knowledge of the world and its opportunities. finally, the erasmus+ project should not be a distraction and a form of ideological indoctrination of europeanist ends in itself or, worse, used by the globalist mainstream to domesticate and commodify the new generations. erasmus+ is the vehicle for the european union's motto, 'united in diversity'.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european solidarity corps was launched by president juncker in 2016 with the aim of creating a sense of belonging to the european project among young people. the aim of the programme is to promote the value of solidarity through the involvement of young people in voluntary activities, particularly in our local communities. the important objective of this programme does not, however, have the financial support it deserves: the budget of 1.26 billion will certainly not be sufficient to achieve the objectives of the programme. the european union should show more consistency between the objectives it sets and the financial support it provides to achieve them. voluntary associations, which invest their time every day in helping others, deserve real recognition not only in words but also in concrete and effective actions. i take this opportunity to thank parliament for the work these volunteers do for our society and for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and the whole negotiating team for the work they have done and for the good result. the european solidarity corps has proven to be an important tool for the non-profit sector since its launch in 2016 and has seen a very successful participation, demonstrating that many young people want to engage in solidarity activities and how solidarity is truly one of the founding values of the european union. this year it will also have a major new component dedicated to humanitarian volunteering, an opportunity which will allow further support for the union's efforts to address humanitarian challenges around the world. i am particularly pleased that parliament has succeeded in extending this possibility to young people under 35 with useful skills in the humanitarian field and in achieving greater flexibility for the budget devoted to this part of the programme. a programme such as the solidarity corps, especially in this time of crisis, is a significant signal from europe and an important step towards building european citizenship.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my premise is that i too agree to a derogation from the trips/wto agreements and therefore to a temporary liberalisation of these patents, which is also a matter of licences. very good . we've spent a lot of public money to get this done, and the profits have been made by the drug companies, so, given the circumstances, we can very well go in a new direction. but we must not make fun of people. you can't just improvise the production capacity, and the cost of patents is just one of the complexities of getting a vaccine into production. but here, what's right for me is right and we can move forward. we have several moments at the international level: the g20 on health, which will be held in rome on friday; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. the european union, which before this crisis, and you, commissioner, know this very well, was asking the member states to cut health expenditure drastically, and the european union, which has concluded contracts on which we have been asking for clarification since january and for which we have no answers. well, i hope that these international moments of comparison are also an opportunity to clarify and ask someone what happened in wuhan and i also hope that there is less hypocrisy about africa, because today someone says that he wants to do this to give african citizens the chance to get vaccinated: but i see athens, rome and madrid left alone as african citizens seek a solution to their problems by migrating clandestinely to europe. so let us start with a strategy for africa that is serious and concrete.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of an unprecedented health crisis, a temporary sharing of patented technologies, as well as of knowledge, data and resources, especially in developing countries with structural shortcomings in medical supplies, can help to achieve global health security. a patent suspension which is limited in time and which recognises a fair contribution to the grantors would not discourage producers. however, we must bear in mind that patent liberalisation is not in itself sufficient to guarantee safety and production capacity. our priority must be to concentrate on european and national production plans, which must be based on the most advanced technology and a suitable distribution chain: it's the only way to expand the supply. in conclusion, while it is certainly appropriate to consider liberalizing intellectual property rights, other more useful and urgent actions must be given priority, such as increasing vaccine production capacity in europe and providing as much support as possible for research, also taking into account the variants. if we are to ensure that vaccines reach everyone quickly, including low-income countries that are not yet able to administer them, we must adopt truly cooperative strategies and plan health aid that involves the entire international community. covid will not be defeated completely unless it is defeated everywhere and with the contribution of everyone, in a common strategy that is however harmonious and fair.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my solidarity goes first of all to the czech colleagues in the cont committee, who, together with mrs hohlmeier, have been at the forefront of the conflict of interest of the prime minister of the czech republic. they are the reason parliament is dealing with this problem, which is why they have been attacked and threatened in their own country. let us not forget the statements of prime minister babis, who said that 'mr zdechovský and mr peksa are great traitors, because they are czech citizens in the european parliament and must fight for the interests of the czech republic'. anyone who raises problems within the member states, anyone who complains that things are not going well, cannot be considered a traitor to his own country, but an ally of all european citizens. parliament cannot tolerate these attacks, just as it cannot tolerate the personal use of funds. all states must have a serious conflict of interest law: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, artificial intelligence is one of the most important challenges of our time. the development of european digital technologies and infrastructure must enable europe to be competitive and reduce its dependence on supplies from non-eu countries such as china. but at the same time, we need to have a reliable and secure legislative framework that regulates the impact that ai can have on everyone's rights, from personal data protection to security: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. in the libe committee we have opted for an anthropocentric approach, ensuring that reference is always made to a traditional subject, whether physical or legal. artificial intelligence will be the protagonist of a future that is closer than we can imagine, partly already present in our society. it is for us to decide what role to give her.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased with the final result. the text is pragmatically moving in the right direction towards creating a digital market in the union, including a track of regulation in the use of artificial intelligence. the completion of the digital internal market is one of the best ways to ensure that the full potential of new technologies is realised. a functioning digital internal market is essential to support smes in their digital transformation. the text strikes a good balance between the needs of smes, which will be able to expand their business thanks to the quantity and good quality of data at their disposal, and the rights of consumers. the obligation to inform the consumer that he is interacting with an artificial intelligence system is fundamental; this will help to protect the consumer and make him feel more protected, thus increasing his confidence in these systems. trust is built when you feel protected. the attention paid to people with disabilities is also welcome, with a call for the european accessibility act to be implemented without delay to ensure effective inclusion. one key point remains unchanged: we must ensure effective human control over decision-making, because we cannot let machines dominate us. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve an active data market, as indicated in the first part of the report, we must ensure a high level of control with clear and balanced rules. as a shadow rapporteur on the itre committee on the data governance act, i have been looking into the issue of data accessibility for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which find it difficult to have the same opportunities as large enterprises, a concept that was reiterated earlier by the commissioner. we must make small businesses more competitive and prevent european start-ups, which may have been created with the support of the framework programmes for research and innovation, from turning to markets in third countries. the lack of high quality or under-utilization of data would make it impossible for micro and small enterprises to expand and would slow down the digital transition, with clear damage across the supply chain in europe. we reiterate our call for caution and progressiveness in the choice of applications of artificial intelligence and for only the safest to be allowed.
president, commissioner, the road to the green deal is paved, but there are still many obstacles on that road. think of mega-investments in the fossil fuel industry, like here in belgium in the port of antwerp. it is often ngos and citizens who denounce this kind of misconduct and it is essential that they are given every opportunity to challenge polluting projects. i am glad that we in parliament want to extend the right of citizens to have access here, but it is equally important that the member states do the same. and that's where the shoe fits. we see systematic problems in many member states. this is according to a 2019 report. in flanders, they want to turn back the clock. minister demir wants to make it harder to appeal environmental permits. only those who can prove self-interest should be allowed to do so. but tell me, how can you demonstrate self-interest when, for example, a forest clearing is taking place in a forest? do people live there? self-interest is hard to ... in flanders there are many examples of the courts reprimanding the government for errors in permits. as many as 65% of these decisions are destroyed. that does indicate some serious problems. the commission is clear that access to justice in those member states is essential to safeguard the european system of legal protection. i therefore call on the commission to take action against flanders or member states which want to silence their own citizens when they want to protect the environment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have always been at the forefront of environmental protection and i work at the international level and, of course, at the local level, so i am pleased with this regulation from this point of view. but i would like to draw attention to a matter which i think is quite worrying, namely the democratic process, because the fact that the aarhus regulation gives special powers to ngos is, in my view, profoundly undemocratic. what message do we want to send to the citizens of europe? that 350 million and the votes cast by the members of parliament here are worth less than an ngo with 5 or 10 thousand members? this, in my view, is truly outrageous, unconstitutional and really should be reviewed.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every day our european citizens, our institutions and our productive sectors are subject to cyberattacks which cause enormous damage. the member states and europe are increasing their commitment to this and we all hope that the new measures put in place will serve to improve our response. but the point is, answering is no longer enough. if we simply defend ourselves in this competition, we risk being marginalised. in the face of such transnational challenges, we hear constantly about the need for more collaboration. but while the european union is indeed open and cooperative with its allies, first and foremost nato and the united states, it is sad to see that other countries are not. for years, europe and china have been discussing cyberspace, but good intentions are no longer enough: we expected beijing to cooperate, even in the face of the pandemic, but in return we received misinformation and lack of transparency. we have always called for respect for information and intellectual property: but attacks and infiltration and espionage operations are multiplying against our businesses and our governments. we have also called for greater protection in trade to enhance our production and protect consumers: but in response we have suffered boycotts and campaigns against european products. in this fragile scenario, where our economy is languishing while china's has already started to recover, citizens are asking us for answers: but let us remember that without technology management and data control, we risk being left behind in a quiet and insidious global competition, but not less dangerous.
in the name of the id group. mr president, madam secretary of state, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my premise is that the concerns expressed in the resolutions we are voting on today are my own, absolutely. we have decided to set ourselves very high standards, with a complex system of rules but to protect users and citizens, in this case the network, but i do not feel entirely convinced to point the finger only at third countries such as great britain and the united states, when i see that we have extreme difficulties in applying the principles of the data protection regulation also within the european union, because, incidentally, probably attracted by gaelic culture and a beautiful island, the web giants have chosen to be based in europe in ireland. but what is the irish data protection authority doing? it answers and resolves only 7 out of 10 000 complaints from citizens across europe. so a positive example happened in my country, where the italian privacy guarantor used article 66 of the gdpr, the one for the exceptional circumstances procedures, and enforced a rule that we have a chinese social network that concluded contracts with children under the age of 13 and the situation was resolved efficiently. germany is also following this example. what concerns me, therefore, and it would be a pity not to take this opportunity to speak about this debate - i also asked for this in a question a few days ago - is to implement the application of the rules within the european union, because if citizens appeal but these appeals are not pursued, it is useless for us to set such high standards.
in the name of the id group. it is a shame that europe does not speak out against the ethnic and religious cleansing of christian armenia, which is being attacked by the islamists of azerbaijan and turkey. about two hundred armenian soldiers kidnapped and not returned; elderly people tortured; thousands of houses devastated; dozens of churches demolished and desecrated; thousands of tombstones and graves destroyed. the crimes against humanity, with the mutilation and beheading of soldiers and civilians, and the systematic destruction of christian monuments testify to the fanaticism of the aggressors. the leader of azerbaijan has achieved a macabre feat that no one has attempted before: established the trophy park, a veritable official museum of hate, with the helmets of the slain armenian soldiers and wax mannequins. it is a pity that today in europe more is said about islamophobia than about persecuted christians. it is sad to see the european institutions bending to erdoğan, who still does not recognize the armenian genocide, not to mention that he has used this war to show his strength. europe is warned: the silence about what is happening in those lands is yet another sign of an increasingly evident submission. it is a shame that we have been silent about the destruction of cultural and religious heritage and the trampling of european civilization.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, haiti is a very poor country, plagued by natural disasters and pandemics, most recently covid. but the social and political situation is no less serious: the level of violence and impunity in the country, which is being held hostage by armed groups, some of which enjoy the protection of president moïse, is worrying. it is important that the european union exercises its diplomatic power of persuasion, together with the international community and the new american presidency, to stop the escalation of violence and the democratic drift that the country has embarked upon. we must take a clear and firm stand against the attempt to revise the constitutional charter of haiti, which aims to centralize the executive powers of president moïse. it is important that new elections be guaranteed to safeguard the efforts made so far to establish democracy. the european union must continue to maintain its economic support in the country but must demand respect for fundamental rights.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this is not a good time for the fruit and vegetable and wine sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as regards the wine sector, frost affected early varieties in the pordenone lowland area which had already begun to germinate, such as the glera and chardonnay grape varieties; in the fruit and vegetable sector, the most affected species are kiwifruit and asparagus, which have been almost completely destroyed. unfortunately, the situation is no different in veneto, where kiwi production has been reduced to zero in the province of verona and vicentino cherries have been seriously damaged, as have horticultural crops and asparagus between padua and venice. these are just some of the situations in the north-east of italy, and according to the national trade associations, the damage amounts to one billion euros in italy alone and therefore extraordinary intervention is needed. the commission has also received information from the italian authorities that the italian authorities have not yet received any information on the export of wine to the union. and we know, we remembered, the commitment of farmers during the pandemic. to help the sector, it is necessary to analyse the difficulties faced by farmers in managing their risks properly and what is needed to have a suitable insurance system: the legislation considers late frost insurance, so the regions cannot help farmers financially. the regions, however, need flexibility and ad hoc instruments as soon as possible to mitigate the losses caused by frost, and joint action at national and community level is needed to launch extraordinary instruments. research could also be of great help with concrete and scientific answers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new breeding techniques are not used in the same way as the old ones, and that the new breeding techniques are not used in the same way as the old ones. but we can already apply agronomic techniques and instruments, such as proper irrigation systems to protect flowers and plants, which must be given priority in rural development investments. this would serve to protect crops from frost and give substance to the sustainability system with the right resources. water is for the fields, not for watering the wine. i hope, commissioner, that this year colleagues will be careful to avoid another budgetary change whereby funds from the agricultural chapters are diverted to other purposes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the word innovation is certainly the word that everyone agrees on in europe. innovation in health, in transport and also in agriculture. unfortunately, however, innovation cannot prevent damage to crops, with the resulting costs that are not fully borne by the member states or the european union. i say to all of you, invest year after year and share the innovative advances for farming. all this will help farmers and, above all, prevent a two-day frost from bringing whole agricultural chains to their knees. however, the goodness of european products is being undermined not only by climate change but also by europe itself, which suggests adding water to wine or putting on the market products that have nothing to do with taste and health, in short, with the mediterranean diet. the frosts of april 2021 caused millions of euros in damage to agriculture: in italy, even after a long period of drought, the production of orchards from apricots to peaches, from strawberries to kiwifruit, and vegetables has suffered serious damage. just think, in abruzzo, temperatures have reached minus 22 degrees in less than 24 hours. it was a disaster! in the south, damage was mainly in puglia, in the areas of the capitanata and murgia. requests for help are coming from all over. we need speed in the stands. the commission has also proposed that the aid be increased to the production of wines such as lambrusco, sangiovese, chardonnay and muscat. so innovation is, but it's shared and immediate. everyone, from brussels to the regions, must do their part.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, welcome back to the house. just a few months ago, the plenary voted overwhelmingly in favour of my own-initiative report, in which we tried to come up with some good ideas to help the world of european small and mediumsized enterprises get back on its feet after the pandemic. but now we must move from words to deeds. the paper i was a rapporteur on, for example, tells us that in the pre-covid era, there were three times as many businesses in the united states that were expanding as there were in europe. this is not to say that brussels is to blame, but it should certainly make us think that some of the recipes that have been adopted in the past may not have been optimal, may not have helped the entrepreneur. on the subject of bureaucracy, i hope that there is some recognition that for long periods the european commission has been experiencing phases of legislative neurosis. but, gentlemen, let's face it, the red tape is expensive. a craftsman, a small entrepreneur, objectively struggles to keep up with a regulatory environment that changes day by day. so welcome simplification, welcome, commissioner, the principle of one in, one out, but let these people work. as far as the credit sector is concerned, if the banks don't go back to being banks, we're finished. we must reflect on the single supervision and its consequences and, above all, we must avoid the banks being forced to give up slightly impaired loans which, with a little patience, small businesses might be able to repay. as far as the climate and the environment are concerned, i realise that they are the most divisive issues in this house. i am amazed that despite an unprecedented recession, no one, i mean no one, has considered whether very ambitious targets, the result of rules written before covid, are still feasible with these timelines, or whether on the contrary the roadmap needs to be revised. i spoke about it last year in connection with the single-use plastics directive, and i was accused of heresy. so let's have clean air, let's have clean water, we all want to do that, but without astronomical investments and above all without the sacrifice of those who work, these goals cannot be achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, unfortunately we only think of smes when we need them. during the pandemic, in fact, with great effort and sacrifice smes have kept italy and europe standing. and now that we're coming out of the health emergency, they're still the ones who have to shoulder the burden of the economic recovery. i wonder where europe stood when it came to putting in place targeted policies to strengthen the sme system. plastic tax, green deal, nutriscore are all measures that are hurting and not supporting our entrepreneurial fabric. if we exclude the dossier brought to this house by the league, there is still no action plan for this strategic sector. in the meantime, smes are being burdened with new european charges, such as the plastic tax. they are asked to make rapid progress in digital innovation, but at the same time they are held back by an archaic and complex bureaucracy. they are expected to adapt to the green transition, but at the same time they are expected to remain competitive in markets dominated by commercial giants who are not polluting the environment. to these contradictions is added a new emergency: the raw materials. essential to manufacturing and the green and digital transition, they've become elusive and prohibitively expensive. europe has been tied to china for its supplies, unable to plan its own needs and unable to defend its economic interests. unfortunately, the smes, the cinderella of community policies, to whom, paradoxically, the salvation and future of europe is entrusted, will once again pay the price for these mistakes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my view the european strategy for small and mediumsized enterprises must be based on four main objectives: investment, including the creation of conditions for access to it to be a reality for all; innovation, as a facilitator of economic recovery and adaptation to the dual transition to green and digital; the internal market, including the digital internal market - we need a cohesive internal market without fragmentation; and, finally, the fight against red tape and the reduction of administrative costs for businesses. on this last point, since the epp group's ambition is to reduce these burdens on small and mediumsized enterprises by at least 30%, i ask the european commission: what will be done to make this simplification of procedures a reality in the legislative packages on artificial intelligence and on digital services and markets that are now under consideration?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, small and mediumsized enterprises are the economic lungs of our countries. in france, there are more than three million of them, and they account for more than 80% of jobs. and yet, we are constantly harassed: untenable social charges, flimsy administration, violent and unfair taxation with the little ones and so complacent with the fat ones. the european union is pushing our nations into unbridled free trade and is subjecting our companies to unfair competition from multinational companies. after the disastrous consequences of the european union's health and economic choices, financial arrangements will unfortunately not be enough to save many of them from bankruptcy. and while the pandemic has accelerated a shift in society in favour of multinationals, leading to the systematic disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises, it must not lead us into an irreversible process of globalisation and social change that we reject. localism, short circuits and national preference for public procurement are all solutions which must be urgently put in place to overcome the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, improving the way the european union legislates and ensuring that legislation better serves citizens and businesses is a necessary and indispensable process, especially in the difficult times we are in. for too long, there has been a perception of a considerable distance between legislators and citizens, making many laws appear to have been passed from above, without taking due account of the real needs of society and the production system. i therefore welcome the commissioner's reference to the implementation of the better regulation agenda. i hope, however, that this is not just talk, because the better regulation agenda will ensure the quality of regulation through a more flexible consultation system, a reduction of the burden on citizens and businesses that have suffered too much, compensating for new burdens by removing equivalent ones in the same sector, and finally a long-term approach rather than a short- and medium-term one.
in writing. microenterprises play a key role in the european economy and even more so in the economy of certain member states such as italy. this is why europe aims to be attractive for small business start-ups, growth and expansion, by supporting the transition to sustainability and digitalisation, reducing regulatory burdens and improving market access and financing. however, due to their peculiar characteristics, microenterprises have been the most affected by the 2020-2021 covid-19 crisis and the figures for the decline in turnover, as well as the abandonment or downsizing of planned investments are worrying: the eu commission itself states that it is unlikely that the value added of smes will return to 2019 levels by the end of 2021. a formal update of the "sme strategy for a sustainable and digital europe" presented in march 2020 that takes into account the impact of the covid-19 pandemic and the changed economic and international framework conditions no longer seems to be postponed. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the union industry in the light of the experience gained in the implementation of the measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's biodiversity strategy for 2030 is a plan to encourage the transition to more sustainable agriculture. the measures proposed by the commission must not become new burdens for our farmers. the objective of reserving at least 25% of agricultural land for organic farming by 2030 does not take account of the territorial realities and the characteristics of our farms. the choice of this type of production should be a free choice for our farmers and not a tax which would be particularly penalising for smaller farms. it is also essential to take account of the diversity of national and regional agricultural systems and their vulnerability to adverse climatic conditions, such as the recent severe damage to agriculture in the veneto and friuli-venezia giulia regions. the transition to more sustainable farming systems must not be an obligation but a gradual choice supported by adequate and practical economic support for our farmers. we do not accept the impositions of brussels. our agriculture must be helped and not penalized. biodiversity, yes, but with reasonable timing and methods.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures from the world tourism organisation are pitiless. in 2020, europe lost 70% of arrivals from abroad, putting 100-120 million jobs at risk, and tourism businesses saw a decline in turnover of over 37% between the summers of 2019 and 2020. we can't waste any more time. it is now time for citizens to decide where they will spend their holidays. we can't afford to lose another summer. and the european digital covid-19 certificate will become a reality as soon as possible. tourism and mobility in general are strategic sectors for the economies of our countries. this is a first step towards a gradual return to normalcy. the positive thing is that the negotiations have taken up what we have been saying for a long time: everyone will be free to choose whether to request it or not. we believe that freedom is a fundamental principle that must be defended at all times and in all circumstances. the return to normal also means that the certificate will be a temporary and extraordinary measure pending the restoration of conditions for full freedom of movement. the unvaccinated will be able to travel in europe as well as those who have been vaccinated, with a simple negative swab. we must therefore work to prevent any discrimination by ensuring that tampons are available at a reasonable cost. this is an important test bed for european policy. to the businesses and the tourism workers i say: we are here!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rrf system provides for the possibility of using 312.5 billion in subsidies for those member states which so request. however, it is well known that the commission has no own resources and the treaties expressly forbid expenditure not covered by revenue in advance, so that exceptionally it relies on the markets to raise them by issuing bonds which will have to be repaid both in capital and interest. i would like to express my doubts about the ability of the member states using these financial flows to raise funds exclusively through so-called 'own resources', i.e. by imposing new taxes to meet the commitments made by the commission in the form of bonds, especially since most of these countries have opted for the application of subsidies alone in their national recovery and resilience plans. if my forecasts prove correct, how will the commission meet its commitments? by further increasing the tax burden in the process?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of the pnrrs submitted so far shows that only a few member states have planned to use the loan quota, and only for 166 billion. the most logical reason is that the implementing regulation contains cross-compliance which is considered to be disproportionate to the objectives. the commission has also proposed that the commission should adopt a new methodology for the calculation of the annual gni-based own resource for the period from 1 january 2019 to 31 december 2020 in order to ensure that the gni-based own resource is used in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the union's macro-financial assistance. the choice of the "core" countries, such as germany, france, spain, belgium, the netherlands, austria and others, not to require the loan quota has as a further key to read the stringent usage constraints provided for in the next generation eu agenda. in fact, because of their investment type not tailored to the real needs of post-pandemic growth, they do not represent enough appeal to be considered cost-effective to use. this has led many countries to raise funds independently on the financial markets by issuing government bonds directly, without the above conditions, at rates higher by a few dozen basis points, which is also possible thanks to the ecb's action with the pepp programme. i would like to conclude by reminding you that it has been exactly 376 days since the next generation programme was announced, and yet not a penny has been seen, while throughout the rest of the world rivers of resources have already been poured into aid like never before in history.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the hijacking of a ryanair flight to allow the arrest of political opponent roman protasevich and his partner sofia sapega seems to be taken from a hollywood movie. unfortunately, this is yet another example of repression by an illiberal government such as lukashenko's. in this situation russia has lost a historic opportunity to distance itself from an increasingly unthinkable ally. the friendly meeting in sochi between putin and lukashenko makes moscow's position uncomfortable given the misdeeds of the belarusian dictator. but there's another actor in this scene, who's too little talked about: china. russia and china are missing from the list of nations that have not condemned the hijacking of the plane at the un security council. for beijing, belarus is a strategic corridor within the silk road, the political-commercial penetration route used as a key by the chinese communist party. and by the way, just a few days ago, china, through its ambassador in minsk, praised the belarusian government, not forgetting that, amidst the street protests, xi jinping was the first foreign president to congratulate lukashenko on winning the highly contested 2020 elections. belarus is china's gateway to central europe, and trade relations between the two countries are steadily increasing, while lithuania, which has understood what is behind the silk road, has left the contact group between china and central and eastern european countries. in addition to blocking flights from belarus, which is a bold and decisive move, the european union should block chinese train convoys coming from belarus. it would send a very strong signal to the dictator in minsk and his chinese supporters.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the un, people have a common opinion. the un is seen as a hyper-bureaucratic cart that burns $6 billion for institutional expenditure and almost $30 billion a year for the costs of the various agencies. is it supposed to be about settling disputes? she hasn't done that in years. in fact, she's more and more addicted to crossed veins. should it intervene where there is violence and war? it is no longer doing so, leaving many people to their fate. you talk about defending human rights, but the un is accepting as members an increasing number of non-democratic countries which commit flagrant violations of individual freedoms, and in particular religious freedoms. we have reached the paradox that in the un human rights council there are countries like china, cuba and pakistan. can you believe that? the un proposed the useless global compact on migration, but then it is totally absent in the management of reception. i mean, it's more and more like a propaganda organization. it is enough to think of the recent declaration by its secretary-general, who spoke of a 'global epidemic of islamophobia', when there are millions of christians throughout the world who are being killed and persecuted, but who are not being mentioned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the agreement on the new european social fund plus brings together several instruments which i dealt with in the empl committee, including the programme to tackle the problem of youth unemployment, the programme to tackle child poverty and the european fund for the poor. under the agreement, eu countries where the number of children at high risk of poverty is higher than the eu average will have to spend at least 5% of the fund's resources on measures to help combat child poverty. in countries where the number of young people who are not currently working, studying or training is higher than the eu average, 12.5% of the fund will have to be spent on combating youth unemployment. parliament has negotiated to have a budget dedicated to the fight against extreme poverty in each member state. at least 3% of the resources will have to be spent on those who need it most, providing basic material assistance or addressing material deprivation. given that the new european social fund plus will thus have a financial envelope of eur 88 billion, 100 billion in current prices, we hope that national governments will now be able to identify correctly the beneficiaries of the fund and present the spending priorities in the national operational plans. the task of the salvini league will always be to stimulate the process. we are comforted by the fact that oftentimes history outside parliament gives us back the reason that is denied us in this house. we know how to govern, we show it every day and we are always among the people, and the people want the funds to be used in the right way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have returned to the plenary in strasbourg and the indications from our citizens are clear. people want to start again, young people want answers and children deserve a better future. almost one in five young people around the world have stopped working since the start of the pandemic. within the borders of the european union we have 15 million people at risk of poverty, including 5 million children. then welcome an instrument like the new european social fund plus which will make it possible to allocate some eur 90 billion to the member states. money to be spent on creating new job opportunities to break the cycle of poverty and invest in both the early years and the training of our young people for the world of work. money that, as we have strongly requested, can be earmarked to deal with exceptional circumstances such as the pandemic. we would have liked more flexibility for the member states, but overall the proposal we have come up with is a sensible one. if we really want to get things started again, we cannot forget the most vulnerable people: the children, the young and the poor of europe.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, adaptation and mitigation: these are the concepts that should guide future measures to counter the effects of climate change. making european fisheries and aquaculture more resilient requires a paradigm shift, from looking at the fisheries sector as the sole culprit for the depletion and pollution of the seas to understanding that fishermen and aquaculturists are among the first victims and should be involved in proposing solutions for the basin. the increase in water temperature and other environmental factors are contributing to phenomena that alter the balance of fish stocks. the evidence is the many jellyfish, the mucilage, and the invasion of the blue crab in the adriatic sea. it is a chain effect that has repercussions on native species, aquaculture and fisheries, processing, trade, community livelihoods, food security. an institutional response that addresses these needs in a flexible and rapid manner is needed. this is the only way to increase the environmental, economic and social resilience of all stakeholders and reduce their vulnerability. the introduction of ever more restrictive measures on fishing, such as those which are worrying the fishermen of the mediterranean, is nothing but a waste of energy, a breeding ground for distrust of the institutions and a source of tension and protest. on 12 june, italian fishermen will stop fishing to say enough is enough to the continuing restrictions. i appeal to commissioner sinkevičius: the commission is therefore proposing that the european parliament should visit our ports, review the management plans as soon as possible and adapt them to socioeconomic needs before it is too late. the eu cannot damage a strategic sector such as fisheries any longer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2050 is a key date for our future and for our children's future, because by 2050 we must be good enough to zero in on the damage of climate change and go back and fix the mistakes that have been made. fishing and aquaculture play a key role in ensuring that the new society lives in harmony with the sea and therefore with the planet, and is resilient and willing to work. our shipping companies have suffered the abandonment of young people because the sector has been neglected, making things worse from an economic and environmental point of view, as the culture of caring for the sea has been lost. pollution, illegal fishing and poorly managed shipping did the rest. on this oceans day, i ask you: what concrete action does the commission intend to take? when will you send a proposal to parliament? the year 2050 is not waiting, it is just around the corner, and we need legally binding rules, a holistic approach to the sea and the actors that exploit it, not just in terms of fisheries, and a concrete response to the depletion of fisheries resources and the consequent depopulation of local coastal communities. saving and rejuvenating the marine environment is the highest form of protection and resilience possible. so i ask the commission not to make a mistake because we cannot afford it any longer and we will not get a second chance.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the effects of climate change on fishermen, those who have to feed their families in the real world must be looking at this with puzzled eyes. if these upheavals are a threat to our fishermen, then we cannot ignore the immediate and disastrous consequences of offshore wind farms, both for their commercial activity and for the balance of our oceans. this economic sector is systematically sacrificed on the altar of the interests of international trade, often under the cover of an ecological hoax. instead, attack the factory ships and other 'scrombus' that are plundering the fauna and flora of our seas for the benefit of unscrupulous multinationals. if adapting the fisheries sector to the demands of climate change means imposing more rules, more regulations, more directives, inspections and policing of all kinds, for us it means no. our small-scale fishermen are the guardians of our oceans, they contribute to our food sovereignty. they are honest and sincere men and women who are fully aware of the need for reform in their profession, which must be done with them and not against them.
(mike's speech begins) ... also to consider the enormous impact that climate change is having on our seas and oceans. sea temperatures are rising, sea levels are rising, water is becoming more acidic, storms are becoming more violent, and plant and animal species are dying off. this debate is about how the fishing industry is being hit by climate change and ocean degradation. that's the world upside down. the fisheries sector itself is a major contributor to climate change and biodiversity loss. industrial fishing, and in particular bottom fishing, emits more co2 annually than all commercial aircraft worldwide combined. so the question is not how to protect fisheries against climate change. the question is: how do we protect the climate from fishing? and when will we stop the destructive fishing activities and overfishing of our oceans? i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, climate change is certainly one of the great challenges facing the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. rising water temperatures and ocean acidification have a direct impact on marine species. these disturbances have an impact on the management of union waters and resources and on the way of life of coastal communities. in this context, the common fisheries policy needs to evolve to support the fisheries and aquaculture sectors and promote measures to promote their adaptation. for example, the principle of relative stability, which has barely changed since its inception 40 years ago, does not take into account the impact of climate change on the distribution of species. if we add to this brexit and the landing obligation, it is very difficult to maintain the current key for the allocation of fishery resources for much longer. on the other hand, we must not forget that fishermen, shellfish farmers and the rest of the wider marine industry chain are not the cause of climate change but its victims. moreover, fisheries and aquaculture are strategic sectors and i would say our allies in the fight against climate change. indeed, fish is often referred to as the perfect protein. it's the animal protein with the lowest carbon footprint and the lowest environmental impact. as part of the fight against climate change we must encourage the consumption of seafood. it would also have a positive impact on health. in particular, all member states should follow the example of italy, france, poland and ireland and adopt a super-reduced rate of value added tax for fishery products. consuming fish, i repeat, is good for the planet and good for our health. i would like to conclude by warning that climate change should not be used as an excuse to impose more restrictive management measures and further cuts. any cuts would further increase our already high fish import figures. the union must promote a level playing field between the fleets of third countries and our fishing sector, which is the most sustainable in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is the greatest threat to the survival of our fisheries sector. the phenomena of overheating and acidification of the waters, far more than fishing activities, are threatening to bring to its knees the profitability of a sector which is the backbone of entire coastal communities in the mediterranean. it is clear that the problem is ultimately a social problem and as such must be addressed with specific responses to support, income and the right to work. the commission's response is as strong as the commission's response to the preservation of the environment and marine resources. in this connection, commissioner, how does the commission intend to deal with the possible collapse of our fisheries sector in the face of the challenges posed by climate change? what legislative measures do you propose in this respect to support the income and fishing activity of our fisheries sector?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, once again at the last european council europe buried its head in the sand, preferring not to deal with the issue of migrants. thanks to italy's initiative, an item has been put on the agenda for the next council and it is good that it is discussed, but it is not enough, we must act. for decades europe has debated, questioned and divided itself over how to deal with the issue of the century and the absolute scandal that follows. thousands of men, women and children die every year in the mediterranean sea, just a few miles from the beautiful shores of my sicily. the solution is already there and it is called solidarity and it is written in the charter of our treaties but not in reality, let us say it clearly. the first-country criterion is a slap in the face to the principle of solidarity between states and must be abolished immediately. it is not just italy, but all the member states that have to deal with the phenomenon of immigration together. so more means, more money, more men. strong action against the business of human trafficking and automatic and compulsory relocation of asylum seekers. the next european council must not become another sterile round table where everyone talks but nobody decides anything. we need concrete facts, we need to show by the facts that europe can change.
madam president, mr michel, the last european council concluded that the union - and i quote literally - will continue to work to increase global vaccine production capacity and that its objective is to contribute to the development of local manufacturing capacity. i'm all right. but what is the best way to achieve this - not in the short term, but within a reasonable timeframe? the suspension of patents in the context of the wto. how many pharmaceutical companies in the north knew how to make messenger rna vaccines just a year ago? i don't have one. so why should we assume that our pharmaceutical companies could learn to make these vaccines in a year and that the pharmaceutical companies in the south, if we shared intellectual property, would need more time? big pharma spokesmen say: "even if we suspend the patent, it will not help because the companies in the south will not have the capacity to manufacture the vaccine". if that were true, big pharma would have no reason to oppose the lifting of patents, they would have nothing to fear, because the companies in the south would not compete with them. this resistance is the best proof that there is a capacity to produce the vaccines not used today, the same in the north as in the south.
president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council. mrs von der leyen, i shall be addressing you directly immediately. in your speech today you have paid great attention to the responsibility which the european commission wants and will take on the international stage to ensure that everyone has access to vaccines. unfortunately, the way the commission is behaving in the world trade organisation by boycotting the negotiations on the abolition of patents is actually a way of behaving badly on the international stage. i'm actually very sorry about that. of course, the trips waiver is only one of the elements, but it is an important element. we have an important vote on that today. in the heart of european democracy, a vote will be taken on the temporary withdrawal of the trips waiver. i'll accept that result. i assume that the commission will also act on the result of that vote today.
my dear mrs. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, mr. michel, at the meeting on may 24 and 25, we discussed the provocative actions of russia, belarus, the subversion of the european union and the protection of human rights. of course, human rights must be protected, and political rights must be protected. but i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why you do not see the provocative actions of both russia and belarus in the western balkans, in serbia and in the republic of north macedonia. human rights, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be on the menu, we cannot protect some and not protect others. and i am therefore surprised and i do not understand how you do not see the policy led by the kremlin in skopje, for example, as a highly aggressive and extremely harmful anti-bulgarian policy. yesterday in skopje, a rally was held led by the leader of the opposition, which was aimed against the bulgarianisation and against the bulgarians. do i need to remind you what happens when in one country, the government and the opposition organize a rally against a neighboring country or against a neighboring ethnic community? it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to choose the european position in the balkans, which is the bulgarian one, and to understand that skopje's path to the european union passes through the implementation of the treaty on european union, the implementation of the good neighbourhood treaty with bulgaria and the break with the communist nomenclature and criminal past.
madam president, the lukashenka regime in belarus, with the support of putin's russia, is carrying out deliberate attacks against the peaceful people of belarus, and this is a matter of great concern to us all. the governing council strongly condemned the actions of belarus in the forced seizure of the aircraft and the threat to aviation safety and security, and the unlawful detention and apparent torture of a journalist and his girlfriend. we must be firm and united and indeed give a strong european response to the authoritarian lukashenka regime as it desperately tries to maintain power through force and terror. and this is not just a belarusian struggle for freedom, it is a struggle for our entire region. sanctions, including targeted economic sanctions against belarus, are more important than ever, and it is even more important to fight for the release of all political prisoners.
madam president! it reads that the council, and i quote: [p] condemns russia's unlawful, provocative and destructive actions against the eu, its member states and third countries. it reaffirms the eu's unity and solidarity with such acts and its support for the eastern partners. those are very beautiful words, but they're hard to believe. it is hard to believe in this unity and solidarity of the union at a time when the largest country in the union, which is not a threat, is about to complete a gas investment that will mean supplying the putin regime with billions of euros and increasing their influence throughout central europe. recently, putin said that ukraine must show good will to remain a transit country for russian gas, which reportedly caused consternation among german politicians. one german newspaper put it succinctly: "putin's orfeige für die bundesregierung" (putin's orpheus for the german government). i don't think the german government doesn't know what they're doing, doesn't realize the geopolitical significance of nord stream and putin's goals. one can only wonder why he's so willing to turn a cheek. my political group has proposed three times that we hold a debate here in parliament and pass a resolution on nord stream 2. it was rejected three times by the conference of presidents. we only had the green factions and the id. the motion was rejected by the epp, whose members are very passionate about further sanctions against russia and are outspoken in their criticism of putin. nord stream is a contradiction of the declaration made at the unity and solidarity council. it is necessary to state clearly who in europe is against this unity and solidarity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent council meeting has its own lights and shadows. it is certainly a positive step to try to tackle certain foreign policy issues with a strengthened common strategy and to do so by giving clear signals on sensitive issues, i am thinking first of all of belarus. but we must also stress that there are huge issues on which the council has chosen not to decide. i am referring to the need to ensure further maximum distribution of the vaccine in the global south, aware that what has been done so far is not enough and that decisions such as this one, among others, are needed to temporarily suspend patents. he also chose not to choose on immigration. it is embarrassing that there are no immediate answers for those who reach europe via the mediterranean or the balkan route. we need a european rescue mission, the redistribution of those who arrive and are to be welcomed, respect for human rights. it is not appropriate to give the spectacle of many member state governments turning the other way and of a european council conforming to them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the two major themes of the g7 this week have one thing in common. whether it is vaccine patents or taxes on corporations, the world's big men will have to decide whether to side with millions of citizens or defend the interests and profits of a very few. we are worried. biden proposes a 21% corporate tax rate, and europe says no, which is better at 15%, because they fear the reaction of their tax havens. biden is proposing to remove intellectual property from vaccine patents. and europe says no, that it's better to do something else, because it's afraid of the reaction of big pharma. we are concerned that europe may become the guardian of the house of the powerful instead of the beacon of democracy, rights and social justice in the world. the european countries should join the g7 and think of the common good. the world is watching.
madam president, i remember very well the first time i came here to the european parliament in brussels. it was a hot and sunny september day, just after the summer break. i came out of the metro and there were cars, buses, and people speaking all kinds of languages all around me. as i was walking towards the european parliament, it really looked like this ginormous beehive made out of concrete and glass. it was humming, it was full of life while, at the same time, many things actually seemed a little bit improvised and maybe even messy. i must be honest that probably this building taught me more about the european union than what i had previously learned in school in textbooks or infographics. because this parliament, with its many doors and corridors, all the different shapes and styles, the sheer massiveness of the place, the extensions and annexes that came with the time, even the grey carpet and the art pieces all around the house, really are a perfect metaphor of the european union because they show our diversity and, at the same time, show the imperfection and incompleteness of this project. but, just like this building, just like any other building, the european union needs, more than anything, a strong fundament – no single market, no freedom of movement, no erasmus without a common basis that we can all stand on. and this fundament is actually pretty clearly spelled out in the treaties in article 2: democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. but we all know that this fundament is under heavy attack. the basis that unites us all, the precondition for the existence of the european union, is being dismantled as we speak. but, instead of defending it, the european commission has been watching, monitoring and writing reports over the past years, without, i must say, obviously fully grasping the seriousness of the situation we are in and without seeing the urgent need to stabilise our common fundament because that needs action. now. the european parliament is ready to do what it takes in order to defend this common fundament and, if it takes pressure to make the commission do the same, pressure you will get.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law is a serious matter. it is the greatest achievement of european and western civilization. the end of a long and not easy journey. it cannot be used as a weapon of political battle. you do not want to reduce it to a tool for forcing people to vote for one party or another. today there is a majority of the centre-left that uses the rule of law against centre-right governments, which are found guilty of wanting to represent the values they believe in and to defend those for which they have been given a fully democratic mandate. tomorrow the majority in this house may change, but the wreckage of this unjust and violent attack on the self-determination of peoples will remain. the economic blackmail of the peoples of europe, even in the face of the consequences of the worst pandemic of the modern era, is a vile choice, which does not honour the founding fathers of this union, which does not honour our future together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today in this parliament we are talking about the rule of law. yesterday in italy, for the umpteenth time, a magistrate was subjected to precautionary measures because, according to the prosecution, he would have sold his office for enrichment and career by fixing the processes. in the face of hundreds of magistrates who carry out their role in silence and with dedication, a system of appointments has emerged in italy that is conditioned by representatives of political parties and by currents and cordas within the judiciary itself. there are important judicial offices where the head has been decided with this client system, where independent and free-thinking judges are put in a corner and are prevented from working. there are judgments that have been piloted thanks to this system, alleged lodges or business committees that would have affected the administration of the law, investigations omitted or archived on the basis of the assumption "favours for friends, law for others". i ask you colleagues: in this situation, can we speak of respect for the rule of law in italy?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, the ambitious objectives set at the porto summit are an important step in the development of a europe that is finally social, but they risk remaining statements of principle if we do not change the foundations of the union. the european semester mechanism needs to be revised because it does not take account of the social fabric of a country. the recent rejection by the european commission of the italian government's block on redundancies is a denial of the evidence of a pandemic and a failure to know the national realities. this incomprehensible assessment contradicts everything we have been discussing with the european commission for more than a year on the european measures to be taken to support employment of the most vulnerable people in the labour market. the european semester must therefore have real social and environmental objectives as well as economic ones, and the stability pact must be dissolved by budgetary constraints that are now outdated by history, otherwise the benefits of the next generation eu will be cancelled as soon as the safeguard clause is deactivated, thus giving us back an austerity europe that the european citizens are no longer willing to accept.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, albert einstein said: 'the only thing that is certain is that the world will be a better place if we are able to work together'. "computers are incredibly fast, accurate and stupid. men are incredibly slow, inaccurate and intelligent. and the combination of the two is an unstoppable force. " one thing is certain: computers rule our lives, and there are intelligent but criminal men who use stupid machines to threaten our security. news reports report cyber attacks that threaten to bring entire nations to their knees by hitting industrial logistics infrastructure. a recent study tells us that 2020 was a disastrous year for cybersecurity. every hour, there are between 5,000 and 10,000 cyberattacks. we must reflect on the importance of protecting our cyberspace, which is still largely dominated by non-european players. the european union's cybersecurity strategy needs to be based on a number of key elements, such as the development of advanced processing systems located within the union, internal management of sensitive data and analysis of data flows to the outside world from devices imported into the union. we will endeavour to improve the commission's proposals in this field, always having as a guiding principle the protection of the union's businesses and citizens, their freedom and their security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, europe is deluding itself that it is solving the problem of gender inequality with the anachronistic principle of the pink quota or with sterile nominalisms such as engineer, lawyer, minister. the emerging countries around us, on the other hand, are racing towards the future and are facing international competition in a pragmatic way, by enabling the mass incorporation of female talent into the technical and scientific professions. in neighbouring central asia, half of the total are stem graduates, 75% in burma alone. but china is spending 200 billion dollars a year on scientific research, and soon the number of chinese women scientists will explode. in europe, on the other hand, we are stuck at 36%, a figure that drops dramatically to 16% in italy. if we are not to fall behind not only in terms of equality but also in terms of technological and scientific progress, and therefore in terms of the economic and geopolitical challenges, we must intervene where the educational paths begin, by removing gender stereotypes and by training women for the professions of the future from primary school onwards. community studies say that we can achieve equal pay by 2050, with a 10% increase in gdp per capita in the european union. but all this on one condition: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing how the european citizens' initiative can be a decisive instrument for improving relations with the institutions and the lives of all citizens, and in this europe is a master of democracy. the "end the cage age" resolution that is a grassroots initiative gives us the opportunity to be the first in the world to ban cages and we have a duty to take it, also in light of what happened in the covid era in mink farms in denmark. clear and binding legal guidelines are therefore needed to protect farmers and agriculture by fully respecting animal welfare, as citizens demand, and by imposing this on european trading partners. i would remind you that the right2water directive, which was also the result of a very large popular petition, has not led to any clear and binding legislation for the member states after seven years, and public water remains a dream rather than a right. we need concrete action to stop caged animals as well as public water. we are showing that the eu is not just talking, but is capable of courageously changing the world and the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, socialist spain is right to put the army in front of 9 000 moroccan immigrants who have entered ceuta illegally. denmark, led by the social democrats, is blocking the arrival of immigrants, including asylum seekers, altogether. the united states of democrats clearly says no to new immigrants, and what do they do? they're closing the borders. unbridled immigration is an economic and social disaster, and many are realizing this. your hypocrisy and your welcome propaganda are a mockery of european citizens and of immigrants themselves. you deceive them with a better future in europe, which then turns out to be a nightmare, and we see it in our cities where the homeless and foreign criminals are multiplying. matteo salvini fought to defend the italian borders and now he is scandalously on trial. think about it, more than 15,000 immigrants have already arrived in italy this year alone. when salvini was there, at the same time, there were about 2,000. what is europe doing? he keeps leaving the border states. your stubborn goodness is a mirror of your failure. european solidarity is a giant lie. you shockingly applauded carola rackete. your immobility is a boon to the human traffickers. you should be ashamed of yourselves. and yet you give us propaganda about the positive value of immigration. these debates are useless, they are useless because then you do nothing to really counter illegal immigration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a stylistic exercise for the italian and european left. try replacing the name of sánchez with that of matteo salvini. spain: the sánchez government is sending the army to push back the migrants. 'we have already turned back 4,800 migrants who entered ceuta illegally,' mr sánchez told the spanish parliament on 19 may. 'we have the unequivocal support of the european union. "oh, yeah! sánchez can rightly exercise the right and the duty to defend the borders of his country with the support of the european union. where are those who were cheering for the conviction of matteo salvini for rejecting migrants? in this very house, do they have the courage and the consistency to condemn sánchez for the rejections? what about open arms, the spanish ngo that has so far been dumping migrants from us to italy? next time we'll ask the italian government to call sanchez and send them to spain. i really want to hear from the well-meaning leftists who are demanding that we take in the migrants brought to italy by spanish ngos. we are not afraid to support openly the action of the spanish government, even if it is left-wing. they defended the spanish borders and therefore also those of europe. we are not afraid to share statements by the vice president of the united states, the democrat kamala harris. they too, despite the proclamations, have finally decided to abandon the doctrine of open borders and announced that they will reject all migrants who attempt to cross the us border. we do not use double standards or convenient solidarity. can the left say the same?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in democratic societies non-governmental organizations play an essential role in accompanying, analysing and monitoring policy decision-making processes. in russia the activities of these organisations, including recently three german ngos, are considered undesirable and their freedom of association is arbitrarily restricted. this is a very, very serious matter. the european parliament has already condemned on many occasions what is happening in a country which is drifting towards authoritarianism. today, with the same force, we demand the release of andrei pivovarov and an end to all those criminal proceedings currently open against activists and human rights defenders. the european union must stand by those who, in such a difficult situation, are fighting for every space for democracy. they must be given concrete support, because their struggle and strength can bring about real change in the name of freedom of opinion and thought, in the name of the values of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! russia is increasingly pushing the boundaries of its hostile behaviour towards the european union and its member states. unfortunately, once again, our response is weak. the arrest of andrei piwowarov on board a polish plane is a signal that such events will happen more often, they will be more and more brazen, and their victims will eventually fall also our citizens. but should we be surprised? after all, not long ago, vladimir putin's assassins roamed the streets of european cities with impunity, killing political opponents. the completion of nord stream 2, the escalation of the situation in belarus, and the intensification of repression against the opposition in russia are all part of the same puzzle. ignoring this fact is a huge mistake, for which, as in the 1930s, poland and the baltic states will pay first, and then all of europe will have to pay the price.
i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! russia continues its course of confrontation with civil society not only inside the country but also outside. first, the arrest of andrei piwowarov on board a polish plane flying from st. petersburg to warsaw. then the designation of three german ngos as undesirable foreign organisations. this is how russia pays back its loyal allies, germany, with whom it is so determined to build nord stream 2. perhaps germany will finally stop pursuing this geopolitical project, which will surely strengthen putin's regime. it is worth noting, commissioner, that the implementation of nord stream 2 violates the eu principle of energy solidarity. so maybe the european commission will finally take action to stop this geopolitical project that violates the fundamental principles of the european union. it's time to face the facts. it is time to end the covert pro-russian policy in the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the 2015 russian federal law 129 on undesirable activities of foreign and international non-governmental organisations, and its later, even more oppressive forms, have led to an ever more violent crackdown on civil society in russia and now to the listing of three german ngos as undesirable organisations. international cooperation to any civil society actor is key. they report their government’s misdeeds and violent abuses to the world and, if they are cut off from the world, they themselves are vulnerable to violent abuse. oppressive regimes have become more open and brazen in their silencing of dissidents abroad. criminal states even hunt down dissidents abroad. the hijacking of a plane is a crime that can be prosecuted. so is limiting in any way the operation of the european civil society.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union has a longstanding and clear position on russia’s foreign agent law. the legislation goes against human rights and commitments, which russia has assumed under european and international human rights law, including the european convention on human rights of the council of europe. russia’s list of undesirable organisations is growing, including european ngos. this leaves russian civil society activists and knowledgeable and engaged experts and partners more isolated. the decision taken by the russian prosecutor general on 26 may to list three german ngos as undesirable organisations is the most recent example of the russian authorities’ disregard for a vibrant civil society. this decision ultimately harms the interests of russian people and possibilities for open and free dialogue. the european union has repeatedly condemned this foreign agent legislation and called on the russian authorities to repeal it. it is essential that russian citizens are able to exercise freedom of association, including the right to join and participate in non—governmental organisations, which promote the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. on 31 may, andrei pivovarov, a former executive director of open russia, was removed from a plane in st petersburg and detained for alleged violations of the law on so—called undesirable organisations. the eu has called on the russian authorities to immediately and unconditionally release him. this case is not an isolated incident, but confirms a continuous pattern of shrinking space for civil society, the opposition, critical voices and the independent media in russia. the european union fully supports the key role played by independent ngos in developing mutual understanding across borders. we will continue supporting russian human rights activists and civil society, as we do worldwide. we hear from those activists that our support is vital and greatly appreciated. we will keep monitoring developments in russia, holding the russian authorities to account when they do not respect the fundamental rights enshrined in its constitution and international conventions. we will insist on the need to respect the decisions of the strasbourg court and in general the council of europe conventions that anchor russia and the eu in democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended at 12.51 p.m.)
the second round of voting is now under way. the votes on the dossiers will be taken as indicated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:00. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4.30 p.m. the debate will resume at 2.30 p.m. with the oral question to the commission on autism and inclusive employment. (the sitting was suspended at 1.46 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on autism and inclusive employment by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, rosa estaràs ferragut, pierfrancesco majorino, jordi cañas, stefania zambelli, katrin langensiepen and josé gusmão, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000017/2021 b9-0017/2021) (2020/2585 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the european commission is committed to protecting and promoting the rights of persons with disabilities, including, of course, those on the autism spectrum. in doing so, we focus on areas where eu action can bring the highest added value, and we call on member states to take action in their areas of responsibility, in line with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. in addition, the european pillar of social rights recognises the right of persons with disabilities to equal treatment, and opportunities, and to support ensuring a life, and dignity, and participation in the labour market and in society. the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities, adopted by the commission in march, takes into account the diversity of disability, which is sometimes invisible. this is often the case for people on the autism spectrum. for them, full inclusion in society is not obvious. challenges are perpetrated by persistent negative stereotypes and prejudices. in some cases, discriminatory practices in the workplace create major obstacles for persons with autism. children on the autism spectrum struggle to find inclusive and accessible educational environments responding to their needs. what can the commission do to contribute to tackle these problems? the commission will present this coming year a package to improve labour market outcomes for persons with disabilities. this will help strengthen the capacities of public employment services, promote hiring perspectives, reasonable accommodation and vocational rehabilitation. persons with disabilities, including persons on the autism spectrum, are among those with a higher probability of being minimum wage or low wage earners. the commission has presented a proposal on adequate minimum wages to reduce wage inequalities and strengthen incentives to work, including for persons with disabilities. the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities will also provide accessible and inclusive education, starting from early childhood education and care, and teacher education systems. in addition, the european child guarantee will contribute to effective and free—of—cost access to key services, including childcare, healthcare and education for children in need and who have a disability. eu instruments such as the european social fund plus, the european regional and development fund, the recovery and resilience facility, the renovation wave and the technical support instrument will make an important contribution to de—institutionalisation, independent living and inclusion in the community. the commission will also foster disability—inclusive implementation of other funding instruments, such as erasmus+, investeu, and horizon europe. the citizens, equality, rights and values programme will support the work of organisations of persons with disabilities, including those focusing on autism. in relation to data collection and indicators, the commission intends to develop, at the latest by 2023, new disability indicators, supporting those in the eu social scoreboard and the sustainable development goals. we also call on member states to establish targets for increasing the employment rate of persons with disabilities. this will help achieve the 2030 employment target, proposed in the european pillar of social rights action plan and widely supported at the porto social summit. once formally endorsed by the council, the revised social scoreboard will reflect the situation in the member states, hopefully, as proposed by the commission, including the disability employment gap as a headline indicator. we also call on member states to set targets for the participation of adults with disabilities in learning. more detailed information and data on particular disabilities are available thanks to the work of eu—level organisations for persons with disabilities, supported by the european commission, including those focusing on autism. the concrete measures proposed in the strategy, and its intersectional approach, will help address the diverse situation of persons on the autism spectrum in synergy with other eu equality strategies. to that effect, we will continue to cooperate with the relevant stakeholders, such as autism—europe. this organisation, supported by the commission, released last december a report on the impact of covid—19 on autistic people and their families in europe. autism—europe also pays particular attention to the intersection of discrimination in employment and education, as demonstrated by their campaign ‘i can learn, i can work’. by supporting such organisations, the commission makes sure that persons with disabilities can share their views on eu policies to improve the situation, and take into account the specificities of certain disabilities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, lucio moderato, an italian psychotherapist who has devoted his life to the study of autism, used words that mean everything to me: "no two autism types are alike, and so there is no one-size-fits-all intervention to implement". i'm leaving here because i care about this concept. it means that we must look at the person, his uniqueness, his subjective condition, his needs. it was, after all, the one that urged us and urges us to make the un convention on the rights, i stress the rights, of persons with disabilities. you have to bet on the person, not lock them up, not contain them. "i will never lock up my son", said gianluca nicoletti, a writer and father of an autistic boy, who is fighting to make projects fully inclusive. we need to know that every time we, who have responsibilities, imagine that we are locking up fragility, we do it because we think we are solving our problem, not that of the town or the citizen with autism and their families, who need to be helped and supported, accompanied. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be able to accept it. we have this huge responsibility and let's face it: in our enlightened europe, there are too many countries where families dealing with autism feel left out. from our school days, to our leisure time, to our workplace, we have to bet on two things: the commission's proposal is to provide a framework for the development of a european information society, to provide reliable reference points, quality public services and to build broad-based policies that can enhance the capacities of citizens. in particular, on the question of employment inclusion, we must start from a principle: people with autism who can work have the sacred right to do real, dignified work and not small, ghettoized, marginal occupations. we know that there are very nice stories of real work, of quality, of places where everyone can be well, but they cannot be drops in the ocean, exceptions that confirm the rule. today, in europe, about 5 million people are on the autism spectrum. many of them are discriminated against, including in the world of work, and poverty, social exclusion and school dropout are real risks on the agenda. we are in the midst of post-pandemic reconstruction and this house was instrumental in the conception and adoption of the next generation eu. so those resources, along with the others, must also go to support projects that make us make a real leap of quality in the whole area of social inclusion. the european commission and the member states therefore have a huge amount of work to do in the name of human rights and human dignity, not behind their backs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech today i want to give voice to lorenzo, nicolò, francesca, giuseppe and nico and all the other young people i have had the chance to meet in recent months, in the course of a campaign i have launched in the hearing of associations and families of people with autism spectrum disorders. we are fighting together above all to ensure that adults are protected and cared for, because, unfortunately, once they reach old age they become invisible and live in a state of total isolation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new technologies are used in the community. in the context of job placement, we call for individual design, which respects the individual abilities and inclinations of each person. but above all, we believe that we need a cultural revolution, i repeat, a cultural revolution, to educate about individual difference. let us remember that autism is not a world apart, but it is part of this world. we give people with autism the opportunity they deserve to achieve. it's our duty!
in writing. autism is a very complex form of disability, affecting about 5 million people in europe alone. in italy, the data on people on the autism spectrum is unfortunately growing: in fact, it is estimated that there are between 300 and 500 thousand people with autism in italy, with numbers almost double those of 12 years ago. the increase in people on the autism spectrum is accompanied by alarming data related to their employment levels. their employment rate is less than 10%, which is far below the employment levels of people with disabilities, which are 47%, and 72% of people without disabilities. it is unacceptable that these people should suffer double discrimination because they are excluded from the world of work. equally worrying is the fact that the few people employed are working in precarious and underpaid jobs. this only increases the social discomfort of this category of people, condemning them to new and multiple discriminations in their daily lives. it is therefore of the utmost urgency that the commission should act on this. ensuring employment, decent work and prospects for personal development for people with autism are commitments that can no longer be postponed.
in writing. after years of announcements, we are here again to discuss the malta agreements and the relocation of migrants. europe has been talking for years about solidarity and redistribution mechanisms, but despite the many promises and fine words, the data confirm that italy is still the one that has to host them, without europe being able to find a final solution. since the beginning of the year, 18 thousand illegal migrants have landed in italy, compared to 2000 in 2019, when matteo salvini was minister. in the last month, only 0.3% of these migrants were redistributed to other european countries, just 20 people! the european union is not a party to the treaty. the socialist governments of spain and denmark have decided to close their borders to illegal immigrants, and germany refuses to accept immigrants from italy because the number of arrivals does not justify german aid. it is time to say enough of this attitude towards italy: we cannot be the refugee camp of europe. the voluntary relocation has proved a disaster, as predicted. stopping illegal immigration, as minister salvini did, is the only solution to this emergency.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was also missing the fact that i was also to blame for the failure of the negotiations between the european union and switzerland, because it is always the fault of the populists wherever they are to be seen. i would remind my colleagues that there must always be two people to argue, so i have obviously not yet heard a word of reproach against the european commission from the commissioner or from those who preceded me, because perhaps the european commission may also have made a mistake, who knows, perhaps we should question this dogma. i find it difficult to understand why we always reach an agreement with turkey and china and why we end up blowing up the bank with switzerland, which is a fully democratic state. we must obviously change course, because it is indeed necessary to re-establish relations with turkey, but perhaps by changing the negotiating team and changing the focus of the objectives of the european union, and finally reaching an agreement with switzerland, which, i remind you, has a positive trade balance for italy alone: we export 14 billion euros a year to switzerland and we import 18 billion euros a year, so it is true that we have relations with switzerland, but we also make money with switzerland. so it is absolutely necessary to return to having an open, clear and effective dialogue with our swiss friends.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation laying down common provisions has adapted the rules on the functioning of the structural funds for territorial cohesion to the new objectives set by the commission presidency, the green and digital transition. the most critical factor in the effectiveness of european funds in pursuing cohesion, however, is well known to be the difficulty of spending in many underdeveloped regions, due to bureaucratic complexity, excessive conditionality and poor adherence to the needs of the territories. the average absorption rate of esi funds in europe is 40%, with considerable differences, with some regions absorbing only 20%. the new regulation introduced design facilities, through technical assistance, and some procedural simplifications. but, conversely, macroeconomic conditionality has been confirmed from 2023 and very strict climate conditionality has been introduced throughout the programming cycle. the fear is that the climate neutrality target, which is too close in time, will end up seriously undermining the cohesion action that is central to the treaties. time will tell whether our calls for balance and moderation, which have sadly been ignored, were well founded or not.
i would like to make a few comments, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. i am satisfied with the wording of the recommendation for the second reading of the common provisions in question; parliament's positions were adequately defended during the trilogues, making it possible to reach a more balanced, green and inclusive compromise. the agreement reached on the european regional development fund also brings us closer to the objective of closing the gap between the different regions of europe. i am only sorry that the constraint of economic macro-conditionality has not disappeared completely. the interreg programme is also being strengthened, with the relaunch of cooperation between regions in key areas such as health. my only regret: the decrease in the level of funding partly absorbed by brexit.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about an ideological and divisive relationship. as a shadow rapporteur, i am disappointed that not one of the 60 amendments tabled by the id group has been taken into account. ladies and gentlemen, to ignore a part of this parliament on such sensitive issues is to ignore the millions of women who still feel free to think differently. more than 350 000 signatures have been collected from european citizens who have wanted to convey their 'no' to the matić report directly to the european parliament, and i am with them. we are faced with a text that proposes unthinkable things, such as men being able to give birth or gender being included in all schools in europe. moreover, as a doctor, more than a politician, i find the attack on conscientious objection, which in italy is even protected by the constitution, absurd! we are really tired of this ideological interference from brussels and the matić report is the culmination of it. i would like to call on the moderate forces in this parliament to reiterate the vote in which they rejected the estrella report on sexual and reproductive rights in 2013. instead of dwelling on the abortion issue, let us try to understand the reasons why so many women have abortions. what is the european union doing to help a young mother or a family in difficulty avoid abortion? protecting women really means creating the conditions for them to make choices for life.
in writing. i express my strong disagreement with the report on sexual and reproductive health and rights in the eu in the context of women's health (a9-0169/2021) [2020/2215 (ini) ] which directly violates the principle of subsidiarity, attacks the sovereignty of the member states in matters of their exclusive competence and, in any case, departs from the path of respect for fundamental human rights, such as the right to life, contained in the eu treaty itself and in the international treaties. framing the right to abortion and surrogacy as part of the fight for the necessary gender equality brings the eu to the slippery slope of promoting the culture of death and turning it into the tomb of human rights: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. it is necessary to show the true face of europe, the face of the dignity of every person, from conception and the consequent fundamental rights, to life and freedom of conscience.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in favour of a strong commitment to environmental protection, but the climate law is a pseudo-environmentalist advert that risks severely penalising europe. your greta thunberg-style environmentalism is based on green and ethical taxes and will lead to deindustrialization, the disappearance of entire production chains in favour of non-european ones, social damage to workers and higher costs for consumers. we are opposed to your propaganda which promotes a model in which man is a threat to the environment and not a resource to protect it. behind the climate excuse you want to get to the control of lifestyles and the control of thoughts: the happy decline that you're bringing about involves taxes on plastics, taxes on sugar, taxes on fuel, and it affects ordinary people, who ultimately bear the costs. accused citizens of climate crimes, why? because they dare to have a complete diet, because they dare to have a home, because they use their car to go to work and maybe - think about it! - they also want to travel on low-cost airplanes. but how many of you are willing to give up your smartphone, give up 5g, give up cheap air travel, give up eating meat, give up air conditioning, which we have here, too? the policies you have pursued for years have made europe economically weaker than non-european countries, but without any appreciable results in terms of emissions. what you may not realize is that fewer companies that can work because of restrictive taxes and regulations mean more unemployment and more poverty. you ask european countries for ever more ambitious standards, but then, magically, we see that you also make trade agreements with asian countries that do not have these limits, nor do they have any intention of putting them in place and respecting them. your zero-emission model is a dangerous utopia. what's your dream model? the end of entire european manufacturing sectors sacrificed for chinese photovoltaic panels, chinese scooters and chinese batteries? this does not mean that pollution does not exist, nor that nothing should be done to reduce it. but we must do it on a global scale, thinking about the protection of the territories, without ideology, with an honest scientific comparison and away from the people's court created by the living room ecologists.
madam president, madam minister, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would of course like to congratulate the negotiating team, and in particular the rapporteur, jytte guteland, who has found a good compromise. it's a compromise, we all know that. parliament was prepared to go further, but with this climate law we will go two and a half times faster in the next decade than in the last decade. so, yes, of course, we have to vote on this climate bill and i have to say that the position of the green group voting against this climate bill is of major political irresponsibility, because if we all did the same, then this climate bill would not pass and we would be 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions reduction. fortunately, we are taking responsibility. but i wanted to say, as frans timmermans reminded us, that this climate law is a start. the beginning of a long journey which will lead us to 14 july with the reform of 12 texts. and i would like to say solemnly to the european commission: do not make the mistake of extending the carbon market to heating and fuels. we had it in france, it gave us the yellow vests. you are living it in germany, it gives a toxic debate for the fight against climate change. we saw in switzerland, it led to a short majority rejecting the climate law. do not do this in europe, do not give the populists of the left and the right the argument that we will pay back part of the european recovery plan by increasing the heating bills and diesel bills of all citizens: this is politically and climatically suicidal. do not do this, it is a solemn appeal i make to you today.
mr president, this week we have another hint of what climate science is going to tell us. the number of tipping points, the number of moments in our climate system that will make climate change irreversible, is getting closer and closer. and these reports show that we can't negotiate with the climate system. if we prove, if we promise the world that we are going to achieve the goals of the paris agreement and that we are going to stay well below two degrees with our climate policy, then we must also translate that into a good climate law. and mr. liese, check the climate action tracker! it's not that bad. it says very clearly: europe's new ambitions are not enough. this will bring the world to a temperature rise of two to three degrees. that is not enough and we cannot wait for that, because the next ten years will be crucial. over the next ten years, those sectors that can do it will have to go to zero emissions. and over the next decade, we need to start investing in those sectors that need to innovate now to get to zero emissions in the future. and that is why i am in complete agreement with you, mr timmermans, executive vice-president, when you say: this is really just the end of the beginning. we're just getting started. the climate package will be presented on 14 july. then it's translated into action and then it has to happen. then we have to see that we go to 100 percent renewable energy. then we need to see that the end of the combustion engine is set. then we need to see that the transport infrastructure also makes sure that we move away from fossil fuels. then we must also ensure that there is an emissions trading system in which we stop giving free allowances. these are the challenges we are facing. the greens will fight as always on your side, but for a climate law that actually delivers what we promised in paris.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this climate bill is a goal we all share. for us conservatives, the preservation of a healthy environment, so that we can pass it on to our children, is even an identifying theme of our political history. what we cannot share, however, is the ideological pollution which unfortunately ruins some parts of this law. the heavy impact of accidents risks seriously damaging the european production system, as well as the environment and human rights worldwide. we all know, but few say, that the european union will not be able to meet the objectives it is setting itself unless it surrenders itself to the chinese communist regime, which holds most of the raw materials needed for the energy and digital transition. this supremacy is exercised through the devastation of territories in africa and asia, through the exploitation of uighurs and children in the cobalt mines in the congo. we've already seen in the last century how the road to hell is paved with good intentions: we must not make the same mistakes in this century.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we trust and wish the new european ombudsman every success in his work, and hope that he will become a useful instrument in combating fraud against the union's budget. this is a body which will probably need to be adapted in the future. what i hope from the outset is that there will be no overlap with other bodies, such as eurojust, which is already doing its job very well. in fact, there must be synergy and cooperation, not only with the european agencies but also with the prosecutors of the member states, with a functional and reciprocal exchange of data. the eppo needs to be adequately funded to operate effectively and, for a more homogeneous prosecution, we hope that soon all 27 eu countries will be part of it, not just 22. unfortunately, there are still some gaps in the organization chart: it is necessary that all countries complete the nominations as soon as possible, so that this instrument can be fully operational.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have made it. after years of negotiations we can finally hand over to our fishermen and aquaculture workers a new european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund. the new programming period 2021-2027 will be able to count on measures that go towards sustainability in all its three pillars. it has not been easy, but thanks to the constructive work of my group, we have achieved a certain balance between the environmental and the social and economic needs, especially of small operators and small and mediumsized enterprises. i am referring, for example, to the doubling of support for temporary detention for up to 12 months; to support for young people; to targeted support for aquaculture; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months; to the doubling of the number of farmers who are in temporary detention for up to 12 months. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the possibility of modernising fishing vessels and increasing their gross tonnage to improve safety and living conditions on board and the possibility of financing the construction of ports to facilitate small-scale fishing is also welcome. unfortunately, the budget has been reduced, but overall this new feampa represents a first step towards a new paradigm of european policy to really protect our fisheries and aquaculture, all while safeguarding our coastal communities, marine biodiversity and food security. so i thank rapporteur mato, my colleague millán mon and all the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done together. the ball now goes to the member states and the regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european fisheries fund must go to the operators to whom it was originally intended, but if we are going to give funds even for vessels up to 24 metres, we are helping those who need it least. small shipyards have been protecting the sea for centuries, living in its natural rhythms and preserving its life. in areas where fishing is disappearing, why is access allowed even to young people who own only 33% of the boat? aid must be directed to those farms or shipping companies which encourage genuine participation and a 100% generational change. we have always felt that, precisely as a common policy, fisheries policy must pay close attention to the real conditions of the sector in order to ensure the conservation of resources, help for the small and the generational renewal, and not to support the domination of large industries which have no regard for the physiological needs of a very sensitive environment such as the marine one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. europe must change course without delay and support small shipping companies, while avoiding subsidies for those who see the sea as a business, a mine to be exploited, to be swept to the brink of exhaustion.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ageing of society is one of the most difficult challenges facing europe in the near future. europe's population is slowly declining and is estimated to account for only 4% of the world's total population in 2070. the demographic changes taking place and the decline in birth rates are leading to the depopulation of entire areas, especially rural and mountain areas. on the one hand, it is mandatory to provide support and create a strategy for our elderly who are suffering right now because of the pandemic; however, it is necessary to support birth rates in order to mitigate the effects of population ageing by providing incentives for young couples, family support and policies to improve employment. these are the tools we must put in place as soon as possible if we are not to resign ourselves to this continuing demographic decline.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european citizens are demanding efficient, fast and sustainable transport. this is the way to link europe and it is on these objectives that the 30 billion which the european union is allocating must be spent. but there are many lights and shadows. the investments in digitisation and the strengthening of the corridors from northern europe to southern italy are positive, but we would have liked greater ambition on the decarbonisation of energy networks by closing the door to gas and opening it to renewables. i also wonder why the european parliament continues to ignore the criticisms of the european court of auditors on the turin-lyon tav project, on the shameful delays, the inflated traffic forecasts and the harmful consequences on the environment. the financing of this work, which is included in the agreement we are voting on today, is a self-fulfilling prophecy which cannot leave us indifferent. i conclude by saying that rather than focusing on works that have real added value, we need works for citizens and not cathedrals in the desert.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, these three measures deal with the crucial issue of investment in infrastructure, with the objective that we all share of speeding up construction by reducing the bureaucratic burden on businesses. however, i am disappointed to see that the eligible funding under the connecting europe facility has not included, at least in part, the costs of maintaining the infrastructure already in place, which will therefore remain the responsibility of the member states. the financial envelope is also insufficient in relation to the ambitious climate objectives embedded in the cef through the environmental conditionalities, which go alongside what should be the main purpose of these instruments, namely to support the completion of networks and transport safety. in regions whose development is lagging behind, such as sicily and sardinia, road infrastructure is seriously lacking and the maintenance costs of our bridges and roads are not covered by regional budgets. before devoting huge resources to bicycle lanes and electric charging stations, would it not have been more correct to ensure that all european citizens have safe and efficient means of communication?
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative, i myself, in recent weeks, have signed, i am one of the meps who signed the appeal by mr lópez gil, to which the high representative has responded with an important letter, which shows commitment. it is obviously a commitment which must go forward, it must involve the member states, it must probably go towards economic sanctions, because the situation, as my colleagues have said, is very serious and has worsened considerably in recent years. what the sandinista government in nicaragua is doing is unacceptable. in addition, there is a level of corruption and money laundering, a continuing violation of human rights that is very serious. i would add one aspect, which as an italian i can only be proud of, to see that the other political groups have supported the inclusion of a reference which gives an idea of what the sandinista regime is. alessio casimirri is an italian citizen sentenced to six life sentences, protected by the ortega government. he was part of the firing squad that kidnapped and then killed the red brigade commander who killed aldo moro, president of the italian council, former president of the european council. that was perhaps one of the most serious attacks on democracy in my country, and as an italian i would like to remind you that we owe an even greater commitment to the memory of men like aldo moro. of course, today our fight must also be for the rights of those who oppose the nicaraguan regime. in short, we are there, my party is there, and if europe and the european governments want to do something, they will have our support.
vpc/hr. madam president, i welcome the attention this parliament is paying to disinformation, the manipulation of information and interference in our democratic processes. certainly, too, cyber attacks in our member states, campaigns to influence our information space, and even the manipulation of our elections have become a permanent part of our political landscape - even more so, one might say, after the pandemic, which has accentuated this battle of words, but above all the spread of false and falsified information. this is a well-orchestrated campaign that is a threat to our democracies and our security. it's an attempt to manipulate the conscience of the citizens and make our policies change. it is also a matter of foreign policy, because it limits the space in which the european union can be influential, able to influence the world. and to do that, we need to work at european level, but also at the level of each of the member states and with our partners around the world who share the same values as us. we started working on it in 2015. we've started to build structures that can systematically detect and expose these disinformation maneuvers. this is why the east stratcom task force was set up, following a mandate from the council. at that time, it was only focused, as its name suggests, on the east, on the problems arising in the eastern part of europe. this mandate did not respond to new sources of disinformation that emerged later, such as china. i am referring to this because the mandate we have, the east stratcom task force, concerns the problems that have arisen in the eastern part of europe. but we've improved our capacity, we've acted proactively. we have increased our capacity to deal with situations, again in the east: ukraine is no longer the balkans, it is ukraine, georgia. we have created an early warning system which allows us to exchange information with the member states in a way that is as its name suggests, fast. we're doing everything we can to make sure our societies are aware of this dynamic of misinformation, working with the media and social scientists. we are also working with the g7 and nato. we have established partnerships with civil society. we have created a new policy framework, which we explicitly call the 'action plan against disinformation' and the 'action plan for european democracy', which allows us to work at international level. you are certainly right, mr. member. and you will be right for a long time to come when you say that more must be done. you will be right for a long time because there is much more to be done and it will take time. it is certainly time to put in place more elaborate frameworks and structures to deal with these problems. and we are working to develop a european approach that allows us to deal with this threat at european level. without a doubt, we are very focused on disinformation coming from russia. more attention will have to be paid to other sources of disinformation. but for now, we believe that the fundamental goal is this: and to do that, we're working to develop our capabilities, not to mention -- i don't want you to think that we're forgetting -- new actors, new tactics, new ways of manipulating information. that is why we are asking the council to review and extend the mandate we have. new disinformation scenarios will also have to be considered, including some that would not be disinformation in the first place, such as sub-saharan africa, the central african republic. this is a major scenario of disinformation and we have appealed to the government of the central african republic to show it that if this continues, the european union will not be able to continue to support these governments. because it's amazing how, in a society that's not as publicized as ours, misinformation has become a weapon of war. so, yes, we need to develop a more coordinated approach, with more resources. we must equip our delegations, our military and civilian missions, better. we have sent an expert in the fight against disinformation to each of our delegations, as well as to all csdp missions deployed around the world. we're gonna have specialists in these areas. i would not like to use vague words, but i would like to say that we have obtained an increase in our resources, modest, but which will enable us to better equip our teams, here as in the delegations and missions, to establish more effective partnerships, which extend within the union or to other countries with the same concern as ours. but for this, we will need the help of public opinion, because sometimes, when we say that we are fighting against disinformation, there is also a certain suspicion, a certain fear that it may be about limiting information. they say, "ah yes, but you want to control the information!" of course, to fight against misinformation, you have to see the information. we need to know what is being said, to determine whether what is being said is in accord with the parameters of truth. and sometimes there's a thin red line in the fight against misinformation, which can be seen as an excuse to limit the ability to inform. nothing is more remote from our will. on the contrary, democracy is a system that works on information: the fuel of the engines of democracy, what makes citizens able to choose, is that they are well informed. that's why the enemies of democracy are making this effort, that they are trying to make the fuels of democracy incapable of making it work because they are rigged, because citizens are not given the information necessary to get an idea of their interests, to know who defends them best and what their political choices are. i would like to encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, as you are doing, to ask for more resources, but above all to use better those we have, in a battle that will be crucial for the future of democracy. because today information is everywhere. it's growing at the speed of light. it spreads like any virus. and if this information is tainted with inaccuracies or rather lies, lies manufactured to be disseminated, which touch the sensitive fibre of people to make them believe, sometimes, what they want to believe, then the democratic system will be just a formality. democracy is not about ballot papers, it's not just about that. they are above all well-informed citizens who can make good choices. it's a battle i care about. i have personally suffered in my country from this battle of misinformation. i am well aware of the danger this poses to democracy. i am very sensitive to your proposals and constructive criticism. i can only ask for the support of all members of parliament to carry this battle through.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the eu has been the target of numerous forms of hybrid warfare for several years. however, the eu is still at the beginning of a long path towards mitigating this threat and what is the most worrying is that the eu is still not determined and resourceful enough. the report of the european court of auditors states that the coordination and accountability of eu actions against disinformation should be significantly improved. i would like to highlight the contribution of the eeas stratcom task force in the fight against disinformation and foreign interference in eu democratic processes. i am proud that the first stratcom was launched, following the request of parliament, back in 2015. every year thereafter we persistently increased the stratcom budget, which reached four million during last year. we are convinced that stratcom needs a secure and long-term financing model if we are serious about defending our democracies. with great concern i learned that the eeas has not asked for any extra resources for stratcom for next year. high representative, why is this so? do you expect that parliament again will do the work which should fall to the services under your responsibility?
the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. we know that in recent years there have been numerous attempts by foreign actors, both state and non-state, to influence the european democratic process with the aim of undermining our project and the values on which it is based. as president glucksmann said, there are many instruments being used against us, from more or less direct forms of funding to parties and foundations, to cyber-attacks, to organized disinformation campaigns, perhaps through the distorted use of platforms. these attempts always have two things in common: tend to favour sovereignty and nationalism and have as their preferred targets minorities and the most vulnerable, migrants, women, lgbt communities. for several months now, we have been dealing with all this in the inge special committee, and we intend to go all the way, also by exposing those accomplices, also present among the extreme right-wing forces in europe, who hypocritically wave national flags but take orders from moscow, or i am thinking of those forces - i am referring to the salvini league, for example - who have had ambiguous relations with the russian leadership, all of which have yet to be clarified. the risk of external interference, at least potential, is unfortunately very great, and it is not just russia or china. there are undemocratic regimes or systems that have relations with various european politicians - i am thinking, for example, of saudi arabia - who are seeking a continuous and dangerous political exchange. the european union is the meaning of our work needs to put in place a strong strategy to defend its democracy and needs to do so now.
in the name of the id group. madam president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, interference and disinformation coming from third countries have been analysed at length by the inge committee. it is undeniable that there are some countries which, using new technologies, are trying to destabilize some national states or even the european institutions themselves. that is why we must work together - or better yet, work together - in this house to give europe the tools it needs to counter such actions, instead of coming here to take lessons from those who have their roots in the italian communist party, which for over fifty years has been financed by moscow, and this is documented. the league's position is very clear: we are on the side of the western democracies without any ifs and buts. we are not afraid to criticize those who violate these principles, whether in moscow or beijing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. now, tell us in this house what you need and how we members of the european parliament can meet it. we certainly cannot remain immune to attacks on our democracies coming in particular from a state run by the largest communist party which slaughters uyghurs, persecutes christians and militarily threatens taiwan and tramples civil liberties in hong kong. but the european union cannot do it alone to counter external interference. we must also strengthen synergy with other actors, namely nato and our continent's main ally, the united states of america. let's not make the mistake of not involving our overseas allies in this battle, a battle that must also be addressed to online platforms so that there is collaboration but never censorship. too often we see social media blocking or censoring not only extremists but also those, such as journalists or politicians, who express ideas that are not in line with political correctness, undermining the fundamental principle of freedom of expression. so yes to combating disinformation, no to censorship, this must be extremely clear.
madam president, on eu banks and borders, we need to put an end to kleptocrats and their accomplices which assist them in the stealing of public money and looting assets. the eu needs to be able to target enablers of corruption, whether they are individuals or entities outside its borders through sanctions. while corruption and human rights may be linked, expanding the scope of the existing human rights sanctions regime is not the solution, in my view, for practical and tactical reasons. thus, i strongly prefer a stand-alone anti-corruption mechanism, as has been done in the uk, and i would encourage you to look into this model. tackling agents of corruption requires distinct tools and involves specific structures. it will also have to send a strong signal on our determination to combat corruption. lastly, we cannot use the us model. we have strict legal safeguards in the listing process and can only use open sources, unlike the us.
mr. president, mr. minister, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! only by acting together and taking decisions together as the european union can we act with the necessary strength. it is therefore essential to maintain the principle of unanimity, which guarantees the consistency of the decisions taken by the council. this principle is a guarantee of the success of the common foreign policy, not an obstacle to be removed. the magnitsky act is needed because only severe sanctions against the richest and most powerful representatives of the putin or lukashenka regimes will have any effect. the global system of sanctions should address the most serious human rights violations or abuses which are manifest, widespread and systematic. abuse of this instrument would weaken its significance. it is also worth considering in the future to extend the scope of the eu sanctions regime to include flagrant examples of corruption. we see how eagerly politicians who played important roles in european chadets and social democracy are to take positions in russian energy companies. maybe we can get this cleaned up, too.
madam president, in defence and protection of human rights worldwide, we must employ the full range of instruments to prevent and eradicate the causes of human rights violations. it is time to add corruption to the list of crimes sanctioned by the european union’s magnitsky act. it is not right that the sanctions regime called after sergei magnitsky cannot be applied to putin’s cronies who are misappropriating public funds and depriving the russian people of quality state services and a dignified life. corruption crimes constitute a significant part of human rights violations. it can be illustrated by the cases of collapsed school buildings or maternal deaths due to embezzled public funds. it is a far—reaching disease, from the gupta family’s crimes in south africa to high—ranking officials’ collaboration with drug cartels in latin america, which can be contained only by showing that there will be dire consequences. it’s not a choice. it’s a must.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with the adoption and rapid implementation of the new global sanctions regime, a tool which allows us to be even more decisive in prosecuting human rights violations wherever they occur. however, there is still room for improvement in this system, for example by recognising the interconnected nature of corruption, conflict and human rights violations and therefore including this as a criterion for imposing the sanctions themselves. this failure creates a significant gap between the sanctions programmes of the united states, the united kingdom and canada and that of the european union, increasing the risk that our financial systems may be exploited by individuals sanctioned by our partners, as has unfortunately already happened in the past. the european union has a duty to be a world example in defending human rights and dismantling systems that perpetuate cycles of violence and impunity. i therefore think it is important to ask you again today that in the next review the scope of this instrument be extended to cover also crimes related to corruption. fighting corruption is not just a matter of good governance, it is an act of necessary self-defence of our values and our institutions and also of our economy.
madam president, the so-called 'european magnitsky act' is a fundamental tool for swiftly adopting sanctions against those responsible for serious human rights violations. however, as important as the adoption of sanctions is that they are enforced and enforced once they are adopted. i therefore welcome the fact that the excellent resolution prepared by david mcallister and maria arena stresses the need for all member states of the union to comply with and apply the restrictive measures in a rapid and consistent manner. full compliance with european sanctions is a fundamental issue because it affects the credibility of the union. i want to recall the events that took place in my country, spain. in january 2020, the spanish government ignored the ban on entry and transit in european territory imposed on delcy rodríguez, vice president of the regime of nicolás maduro. as stated in the order of the spanish supreme court of 26 november 2020, the spanish government breached european sanctions relating to the situation in venezuela. i am glad that the european commission has already announced that it will carry out a review of practices that circumvent sanctions, so that dark incidents such as the one at barajas airport can no longer go unpunished. as i said, the magnitsky act is a fundamental instrument in the union's foreign policy, and this house must therefore also play an active role. i therefore believe that the european commission and the council must be accountable to the european parliament for the adoption of sanctions and also, and most importantly, for their enforcement.
madam president, it is worthwhile to examine the scope of the european magnitsky act, particularly in the context of its geopolitical impact as an important part of the european foreign policy toolbox. but it is also worth saying that the european magnitsky act must not become an instrument of over-repression and violation of human rights and freedoms. contrary to the fact that the us magnitsky act does not apply in the territory of the european union, some member states use the imposition of sanctions by the us as a pretext for unlawful repression against individuals and companies, which is in flagrant contradiction with both their domestic legislation and community law. this is the case with the republic of bulgaria. but in conclusion, in the context of what has been said, i believe that, in view of the existing negative practice of member states' misinterpretation of the us magnitsky act, the same should not be allowed to happen to its european counterpart, i.e. the sanctions under it should not become a tolerable excess punishment without the fault being proven by an independent judicial body in the assessment of all facts and evidence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a comprehensive european union human rights sanctions regime is a major step forward and an indispensable tool for making europe's struggles to defend human rights in the world strong, credible and effective, and not just a statement of principle, which is often not taken into account. in order not to waste a great opportunity, this instrument must be used consistently, by defining criteria which reduce the discretion and arbitrariness of its application. we cannot be intransigent on human rights every other day. in this context, we must know that it is a mistake to allow the instrument to be applied by a unanimous vote in the council instead of, as would have been rational, by a qualified majority vote. and we also have to tell ourselves something else, though, that we are consistent on human rights if we are always consistent, even within the borders of europe. the mind-boggling choices against the lgbt community in poland and hungary are, for example, the total denial of the principles that we all exalt together on this occasion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we are not aware of the seriousness of the risk of cyberattacks. the council rightly places these issues at the top of its agenda, but we must act quickly and in a united way, because criminal incidents such as data theft and ransom demands and the paralysis of platforms are already on the agenda. we are also witnessing an evolution, a refinement of the type of threat increasingly directed against complex information systems, with data ranging from the health sector to the financial and administrative sectors. the next step will be to improve the current european regulatory framework. it would also be useful to consider a coordinating authority to deal with these issues at supranational level. it is also important that individual countries intervene with uniform national regulations that make data exchange fluid. i would like to conclude with a thought, however, to the reporter peter de vries who was shot in amsterdam. i am addressing you, mr von der leyen, because the mafia is a european problem which must be tackled with european legislation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall now turn to the council conclusions on turkey. while recognising the important strategic role of security and trade, as well as the role of a key ally for nato, and bordering on frontline situations of war and instability, both for nato and for the european union, we must forget that our external relations are guided by values. this is unforgettable. erdoğan's turkey has become a clear systemic rival in the mediterranean, the middle east and the caucasus. erdoğan's turkey is a non-aligned state. the root of our diversity and distance lies precisely in his repressive political use of turkey's vast know-how in the fight against terrorism. the use of repressive politics to undermine the rule of law, fundamental rights, freedom of religion, other social freedoms and democracy is unacceptable to us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last week we read of yet another shipwreck in the mediterranean. a few days later, the libyan coast guard boarded a boat full of desperate people and then shot them. yes, you heard me right, he shot him and we're the ones supplying the guns, unfortunately. we shall read of more deaths, more shipwrecks and more violence this long summer. president von der leyen and president michel, do we want to be complicit in these actions on the backs of innocent people? will the european union intervene or turn its back on us once again? will we launch a search and rescue mission at sea or will we let them drown away from this chamber and our lives? every drowned person, every victim of violence on our borders is another brick in the wall of our shame. gentlemen, we have a choice here. we can either try to save these people or we can let our europe sink into a sea of shame. let us think now because tomorrow we will not have the right to shed tears or say that this tragedy was inevitable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council should have dealt with the fight against covid-19, with economic recovery, with immigration, as requested by the italian prime minister, but instead it dealt with a national law on sex education in schools, on combating paedophilia, not a law of the orbán government, mind you, but a law of the hungarian parliament, a free and democratic parliament which has made its choice, whether it is acceptable or not, on a subject which the treaties do not assign to the european union but to the national states. that is why hungary is now threatened with not having the seven billion euros it has requested and which it is due from the recovery fund. the appalling paradox is that the european council itself did not decide to help italy and the mediterranean countries in their struggle with the wave of migration, but instead decided to give another seven and a half billion euros to a truly undemocratic regime such as that of erdoğan in turkey, in order to prevent migrants from reaching germany, where, as it happens, a vote will be held in a few months' time. this is a shame, i wanted to tell you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is paradoxical that the very same people who invented the health cord are here today trying to give lessons in democracy. this morning i heard blackmail, threats, tangible proof that too many of you do not like and do not accept democracy. you are taking away the time and resources of this house by exploiting a law which is based on the protection of the defence of the interests of minors in accordance with the provisions of the un convention on the rights of the child. a law which is a matter for national, not community, and above all, a law which was voted almost unanimously. what are we talking about? i look forward to the day when the truly vulnerable, for example the elderly, the disabled, will receive the same attention that supposed minorities receive from this house. minorities are also well funded and well protected internationally. i would like to ask you to think about this, because democracy is in danger, but not in budapest, but in brussels.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in an age of universal deception, telling the truth is a revolutionary act. today we are talking about the deception of the european left, which, with the help of the media, wants to accuse the democratically elected governments of two european countries of being homophobic. have you read the hungarian law you're so much against? the hungarian law does not in any way violate the principles and prerogatives of the european union. hungary reiterates that the sexual education of children is the responsibility of the parents, as laid down in article 14 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the same left that is now accusing budapest is the same left that in 1956 applauded the soviet tanks that massacred workers and students and brought back the communist dictatorship to hungary. that leftist was wrong and lying yesterday as it is wrong and lying today. i ask you all, among the freedoms of the european union, is there one for a woman to walk alone in the dusk in the clothes she prefers? you know that in many, many cities in france, germany and belgium this is in fact a very high-risk undertaking, whereas in hungary and poland it is still possible. we must always remember that without poland, which saved europe under the walls of vienna, we would not be here today to debate. long live the europe of the people, of freedom, of roots. we call on the governments of poland and hungary to continue to defend children and european values, for which our ancestors fought so hard and which the european union sometimes wishes to ignore.
in writing. once again this parliament is wasting its time discussing the rule of law and democracy in some member states, forgetting how democracy is applied within it, where an illiberal and anti-democratic health cordon exists to silence entire political groups. we cannot accept lessons in democracy from a certain ideological left which claims to be a champion of human rights but denies the possibility of participation and expression to parties democratically elected by the citizens. we cannot tolerate brussels' interference in the internal affairs of the member states in a matter which is not within the union's competence. the law we are discussing today, which was approved by a very large majority in the budapest parliament, does not in any way violate the principles and prerogatives of the european union and is only intended to protect children, childhood and the prerogatives of parents in the education of minors. so enough of this moral imperialism from brussels, enough of these debates which only serve to discredit legitimately elected parliaments and governments. if we really want to talk about democracy, let's put it into practice first, in this chamber.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president šefčovič, the historic moment we are living in is one of unemployment and inequality, to the point that one in four european citizens is now poor or at risk of social exclusion. it is time for us to rewrite together a new social model, one based on equity, opportunity and well-being. as the five star movement we believe that the commission's programme for the coming year must have the courage to re-design political governance, to review the constraints of the stability and growth pact by introducing the breakthrough of green and social investment. the european semester will also have to be reformed by setting environmental and social objectives alongside macroeconomic ones. this process must be completed urgently before the safeguard clause is removed, to avoid an institutional and financial short-circuit which would jeopardize the survival of our own democracies. mr vice-president, the next generation eu is the citizens' great hope for the future and for a new europe based on unity and solidarity. we cannot let them down right now, let's make that wish come true.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is too early to draw a balance sheet on the actual use of the digital covid certificate, but as we had imagined the tool is proving essential for the re-launch of tourism. after months of sacrifices and closures, airports are finally no longer empty and european citizens have resumed booking their holidays and can do so with the security and simplicity that the digital covid certificate was meant to provide them. the booking figures are encouraging and the picture before us is that of a positive season. across europe, we are seeing hotel bookings at 80% of 2019 pre-pandemic levels. but we have to do better. citizens complain that they encounter some difficulties in using the application and downloading the certificate, and we therefore ask the european commission to assist the member states in facilitating the issuing procedures. there are also reports of difficulties and delays in obtaining certificates of recovery. we have said yes to this instrument, provided that it does not lead to a compulsory vaccination for european citizens, so we are removing all the obstacles to an alternative for the actual use of the certificate, without forgetting the free testing. we have, as the league, placed a great deal of emphasis on this measure in the negotiations and we expect the states to make it effective. some are already doing so by announcing plans to offer free testing to tourists visiting the country this summer. what are we waiting for to invite all the member states to do so? we would thus really make it easier for our citizens to travel without an additional cost for those who, in full freedom and as their own right, have also chosen not to be vaccinated. the europe of rights we are talking about is also this. the summer season has just begun and we must make sure that it is really a season of re-start and of smiles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 26 countries have already adopted the covid-19 certificate and more than 200 million european citizens can now travel safely again. after disastrous initial delays, vaccination campaigns have picked up pace, with tourism and commerce breathing new life into the country. the commission is also concerned that, while england is preparing to host an event such as the european championship final, germany has reintroduced controls and restrictions, preventing entry to some travellers and then only taking a step back yesterday. these sudden changes are not a reassuring sign. the decisions taken out of fear of the delta variant risk undermining the confidence of all those who have chosen europe as a holiday destination to the detriment of millions of entrepreneurs and workers. what is the commission doing to ensure that the efforts made and the negotiations of these months are not wasted? of course, we must remain vigilant, but the increase in vaccinated people and the arrival of the heat are reducing the contagiousness of the delta variant, which however has much milder symptoms. the citizens need certainty and the covid certificate must be a watershed to start again safely. we're not going back. forecasts show an increase in tourist travel compared to 2020, especially in the mediterranean countries. let's not miss another summer. what we need to do with new variants is vaccines, testing, sequencing, tracking, and no further restrictions on freedom. we have the weapons we need to defeat the virus once and for all, let's use them.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is a failure. you failed to coordinate european countries, despite president von der layen's promises, you failed to build solidarity between states with countries like italy, which was denied the availability of ventilators and masks at the beginning of the pandemic; you failed to meet your contracts with the pharmaceutical companies, where you did not provide for penalties with conditions that saw us adding delays to delays compared to other countries in the world; you failed through the ema on vaccines. do you want to talk about the tragicomic astrazeneca thing? first it was only for young people, then no no, it's for the elderly, then let's say it's for everyone, then attention only for a certain age group and while the ema was assuring the safety of the vaccine, the european countries blocked it. the european union has consistently acted late, in a disorderly manner and without adequate transparency. despite the many mistakes made, however, no one takes responsibility and no one thinks of resigning. in fact, it is a re-launch, demanding more facilities and more skills and, of course, also more money. now you propose to strengthen prevention structures so that they can better organise themselves through databases for the procurement of medicines and medical devices. we therefore consider it strategic to support european production, because today more than ever we should have understood, at the very least, that it is necessary to reduce dependence on third countries for raw materials, medicines and medical devices and much more. synergy between agencies and the exchange of information are certainly useful because it is absolutely a priority to finally be able to respond quickly, efficiently and in a coordinated way to emergencies, but we cannot forget that between 2011 and 2018 the european commission asked the member states 63 times to cut their health spending. so the health crisis is a result of problems that you have created and that we are now facing. we are therefore puzzled by the fact that the european medicines agency has been given additional responsibility, which, let us be frank, has not been very successful. you want more powers for the union, more task forces, and we do not think we need more structures, but a more appropriate organisation and greater capacity and quality. and in conclusion, perhaps, if i may make a suggestion, let us also avoid giving european money to fund absurd investments like the one at the wuhan institute of virology. perhaps we are helping the member states and really helping the citizens of europe.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eighth environment action programme is the basis for the main objective of the european union's environmental policy, namely to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. to achieve climate neutrality, the text under discussion provides for close monitoring of progress made by individual member states and the rapid and systematic use of infringement procedures against states that do not comply with the commission's roadmap. in addition, all direct and indirect subsidies to fossil fuels at national, regional and local levels will be phased out by 2025. the proposals contained in this text, however ambitious, are not acceptable. our companies, already hard hit by the pandemic and without subsidies, would suffer further economic damage and an inevitable loss of competitiveness compared to countries like china, india, the united states, which do not share the same climate goal. at the moment our enterprises must not be suffocated by additional constraints, but must be supported by adequate economic aid to save them from bankruptcy, which means saving many, many jobs.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i also thank the president of the bușoi committee for the motion and for explaining the importance of strengthening the european research area. the pandemic that has affected the world and europe in particular has shown how vital it is that research is at the heart of europe's strategic planning. for this reason, as a group, we welcome and share some of the points made in the motion, particularly those concerning small and mediumsized enterprises and universities, and i will tell you why. everyone here said that the value of the private sector's role is important in improving europe's research and innovation capacity, in boosting new innovation and in promoting europe's competitiveness and sustainability. we therefore believe, and i share your view, that this can be achieved by making it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises to access funds and by providing more help by significantly reducing red tape. and we may not be there yet. the gap between industry and academia must therefore be bridged to monetise, but not just in money, the results achieved in the university sector and to see efforts translated into results aimed at improving the lives of citizens. the commission should encourage the transfer of know-how and examples of success between member states. in this regard, as a friulian friuli-venezia giulia is a region in the north-east of italy i would like to draw attention to the initiative of the university of udine which, through the uniud lab village project, intends to strengthen the link between researchers, students and businesses in order to increase technology transfer. this innovative area aims to create the means to build a common design path, in such a way as to give concrete, innovative and measurable answers to the productive, social and economic sector by increasing the link with the territory. this innovative drive of friuli-venezia giulia was confirmed this year by its inclusion in the list of highly innovative european regions. that's what we need to put the accelerator on and that's what we need to push.
mr president, while bangladesh has sent in its action plan, the european parliament has until now received zero information on the contents of the final roadmap on labour rights. that is unacceptable. the bangladesh accord – the voluntary programme that made factories safer after the rana plaza disaster – is expiring. without clear commitments, we risk ending up with nothing, exposing workers yet again to unacceptable working conditions. we need guarantees on safe workplaces, on inspections, on free unions, on child labour eradication. these measures cannot wait until 2025. because let’s not forget: the rana plaza collapse, with thousands of people inside, was completely preventable. factories should be bound by clear rules respecting labour rights, verified by inspections. but european companies also need to take responsibility. during the covid crisis, big european clothing brands cancelled and underpaid for their orders, pushing people into poverty. i think that no single piece of clothing should be allowed in our shops that is made without respect for labour rights and environmental standards. fair fashion has to become the standard instead of the exception.
mr. chairman, please! i was in bangladesh. we may not realize it, but this is a country with a population a dozen million larger than russia. it's a big country with a very difficult economic situation. and that's probably the reason we're talking about this right now. the tragedy of eight years ago shows how much this country has to do. it is good that the european parliament is talking about this. i think some political families in this parliament can do more. for example, our socialist colleagues in their european family can communicate with the british labour party, whose mp is the daughter of the prime minister of bangladesh. i think this is also a form of pressure on the bangladeshi authorities. it's worth it. it seems that our joint involvement in this case is a good thing, necessary. and it's going well.
i would like to speak, pursuant to rule 59 (4), to mr gonzález casares on the referral to the committee on interinstitutional negotiations of his report on the european medicines agency. you have one minute. the request will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission proposal.
before we continue with the debate, i shall proceed to the opening of the first vote today. we shall vote on the dossiers as they appear on the agenda. the vote will take place from 9.45 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. the same voting method as in previous elections will be used.
the debate on the commission statement (2021/2756 ((rsp)) is now resumed.
mr president hungary is a small country compared to bangladesh. the differences in population are even greater, but perhaps we can learn from them how to create a modern, competitive, market-based economy with full employment and respect for the rights of workers. our prime minister has given us the recipe for a strong social policy in porto: vigorous tax cuts. we need to build a family-friendly policy and a work-based economy that the country builds on workers whose rights are respected and that also respects international rules. these rules must be followed, and the result will be a competitive, work-based economy. the recipe is ready, used boldly with local ingredients.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in global value chains, which all too often involve intolerable imbalances, exploitation and lack of rights, bangladesh is certainly a key country, a country where many european brands carry out a large part of their production process. what is happening in that country and its hopes for progress therefore concern us deeply, and we must also feel that we are responsible for it. it is absolutely crucial that we continue with vigour on the road to building a system of labour rights where they are lacking, to combat child labour and to guarantee full flexibility to trade unions, to strengthen controls in factories, to tackle the issue of wages, which are often totally unacceptable. eight years after the rana plaza tragedy, which, as has been mentioned, claimed the lives of 1,134 people, no step backwards must be taken with regard to the bangladesh accord, which has guaranteed over two million workers a first step forward in safety in the factories. this can only be achieved by maintaining concrete and binding commitments and by treating the question of the fate of workers as a matter of concern to us.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to have commissioner mcguinness here because, having been a long-time member of the european parliament, i believe that she has a better capacity than other commissioners, and perhaps even those who mainly follow international trade, to listen to the requests of members of the european parliament. finally, we are talking about a subject which has been of great concern to our companies and to european companies for some months now. there is a problem of prices, but above all of the supply of raw materials. we must also sum up the situation within the producer associations, which have a problem, a conflict between those who want protection, which i and my party have always supported, but we must find a balance between those who want to solve a problem of finding raw materials that is likely to harm growth, growth which is necessary to do the things that this parliament and the european commission want, let us think only of the infrastructure projects that are included in the national growth plans. we are facing a systemic shock here, which shows the fragility of the global value chain. we are facing a situation where china and the united states have grown and are growing and there is a consumer growth issue from which our companies risk being cut off. for this reason, accelerating at this moment on instruments such as the carbon border adjustment mechanism, which i myself support in principle, risks being counterproductive. we are seeing countries like russia and china that are going to tax the export of certain raw materials. now i'm not saying that we should get to do that, but that's a theme. in short, the competitiveness of the business and productive system of an entire continent is at stake and to fail to recover now, because of an inability to react to these shocks, i think it would be very serious.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the shortage of raw materials - wood, plastics, metals - is having a serious impact on our real economy, hampering the recovery. the environment is certainly important, but while we are here discussing transition, outside the factories are shut down because of the lack of microchips and construction is halted because the cost of concrete is too high. stocks are running out, logistics are not supporting demand and prices are rising rapidly, impacting citizens. in short, our recovery is slipping away as china recovers. for months we've been asking where europe is. we cannot live by rhetoric alone on the ecological transition, we must start again with production in europe because we can no longer limit ourselves to imports. as we see, addiction is costly to business and citizens, and we must avoid demonizing entire sectors such as steel and plastics, because without them we would not have goods for many of our daily activities. finally, we must think - and the league has often asked this - of a green deal that in this crisis engages with the business world rather than accusing it or hitting it with superfluous taxes. without a quick response, we consumers will all be the new victims of this crisis. we will be burdened with all these costs that businesses cannot afford, with the result that recovery, jobs, and the citizens who have already paid dearly for the pandemic will be impoverished.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am a member of the delegation for relations between the eu and iran and, like many of my colleagues, i am familiar with this case, we have been following it for a long time, but we are having difficulty in getting results. the point is that our credibility is at stake. we must vote on tough resolutions like the one we are voting on today, which i support. i agree with the essential part, which is the part where he calls for an unconditional release, because the whole thing is absurd. ahmadreza djalali does not deserve treatment, no man deserves it, even men who were guilty of mischief, and he does not deserve it because he must be a free man, arrested, tortured, sentenced to death for four years continues this still murder. in a situation in which i see hesitation on the part of the european institutions and governments, because they too have a responsibility, in an escalation which i believe is a shift towards an even harsher regime, because the new president raisi was the protagonist in the front line of death sentences for opponents in the so-called death panels in the 1980s. i think that for minorities and for the opposition, the situation will be even more complicated. i would ask the european commission to engage with the united states a little more on this matter because i believe that it will be with them that we will have to find a solution, starting with that nuclear agreement which i do not believe in and which i believe is hardly sustainable any further.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, how long are we going to tolerate the repeated violations of human rights by the islamic republic of iran? iran severely represses the rights to freedom of expression, association and assembly. security forces have used unlawful force to suppress protests. the authorities continue to detain hundreds of dissident protesters and human rights defenders, and have sentenced many to imprisonment, flogging and other torture, and even amputations. women face entrenched and violent discrimination, forced disappearances, torture and other ill-treatment are systemic. there is no such thing as a fair trial. the death penalty is used as a weapon of political repression. executions have been carried out on boys who were not even 18 years old at the time of the crime. djalali's story is a tragedy. the iranian-swedish researcher was sentenced to death on a preposterous charge of espionage. unjustly detained, tortured, held in solitary confinement and denied medical treatment, subjected to a process that international observers have described as grossly unfair. the death sentence and its imminent execution are unthinkable acts which should be condemned in the strongest terms by the international community. yet here you do nothing. the islamic regime in iran continues to commit crimes against humanity often justifying them with religious motives. how long will europe be silent? how long are we going to keep this quiet? assuming that someone really thinks that a resolution can solve something.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in saudi arabia with regard to respect for human rights is dramatic. the recent execution of mustafa hashem al-darwish is a confirmation of what has been happening in the country for some time, just think of the murder of journalist jamal khashoggi, the tragic humanitarian and political situation in yemen, the detention of human rights defenders, activists, including raif badawi. contrary to what is being claimed by the propaganda machine, human rights activists and saudi citizens remain under constant threat every day. we therefore call on all eu representatives to follow president biden's example and not to consider prince mohammad bin salman as a legitimate interlocutor in any way. we ask all european politicians in every country to do the same. let's end this dangerous relationship with prince mohammad bin salman. it tramples on our values.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for being here, certainly with us, when we talk about these things it would be important that the commissioner for competition was also there, because i am absolutely convinced that the aviation crisis was not born with covid, which certainly accentuated it, but it is also not dependent on management errors, which certainly there were also, but it is impossible that too many mistakes have been made and that the business model is not profitable for so many subjects in such a rich and important continent. so i think that in the light of all this we will also have to consider the possibility of changing these competition rules, which have created a situation where airlines are too often in a position to be competitive to squeeze workers' rights or passengers' rights, which we cannot accept in either case. there is an example in my country, air italy, a company that is in liquidation, a crisis that has been going on since before covid and we need, with social law instruments, to introduce and continue to invest in shock absorbers that serve to ensure that the professions, especially the flight staff, are guaranteed, expertise given by patents, by licenses that must be renewed, because otherwise these subjects will no longer be able to enter the world of work, perhaps even on new subjects that will appear on the market we hope with medium and long-term prospects. but that is why the european commission must act without ideological prejudice and without ideological fury, because it is clear that we are facing a social impact, but we must also preserve a heritage of professionalism that workers throughout europe have acquired in recent years and that must be preserved to make us competitive for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european centre for disease prevention and control was set up in 2005 with the aim of creating a network for the surveillance of infectious diseases. today we are discussing the european commission's proposal to strengthen this centre by giving it new powers and tasks that go far beyond the monitoring of infectious diseases, providing for close inspections and controls in national health systems. this would mean serious interference by the european union in the health policies of the member states, a kind of commissioning of national health systems, in clear violation of the principle of subsidiarity laid down in the treaties. it is worth remembering that the primary responsibility and responsibility for protecting the health of european citizens is and must remain with the member states. in health matters, the european union has neither exclusive nor competitive competence with the other member states, but only limited competence to supplement, within well-defined limits, the action of the states. in other words, the european union has no legislative competence in this area, and can only adopt non-binding recommendations. article 17 of the treaty itself states that the european commission is the guardian. let the commission therefore be the first to set a good example. the covid-19 pandemic cannot and must not become yet another pretext for the european union to assume new and additional competences that are not its own. the national health is not touched.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, i would first like to thank you for this report. i would say that this parliament adopts a great many important reports which contribute to the development of our economic and social life, but also to our international action. this report is part of a new logic, which is that of a particular economic development. it's digital, it's 'digital', these are activities that have developed, especially in the context of the pandemic, with astonishing speed. so i would say that these activities and services that the platforms provide correspond to a real demand, since practically everyone of us uses these platforms from time to time, some more often than others, young people, many of us. but i also know that it is the young people, precisely, since it is mainly young people who work on the platforms, with or for the platforms, who will follow our debates and who, above all, have expectations with regard to the conclusions. this commission has made a strong commitment. madam rapporteur, as you have said, we need to develop the digital economy, and we must do so in a way that respects social rules, social protection and fundamental labour law. and so today we see that many young people who travel through our cities on their bicycles, their bicycles or their motorcycles sometimes, have no protection, no guarantee. and if they get into an accident, which happens a lot, they're left with nothing and no health insurance. the pandemic has also revealed many similar situations in europe, but especially outside europe. that is why what we are doing today with your report and what we will do with a proposal on the platforms will be for europe, but it will go beyond. we see the same problems, the same concerns and the same demands being expressed pretty much everywhere, including, by the way, as i said, in the part of the world where, finally, the digital economy was invented: california. that is why now is the time to act. this is not about diminishing the importance of the platform economy, it is about giving it a framework. first of all, it is a question of giving it legal certainty, because it is not normal that in an internal market the rules are the same in one country and very different in another, especially when there is also trade across borders. so that's the first element. the second is to give certainty, guarantee, security to those who work for the platforms. for all those hundreds, even millions of young people who, perhaps not mainly, but occasionally, and often many, work for these platforms. you have listed the different dimensions, which are first of all status. and i agree with you on that. it is not a question of imposing a status. the aim is to ensure that every worker on the platforms, regardless of their status, has social guarantees. and then, we can't be the objects of robots or artificial intelligence. our demand is that artificial intelligence has a human dimension. we cannot accept that workers are being monitored, judged, evaluated and sometimes lost their jobs simply because the algorithm is programmed that way. so we need a framework so that what is called algorithmic management is clear and that workers' rights are established, that there is transparency in this regard. so these are the issues that we're going to have to deal with. i must say to you, madam rapporteur, and to all those who have worked on this report, that you have helped us. you've identified the issues, the problems, and you've outlined the right solutions, like the burden of proof reversal, which is a tool to bring clarity and rights to everyone who works on the platforms. thank you very much, again. you know that we are practically, i would say, every day at work. today i had two meetings on this subject and the commission will come at the end of this year with a proposal which will surely be inspired by the work you have done.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. for more than 100 years, workers across europe have fought for the right to a good working life, but unfortunately many of the very great gains are being rolled back. platform companies like uber, wolt and deliveroo have not only brought innovation and new thinking, they have also brought with them insecure working conditions that are mostly like something from the old days. it's hit the transportation industry like that. when drivers and passengers drive around without insurance or safety equipment, they expose themselves to serious dangers. when thousands of people are stuck in unpredictable zero-hour contracts, they lose the ability to plan their own daily lives and finances. it's just not good enough. we can do a lot better. but now the platform companies are dreaming that we are creating a so-called "third category" between employees and employers so that they can continue to avoid general employer liability. the 'light wage earner' category will be toxic to europe's social labour market model, and we in parliament must firmly reject it. we must avoid a and b teams and establish that a worker is a worker.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, platform workers represent maybe the newest form of work of the new millennium. their numbers have increased with no bounds. let me say that we are not afraid of innovations. we are not afraid of these disturbing and dystonic times in which you click a button and a pizza meravigliosa arrives directly in your kitchen. we are not afraid even of flexibility – if it is a good thing. but innovations and transformations in the labour market have to move forward with social protection – the safeguarding of the dignity and safety of workers. social rights are, at the very end of the day, human rights. we have been ambitious here. there is a three—step revolution going on. the rebuttable presumption of the employment relationship – if you have an obligation as an employee, you must have a right as an employee. there is no third way. we have put the burden and charge of solving eventual court conflicts between a platform and workers on the shoulders of platforms, of employers. finally, transparency and clear information coming from algorithms. we do not want to see any more shameful salaries in what we call a ‘democratic europe’. we don’t want to see new forms of slavery in what we call a ‘social europe’. we don’t want to see forms of labour force exploitation and abuse in what we call a ‘fair europe’. we do not ask much. we ask simply for a good balance between rights and duties, between economic growth and social compensation. we ask to build a new social, progressive, compassionate europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are about to vote on is of historic importance, because parliament is taking a clear stand in defence of workers on the platforms, victims of exploitation and precariousness based on legal uncertainty, unfair wages, opaque and pervasive algorithms. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'employee' in the definition of workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'employee' in the definition of workers. as the five star movement we are pleased to have contributed decisively to the final version of this resolution, thanks to our amendments which have all been included in the compromise. the new directive will be the cornerstone, along with those on the right to disconnect and the minimum wage, on which to build a socially fair recovery, ensuring protection in step with the transformations of the labour market to achieve the new european social model.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 10 000 workers in italy who work on digital platforms, the so-called riders. we are talking about a turnover of 900 million euros. there are over 100 000 of them in europe, and it is a job that is constantly expanding and easily accessible to all. however, the people who are engaged in this type of work are often very young boys, they have to work very long night shifts, they are paid 2 euros per delivery, they have no sick days, they have no holidays and they are not insured in case of accidents. think about it, i'm on the road 10 or 12 hours a day. there's no easter, there's no christmas, there's no new year's, they work on saturday and sunday. sadly, because of this economic crisis and unemployment, many fathers are forced into this type of work. we must all work together to ensure greater dignity for these workers and, above all, greater rights. this must be done in accordance with european standards and the laws of the individual member states.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in plenary on the report on fair working conditions, rights and social protection for workers in the platforms is an important milestone for the new forms of employment linked to digital development. in fact, work on digital platforms has raised concerns about precariousness, poor working conditions, lack of adequate social protection or difficulty in accessing it, unfair competition, undeclared work, fragmented and unpredictable incomes and working hours, lack of dispute resolution mechanisms, disqualification and lack of career opportunities, and lack of occupational health and safety measures. i must, however, point out some points which do not satisfy us in the report and i therefore ask the commissioner to consider further in future acts the invitation to the commission to examine progress in the member states in the field of social protection and the european semester. it is also agreeable to stress the importance of training, even if the commission is then asked to tackle the problem of education and training of workers on digital platforms, which is not its responsibility. the commission is also invited to consider establishing a 'european quality label' for digital platforms: what is the purpose of a european quality label, apart from going a little further? shouldn't all platforms be able to respect and guarantee the same rights? do you want to create a series a platform and a series b platform? we shall try to do our bit to encourage this, but we are comforted by the fact that history outside parliament often gives us back the reason that is denied us in this house.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to do in the next ten years what has been done in the last thirty, which is not bad, i would say, for a post-pandemic context, so i think we need at least to ask questions. for example, this morning i did not hear adequate reflections on the trend in bills for businesses and consumers. not a word about the increased demand for water, as the extraction of rare earths and the increased metals that this green revolution requires will require more water to drain. not a word about the co2 emissions in europe over the last 30 years, which have been negated by the emissions trends in the rest of the world. so the others pollute, while in europe imposing more restrictive legislation. it is an environmentalism which i consider to be short-sighted, which follows the fashion and which is a blind eye to the rich, since i do not know how many people will be able to have fully electric cars in 13 years' time. the billions of dollars from the recovery fund will go to china, a country on which we are increasingly dependent technologically, since 60% of the raw materials for this revolution will be imported from this country. so this is a design that will ultimately replace europe's dependence on middle eastern oil with that of chinese technology, for the sake of international competition, which is a very good example. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us be careful because this is no longer europeanism, but collaborationism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has decided that in just 14 years' time, internal combustion cars will no longer be produced in europe. we in the league are not prejudiced against the green deal but we believe that the energy transition must be made feasible and above all progressive. it is not possible to convert armies of workers into computer technicians capable of programming an electric car overnight, nor can the vast chain of production of combustion engine components be converted into software. the real risk is the closure of many, many businesses, hundreds of thousands of unemployed, with the paradox that most consumers will not be able to afford an expensive electric vehicle. the commission should therefore slow down this mad race towards climate neutrality and put green measurement and common sense back at the centre of its policies.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the natural disasters of summer 2021 are just the tip of the iceberg, because we have been receiving alarming signals all over europe for some time now. italy has been hit by a series of fires that will cost about a billion euros, in addition to the incalculable impact on the entire ecosystem and on the lives of citizens. consider that my region, veneto, is consistently among the most economically affected by natural disasters: heavy hailstorms destroy crops and frequent floods and mudslides have a negative impact on our producers. the specter of another vaia storm, which devastated veneto in 2018, frightens us all. if it is true that the recent phenomena represent a systemic problem, then we have a duty to equip enterprises with the appropriate instruments to support and react to them, but above all to prevent such phenomena. this is why solidarity and the union's civil protection mechanism must be strengthened. and then we need to make our small and medium-sized enterprises resilient and less vulnerable to climate change, through a path of gradual accompaniment, which does not add burdens and costs to businesses. the key words are gradualness and adaptation: this is the only way to tackle climate adversity and to enable our businesses to be prepared to respond.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the floods and the scorching heat that have hit europe this summer are yet another proof of the devastating consequences of climate change. what seems to be an exceptional phenomenon today, alas, risks becoming a permanent reality if we do not reverse course. in italy alone, more than 500 fires have broken out, with enormous costs for firefighting operations, followed by those to rebuild flora, fauna and agricultural activities, as well as the remediation of the affected areas. the european union must therefore rise to the challenge, using all the instruments at its disposal to deal with the emergency, refinancing the solidarity fund and developing regional strategies for adaptation to climate change. it is absolutely essential that this extraordinary expenditure be incorporated into the stability pact so that it does not become a burden on the budgets of the member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me express once again my condolences to the victims of the floods in germany and the fires in southern europe. italy has suffered just under 20 000 deaths from natural disasters in the last 20 years, and ranks sixth in the world in terms of the number of victims, while at the economic level it has suffered losses of some eur 28 billion as a direct consequence of disasters. in the mountains, in particular, in addition to fires, we have more and more floods which cause floods and landslides, often due to neglect and neglect of the territory. to return to protecting these areas, we need to encourage a more extensive and conscious use, allowing agriculture and pastoralism to be structured and to be able to return to being the guardians of those lands that today, too often, are abandoned. but if we want to save the mountain and the countryside and the people who live there, we have to protect the countryside: there can be no life without work. europe is too often blinded by its environmental ideology, imposing laws and restrictions which, when taken at face value, serve neither to preserve the environment nor to ensure its sustainability. i'd like to close by thanking all the firefighters and all the volunteers who have risked their lives to protect our beloved territories.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me take this opportunity to thank someone whose work is too often taken for granted: i am referring in particular to the volunteers of the italian civil protection, who also in this summer of fires and natural disasters have made themselves available and, in a spirit of service, have served the country even at the risk of their own lives. but i would like to mention in particular the glorious civil protection of friuli venezia giulia, the region from which i come, which in august, instead of going on holiday, decided to go quietly and courageously to support the other volunteers who were putting out the fires in sicily, sardinia and other regions of italy. volunteers who, earlier, did not hesitate for a moment to take up the call of the eu civil protection mechanism to go to help our croatian neighbours following the earthquakes that shook their territories. not to mention, in the darkest moment of the pandemic, the organization to distribute the first masks to the population to protect themselves from the virus. i would like to thank all the volunteers, you are the pride of italy and europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i accuse, i accuse the west of lacking passion. you who were born of passion, you who became a people because of the passion of your revolution. so you don't understand what's driving your enemies, our enemies. you don't understand what it is that allows him to fight so global and ruthlessly this war against the west. it's the passion. the power of passion, my dear! it's the faith that comes from passion. it's the hate that comes from passion. i'm not going to die. i'm not going to fight. they're ready to die, to blow themselves up, to kill us. to destroy us both. and their leaders, (real leaders), the same. i knew him, khomeini. i talked to him, i argued with him, for over six hours on two different days. and i'm telling you, that was a man of passion. that he was driven by faith, by passion. i didn't know bin laden. that's too bad. but i watched him on tv. i looked him in the eye, i heard his voice, and i can tell you that's a man of passion. that it is moved by faith, hatred that comes from passion. to fight their passion, to defend our culture, that is, our identity and our civilization, armies are not enough. we don't need the tanks, the nukes, the bombers. it takes passion. the power of passion. and if you don't get this one out, we don't get it out, i'm telling you, you're going down. that we will be defeated. i tell you, we'll go back to the tents in the desert, we'll end up like wells without water. wake up, then! the european union is a global player in the field of education.
in writing. the images from afghanistan in the last few weeks have left us all in shock. in a matter of days, the taliban's rise to power has erased 20 years of economic and social progress and wiped out any hope of a country where every woman and girl could receive a proper education and be fulfilled professionally. day by day the humanitarian situation is becoming more serious, and contrary to the taliban government's announcements, women's rights are beginning to fail. one thing must be clear: there will never be cooperation or recognition of a government that systematically tramples on every type of human right. we need joint action at european and international level to provide relief to a population in distress, to create specific humanitarian corridors for women and children and to prevent an uncontrolled wave of migration, since fundamentalist and terrorist cells could be lurking among the refugees. to this end, it will be essential to work to prevent afghanistan from becoming, once again, a new stronghold for islamic terrorist organisations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened to the high representative very carefully and i have to say that i can only agree with what he said, but it is clear that the situation has been under the eyes of everyone for many years. since the murder of hariri, it has probably been possible to intervene even earlier in what is a situation of political instability due to a situation that perhaps does not exist in the rest of the world, at the level of religious, ethnic or political affiliation complication. in short, it is not easy in that field, and it is not even more so for us, who perhaps as europeans - i do not mean only as european institutions - are sometimes particularly irrelevant in relation to the world dynamics. perhaps it is because we all have to do more and probably, indeed absolutely, i and my political party are also involved. as has been said, there is an incredible capacity of the lebanese people to withstand an incredible situation. i would add that, in relation to what you said, external interference makes everything much more complicated: the role of hezbollah, the funding from iran, the issue of the huge numbers of refugees being welcomed in such a weak and troubled country. we can learn from the french, both in government and in opposition, who have a strong historical and political focus, because i would not like the attention of the other member states of the union and the european institutions to be less. let's see what this new government can do.
mr president, mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is a good example of how we can build open strategic autonomy. i therefore invite you to build bridges of diplomacy. the european union, the eurasian economic union and the shanghai cooperation organisation share a broad area of development: the eurasian continent. and let's not forget the eastern economic forum, which connects the arctic to the pacific. we are aware of this strategic interest for europe and we are not tired of seeking dialogue and of persuading russia that promoting peace, justice and fundamental rights is the right way and above all the cornerstone on which russia's glory has been built for centuries: christianity is dead. convincing russia that the challenges posed by china are more dangerous than those posed by the west will be our policy line.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the very bad state of political relations between the european union and russia is a glaring fact which we cannot deny and which must of course be taken into account, with due clarity also in dealing with the consequences. the union, its democratic processes and those of its member states have long been under attack with more or less obvious attempts at interference by foreign powers: russia is one of them, perhaps the most explicit, and it has found political accomplices in europe who are also willing to support it, accomplices who are also sitting in this house. we are rightly becoming aware of this, but we must also put in place all the necessary instruments to defend our values and our democracy. we must now do more, we must decisively strengthen our relationship with russian civil society, which, despite a thousand difficulties, is trying today to build spaces of alternative and democracy, to promote freedom of information and civil rights, to fight against all discrimination. this part of russia must be our ally.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, corruption and money laundering, and has also been asked to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the programme. no, this is not acceptable! using emerging technologies to expand coercion and consolidate intrusion, emptying individual privacy is not ethical nor is it human-centric. these aspects make china a disaster and we remind russia of this in particular. we therefore call on the member states and the external service to invest in closer cooperation with democratic partners with whom we share values, values of humanity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all familiar with the china dossier, which is very complex, and i must say that the resolution, compared with a somewhat more timid attitude of parliament in the past, is, i think, more ambitious. it is certainly the rapporteur's fault, the fault of those who worked on this dossier, but also because the situation has deteriorated considerably: the situation in the south china sea; the provocations in taiwan; the interference in very sensitive areas, like afghanistan; africa being plundered by china; the countries that are also in debt. then, in the committee on international trade (inta), we talk a lot about some aspects: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but all this is no longer valid if we are not brave and strong enough to demand respect and defend defenceless citizens in the face of human rights issues, hong kong and beyond.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by creating a reserve fund to mitigate the consequences of brexit, the european union has tried to react quickly and in solidarity. in the difficult negotiations we have ensured that the measures adopted are sufficient and appropriate, including the inclusion in the final text of precise environmental protection criteria. our aim at this particularly delicate stage will be to ensure that european businesses can withstand the economic shock, even in the long term, by constantly monitoring the transition and by responding promptly through any future adjustments. finally, our priority will be to continue to support businesses facing new export arrangements to the united kingdom and all european citizens who have decided to return to their countries of origin.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think the interventions by honourable members confirm, first of all, the importance of the tool we are using. so i reiterate my appreciation for this report on implementation, thanking mr giegold and the shadow rapporteurs. it’s a form of scrutiny, also of commission activity, and we will cover some of the recommendations in your report in what we call dac8 at the beginning of next year. we all know, of course, that there is a long way to go. we need to strike a balance between the national dimension and european cooperation, and global cooperation, because we know that many of these issues are also at the centre of decisions taken at oecd and global level. what is important, i think, along this rather long way, is that we make progress and we work together. so let me just conclude by saying that we continue to count on your pressure and your support to make this way shorter, if possible, and to make progress in this common fight against tax fraud and evasion.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you colleagues for this exchange and many welcoming words. thanks a lot to the commission, in particular to the commitment in the opening speech to include most of our ideas in the dac8 revision. now, in the closing speech, some we will see and hope that it will be rather most than some. we are looking forward to what will be coming, but thanks for this commitment. we would welcome also a clear commitment to start immediately on infringement proceedings when it comes to the lack of effective implementation, which is actually the key issue of our report. i would like to say on the access to documents that we regarded as highly doubtful that parliament can be treated less welcoming by the commission and the member states than an individual citizen. you referred to the framework agreement and therefore the part in my report, and nobody has questioned that. we are calling on parliament to use all legal means at its disposal in order to get the needed documents. this is actually what we now have to do up to a court proceeding if this is in the end needed, because this infringement, this report on effective implementation, we couldn’t do it properly. we say this also clearly: it is an incomplete report and we have to complete that work but for this, we need the documents from the member states and, if needed, we have to go to court for this. then we have the debate on tax sovereignty. i only would like to say that the treaty doesn’t give all the competences over direct taxation to the member states. this is an incorrect reading of the treaty. it only puts a unanimity requirement for this, and this has led to the unfortunate situation that for this directive, we are now working on the eighth version in only 15 years. so this unanimity requirement leads to a lack of good lawmaking and excessive bureaucracy to companies and obliges taxpayers in order to deal with these ever changing rules. therefore, i will welcome if you could support my amendment to a move towards a majority voting. equally, tax competition. the amendment of the ecr, which, by the way, unfortunately did not contribute to the work unlike all the other groups, the amendment to support tax competition and see the welcoming and positive aspects. it has fallen out of time in a period when at oecd level, on global level, at european level, we move from a tax-competition model to a tax-cooperation model and therefore, colleagues, please do not support such damaging wording. last point, when it comes to naming problems, this parliament must be courageous. it is not good that some groups have asked for deleting romania from the findings, and it’s equally not good not to speak clearly about new revelations on luxembourg. let us be courageous and don’t do party politics on this. let us name and shame where things are not working well, and therefore i appeal to your support to my report and also refuting all the weakening amendments. thanks for your work and we will continue together on this.
in writing. i consider that a stronger fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion is of paramount importance for the recovery and recovery from the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus. that is why i support the initiatives in the report which call for an improvement in the exchange of tax information between member states. quality information is essential for effective action in member states to combat tax evasion and tax fraud. everyone has to pay taxes. for the rich, for the big companies, for those who try to escape their money to tax havens. the rules should therefore be designed in such a way as to prevent tax fraudsters from enjoying the benefits of the single market and the interoperability of borders. in addition, it is also important for sustainable economic growth and the repayment of borrowed funds that member state governments establish and maintain balanced and competitive tax systems. one that best serves their own economic interests. one that provides a sound and stable environment for investment and investment that creates jobs for citizens. europe's competitiveness also improves as member states become more competitive. the left must be reminded again and again that tax policy is a matter for the member states. instead of debates about sovereignty and powers that divide, i suggest that the left also focus its efforts on initiatives that help the unity of the union, increase competitiveness and economic recovery in the member states.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it is clear that using spyware to hack into anyone’s smartphones is not acceptable. the expectation of privacy is a fundamental right, highly protected in all member states and by the european convention for human rights. only in very limited cases – for example, when there is a reasonable suspicion in criminal procedures – might a court, after carefully considering the specific case, justify such interference with private life. this is the rule of law standard across the european union. any indication that such an intrusion into privacy actually occurred needs to be thoroughly investigated, and all those responsible for a possible breach have to be brought to justice. this is, of course, the responsibility of each and every member state of the eu, and i expect that in the case of pegasus, the competent authorities will thoroughly examine the allegation and restore trust. such intrusions do not only lead to an interception of communication, which is contrary to the right to privacy and political freedoms, they also create a general climate of fear and distrust. honourable members, this situation is also a reminder of the need to reinforce european cybersecurity. this is not only about protecting economic activity or critical infrastructure. it is also about protecting electronic devices, such as smartphones, which have become almost an extension of ourselves and which encompass so much data, revealing both our personal lives and our professional activities. the eu is constantly stepping up its efforts in the area of cybersecurity, and it is a key priority for the slovenian presidency. there is, for example, an ongoing effort to analyse the security threats to the eu institutions in order to enable appropriate action, prevention and mitigation of risk. i look forward to the debate and your contribution today. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. other madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i would like to thank you first of all for the debate this afternoon on the pegasus case, in which i am also speaking on behalf of my colleague, commissioner thierry breton, who was unable to be present this afternoon. several recent reports indicate that some national security services have used pegasus spyware to gain direct access to the devices of citizens, including journalists and political opponents. first of all, let me say that the commission strongly condemns any illegal access to systems or any form of illegal interception of user communications. in fact, it is a crime throughout the union thanks to the directive on attacks against information systems. the commission has already stressed the need to put in place a robust cybersecurity strategy and strong protection of fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, which are its main priorities. the privacy and electronic communications directive (e-privacy) guarantees the right to privacy and confidentiality of electronic communications. this directive prohibits in principle the interception or surveillance of communications without the consent of the users concerned. in addition, the directive protects the integrity of users' terminal equipment - laptops, mobile phones, etc. generally, user consent is required to store information or to access information already stored on the user's terminal equipment, with a few exceptions which are not relevant here. the european court of justice has confirmed that member states may restrict the confidentiality and integrity of communications only for strictly limited purposes and subject to the principles of necessity and proportionality, on the basis of obligations laid down by law and subject to strict material and procedural safeguards. the privacy and electronic communications regulation will further strengthen the confidentiality of communications and the protection of the integrity of end-user terminal equipment. among other things, the regulation will strengthen the enforcement powers of the authorities and increase the level of fines. it is therefore essential that parliament and the council agree very quickly on a compromise on this very important piece of legislation. in addition, processing of personal data falls, in principle, within the scope of the general data protection regulation and the data protection law enforcement directive. if the purpose is the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences and the processing is carried out by competent authorities, such as authorities tasked with criminal investigations, the controllers have only to comply with all the obligations laid down in the gdpr or the law enforcement directive in addition to the e-privacy rules. data processed by public authorities for national security purposes may fall in certain cases outside the scope of eu data protection laws. in any case, the privacy of communication and the protection of personal data is always subject to strict safeguards under the european convention on human rights and the constitutional laws of the member states. it is for national authorities to demonstrate that such processing is necessary and proportionate for national security purposes. the national competent authorities are responsible for the enforcement of data protection and privacy rules under the control of the courts. it is precisely because the european union has adopted data protection rules such as the eprivacy directive, the gdpr and the law enforcement directive that the competent authorities can take action against privacy or personal data breaches. the report on the pegasus breaches, in fact, shows the need for such rules. the commission is following the matter closely. we understand that the hungarian data protection authority launched an ex officio investigation into the pegasus case on 5 august and that it has the power to investigate matters related to the secret surveillance and processing of classified information. it is expected that the hungarian data protection authority will release further information once the investigation is concluded. the normal duration of such an investigation is two months, which can, however, be extended in order to give the controllers time to answer information requests. currently the commission is taking specific measures to improve the cybersecurity of connected devices, including by way of a delegated act under the radio equipment directive which is expected to be adopted soon. the mix of measures envisaged by the new eu cybersecurity strategy, issued in mid-december 2020, will allow operators, especially critical ones, to shore up their cybersecurity defenses, with particular attention to securing their supply chain and relying on solutions secured by design. together with the new eu cybersecurity strategy, on 16 december 2020 we made a proposal for a revised nis directive to enhance the cyber-resilience of entities and networks. the nis ii proposal raises the eu common level of ambition on cybersecurity through a wider scope, clearer rules and stronger supervision tools. in addition, the commission announced in the new strategy that it would explore new horizontal rules to improve the cybersecurity of all connected products and associated services placed on the internal market. such rules could include a new duty of care for connected-device manufacturers to address software vulnerabilities, including security updates, and ensuring deletion of sensitive data at the end of life. moreover, the directive on attacks against information systems requires all member states to ensure that illegal access to information systems and illegal interception are defined as criminal offences in their national criminal law and that high common levels of penalties for these offences are in place as a deterrent effect. still on cybersecurity, let me come back to what president von der leyen put forward during the state of the union speech before this parliament this morning. she made clear that we should not just be satisfied with addressing the cyber threats but also strive to become a leader in cybersecurity. this is why we need a european cyber defence policy, including legislation on common standards under a new european cyber resilience act. protecting journalists and media professionals against online threats or illegal surveillance will be part of an upcoming recommendation on the safety of journalists announced under the european democracy action plan, scheduled to be adopted tomorrow. the recommendation will highlight the importance of cooperation between online platforms and organizations with expertise in tackling threats against journalists, as well as the role of national cybersecurity bodies in helping journalists in those kinds of situations. in conclusion, as more information is becoming available on the pegasus case, we continue to look closely into the matter. no illegal access to information or communication systems or any kind of illegal interception to users' communications or devices is allowed in the european union. the union has a robust data protection and privacy acquis, which needs to be respected with the collaboration of all concerned. we count on the close cooperation of all relevant authorities in order to ensure that all fundamental rights are respected. thank you very much for your attention, but of course i am looking forward to hearing your remarks, observations and interventions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, the pegasus spyware scandal sheds light on an outrageous attack on democracy around the world. it also exposes just how unprotected are our data and privacy against malicious exploitation and manipulation. first and foremost, there is an urgent need to enforce legislation to hold accountable those who distribute, use and abuse such software for illicit and unauthorised purposes. second, it raises serious questions regarding a dark truth. we are not doing enough to ensure that the eu itself is a safe place for journalists and democratic activists. even when on eu soil, they continue to be harassed, illegally surveilled and, worse, attacked by the authoritarian regimes they sought to escape. such acts represent a grave violation of the fundamental values of our union. finally, the pegasus scandal serves as a critical reminder that we need to be vigilant toward any attack on media freedom. we in the european parliament should not hesitate to call out any erosion of media freedom, especially when it takes place in the european union, as the pegasus scandal has shown in the case of hungary. the eu must take a key role in investigating this scandal without any delay or political hesitation. commissioner, i would like to thank you for providing us with insight on what the commission is doing, and will intend to do, regarding the investigation of pegasus’s actions.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we are facing a massive surveillance campaign by several national intelligence services: at least 50,000 accounts were monitored, including those of journalists, human rights activists, political opponents, and even the heads of many governments. the functioning of our democratic systems, freedom of the press, freedom of expression of activists is under attack. it is not a new danger. we have also been reporting to the commission for several years on serious abuses of this instrument, but nothing has been done so far. we cannot trust the reassurances of nso, the spyware company, that they are examining their customers on the basis of their respect for human rights, as many of their customers, such as azerbaijan, the united arab emirates, saudi arabia, show huge gaps in this field. not only that: the member states of the union, and i am thinking in particular of hungary, must explain how they have used this instrument.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an illegitimate political attempt to overthrow the elected conservative governments in poland and hungary and replace them with socialist governments, and i am bitter that the epp is lining up for this. in pursuing this endeavour, we are witnessing every day the exploitation of the concept of the rule of law. today, this motion is even ridiculous: the law under accusation is a law that seeks to protect national media from the risk of falling into non-european hands, such as those of russia or china for example. that is not bad, but the ridiculous thing is that this law does not even exist, because the polish senate rejected it a few days ago, in the normal parliamentary dialectic that normally takes place in all european democracies. to those who would bend the freedom of the polish people, i would like to recall the words of a great polish man, st. john paul ii: "trust is not earned by force, it is earned".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we too are convinced that protecting women from violence is crucial, and it is therefore inconceivable that the left should exploit such a sensitive subject to carry on their ideological battles, which have nothing to do with protecting women. let 's get this straight . the aim today is to introduce discrimination on the basis of gender identity as a minimum standard in national criminal codes. so if i say that every child needs a mommy and a daddy, am i discriminating? if i find the surrogacy to be an aberrant practice, do i have to be charged? the mechanism is clear, it's the same one that is being used in italy with the ddl zan: amend the penal code to include discrimination based on gender identity. in some countries, like mine, thousands of citizens have taken to the streets to defend their freedoms. since feminists, liberals and even some members of the lgbt community have said they disagree, then should a nice rule be dropped from brussels to make gender identity a european crime? we're not staying here! stop using violence against women or the disabled as leverage to try to muzzle those who don't think like you! while the italian parliament is legitimately escorting mr zan to the door, you are imposing the same content from brussels, which is absurd! there is even an attempt to use education as a crutch to impose an ideology on the younger generation. i'm sorry to disappoint you, but in lazio, the region where i come from, we've already blocked guidelines for schools that had the same goal. ladies and gentlemen, if we want to talk seriously about violence against women and discrimination, we are in the front line, but if the only intention is to impose ideological dictates, you cannot count on our support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the un summit on food systems on 23 september is a historic opportunity to lead the recovery from the pandemic and achieve all 17 sustainable development goals (sdgs) by 2030. food systems, production, distribution and consumption are fundamental to achieving sdgs and therefore need to be made healthier, more sustainable and fairer. the eu has made sdgs a guiding principle of its policies, but the elimination of hunger by 2030 is currently a pipe dream, and the pandemic has highlighted the fragility of systems and accentuated inequalities. the eu must therefore take the lead in the zero hunger goal and impose a rapid transition to sustainable agri-food systems, such as farm to fork, and this question is in the right direction, but europe must also stimulate partner countries and their local farmers, fishermen and producers to switch to sustainable practices, favouring only agreements that prioritise animal welfare, the end of pesticides, respect for human rights and the fight against antibiotic resistance. we therefore ask that these objectives, which are both ambitious and necessary for a better future, be pursued.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the goal of zero hunger in the world must be achieved without over-exploiting the environment or lowering the food quality standards that we have developed over time and which we hope will spread globally. food for all does not mean poor quality food, but rather that the quantitative effort must be accompanied by an improvement in quality, in accordance with the criteria of organic and biodynamic farming. we must therefore use all the tools available to us in europe and in the developing countries, starting with precision agriculture and moving on to all the solutions using artificial intelligence with simple solutions that are also applicable to the developing countries. technology applied intelligently can enable us to overcome the quality/quantity dichotomy by providing everyone with the right and healthy food.
mr president, commissioner, after decades of steady decline, the number of people suffering from hunger started to rise again in 2015. current estimates show that nearly 700 million people, or 9 percent of the world's population, are already suffering from hunger and malnutrition. unfortunately, the world is not on track to end hunger by 2030, but i feel like it's moving away from that goal. the culprits, of course, are primarily the conflicts that are going on in many of the poorest regions, climate change, that's for sure, and the economic downturn in the poorest parts of the world, and also the covid-19 pandemic, of course. the eu, in cooperation with the other developed countries of the world, must take swift decisions and take the necessary measures to ensure food and humanitarian aid reaches the most vulnerable regions. the opportunity for change is already the un summit in september, which will also be on food systems, and i believe that the member states will be able to push through the council conclusions adopted in brussels in may this year. because to feed the more than 690 million hungry people today and the two billion more who will be added to the world's population by the end of 2050, a profound change in the global food and agriculture system is needed. i would like to highlight the important role that the eu's 'farm to fork' strategy can also play in protecting food quality, extending shelf life and ensuring food safety and facilitating food exports. it should also provide farmers with the necessary income. i therefore expect the commission to communicate how the eu can specifically help the world's hungry countries and what financial resources can be allocated to this in the eu budget. we must emphasize that it is hunger in the world that will drive migration, fuel terrorism and create social tensions. we want to prevent that.
mr president, this oral question is part of the united nations summit on food systems which will take place at the end of the month. it is clever, because it makes it possible to legitimize this summit in european circles. however, civil society actors denounced the summit as a strategy of influence by agro-industry and agro-chemical multinationals at the expense of institutions such as the special food council of the fao. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support an attempt to take over the world food governance by the false nose of a few billionaire foundations. states, farmers' organisations and all stakeholders cannot be deliberately left out of the picture, in order to roll out the red carpet to the most risky technological solutions, but the most profitable for a few. let's not be fooled. we know that hunger in the world is not linked to a lack of production. it is the consequence of the growing inequalities. and we also know that to fight hunger effectively, we need a fair distribution of agricultural and fisheries resources and to defend food sovereignty, that is, the ability of people to control their food.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is distressing to see that the post-covid world is not on track to meet the goal of ending hunger and achieving food security by 2030. and it's even sadder to have to admit that we probably won't even reach the maternal, infant and young child nutrition targets by 2025, as set by the who assembly. we therefore strongly urge the commission to take this very disheartening and worrying fact as a starting point, now that we must plan our support for a global transition to fair and sustainable food systems. women - i say this to the commissioner who knows this but must inform the whole commission - and in particular women in urban areas, who make up 43% of the agricultural labour force, are therefore the indispensable and indispensable actors in the fight against hunger and malnutrition, and the primary responsible for the growth and development of children and children. especially in response to the covid crisis, eu funding and programmes should now ensure that food security strategies always take a gender approach on the one hand, and implement concrete measures for children on the other: the commission has already made a number of proposals.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen: 'sovereignty at home, charity in the south'. that is the european food strategy in a nutshell. sovereignty is the basis of a resilient society. food self-sufficiency is the minimum level of food requirements to which all countries in the world should be entitled. similarly, eradicating world hunger by 2030, as the un puts it, is not an option, but an obligation. but these objectives will remain unattainable as long as the european union continues to undo with one hand what it claims to be building with the other. officially, the union works for the good of humanity, but in practice it encourages its farmers to export en masse, with subsidies, especially to the south. a strategy that helps eradicate the local food-producing agricultural fabric and organizes dependence on our well-staged charity. i would like to know, commissioner, how the commission intends to reorient its trade policy to support the global transition to sustainable agri-food systems, in line with the 'farm to fork' strategy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the food question is absolutely central to the achievement of all the sustainable development goals. the way we produce, distribute and consume food inevitably determines what the world of tomorrow will be, its environmental and social sustainability. this is why it is tragic to see - as ms toia said earlier - that the path to a healthier, more sustainable and equitable global food system is now sorely delayed and that the goals of eliminating hunger by 2030 are far off, in a context where covid has clearly accentuated fragility and inequalities. there is also - and this is a good thing to remember - a strong connection between human rights, land and sustainable food systems, which puts people who live off the land at the centre and who are trying to defend it from the wild exploitation of resources. i believe that the union must stand by them with the utmost clarity, including by putting in place concrete instruments to defend their rights and their ability to live in dignity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the economic contraction caused by the pandemic has had a dramatic social and employment impact throughout the european union, especially in certain economic sectors. the current regulatory framework is clearly insufficient: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european employment strategy. the sure instrument itself did not guarantee coverage for all categories: for example, workers in the digital platform industry, which has seen a huge expansion in the last year and a half, do not have the same protections as other categories of workers. on the one hand it creates opportunities by reducing barriers to entry into the world of work, but on the other it raises serious concerns about the conditions under which they work. in addition, the effects of the pandemic have led to huge disparities between categories of workers, both employed and self-employed, and between permanent and fixed-term contracts. the consequences of the pandemic have unfortunately been situations incompatible with the levels of social well-being achieved over the years in the countries of the union, such as the endless queues of citizens in front of the entrances of humanitarian associations in order to secure a hot meal, despite the fact that a few months earlier they enjoyed more than decent incomes. it is the commission's primary task and duty to monitor these inequalities and put in place effective corrective instruments to eliminate them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the whole debate and i thank the commissioner for his comments. he was talking about vulnerable people here, just like some of you are talking about women, young people. i certainly agree with this, this is the area we should focus on, but i would also like to add to this debate the idea that i personally consider the most socially vulnerable self to be the smallest entrepreneur, the tradesman who supports himself, his family, possibly one or two employees, and then perhaps the liberal professions in the field of culture. again, people who are self-employed are not in employment, and the covid-19 crisis has often shaken their position very much. i say this from my experience in prague, where i am a representative, i manage a large museum of fine arts and i see how in the field of culture, especially for those who live by culture, that time was very socially depressing and how it damaged social statuses. so i ask you to focus on that area as well, commissioner. i would like to point out that the solutions you have presented here will certainly help to a large extent, but be careful that in the context of trying to help the most socially vulnerable, for example the minimum wage you mentioned, if it were to have a uniform european character, i would like to point out that in my country, the czech republic, this would endanger the smallest traders who employ one or two employees, and a possible european minimum wage standard would lead to the need to lay off one or two employees, and that this could, on the contrary, cause certain problems. so i welcome your vision, but i just want to make a small point about certain aspects that not only women, men, employees, but also the smallest self-employed have been threatened by this crisis.
mr president, commissioner schmit, first of all i would like to congratulate you on your strength and conviction at this late hour. the covid pandemic has so far caused more than 750 000 deaths in the union and has tested every cog, every piece of the social cog and of public policies, amplifying the crises, the threats, the challenges of our time. all of us who have been here, talking to him, asking him, have talked about a lot of things, but it's almost unfathomable. so what we have to conclude accordingly is that, at the very least, we have to strengthen the pillars of public policy for the future, because some of the things that are happening and that have happened must be absolutely unrepeatable. i'm just going to mention three: first, we can't ignore the impact of the virus on the most vulnerable, our seniors, in the early stages. as hard as it is to look back on this, we have to address triage so that it never happens again. secondly, in the case of people in residential care for disability, for age - for whatever - we have to study the absolute situation of emotional isolation so that something like this can never happen again. thirdly, as regards children, there is something very urgent that we must do: children from disadvantaged backgrounds in technological poverty have been excluded from the education system and it is now urgently time for the member states to do something to prevent this kind of failure in school. so, commissioner, force and the bull.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020 the average income from work in the european union fell by 7% compared to 2019 and the first estimates show that poverty is increasing. we are seeing a rise in inequality within our societies. in this context, accelerated by the pandemic, it is essential to start again with the tools that are finally adequate. we often talk about a breakthrough and this is the moment to make it happen, the moment for a social europe to be achieved through strong, integrated measures that are just, fair and built on the principles of the european social pillar, the principles that commissioner schmit has often referred to. the fight against poverty and exclusion, support for employment, particularly for women and young people, including by promoting even more sure, the issue of the minimum wage, the development of skills, housing policies for all, the guarantee of access to social and health services. this must be the heart of our project, a project incompatible with austerity policies.
author. – madam president, ahmed mansoor was convicted for his human rights advocacy. for the last 10 years, his rights under international and emirati law have been violated. ahmed has been subject to arbitrary arrest and detention, death threats, physical assault, government surveillance and inhuman treatment which amounts to torture. his arrest is a direct attack on the legitimate work of all human rights defenders in the emirates. the new counter—terrorism law, issued in 2014, is particularly worrying as it provides the authorities with broad powers to prosecute peaceful critics, political dissidents and human rights activists and to declare them terrorists. this law should be immediately changed in order to comply with international standards. meanwhile, the situation of human rights and freedoms in the country has dramatically worsened since 2011, and women continue to be subject to a range of discriminatory laws and practices. the personal status law remains, in this regard, a stumbling block for women’s equal rights. it is time to end our complacency towards a government engaged in the brutal repression of its human rights activists and regional destabilisation, while seeking to project the image of a moderate, reliable and stable partner. in that respect, the candidacy of general—major nasser ahmed al-raisi in the election for interpol’s presidency could call into question the credibility of the institution. the allegations of human rights abuses against him should be seriously considered before the election is held next november. the eu and its member states should do more to guarantee the respect of human rights in the country and make it a permanent item on the agenda of the annual summit between the eu and the gulf cooperation council. without clear guidelines and commitments, our human rights dialogue with the emirates will not result in any improvement of the situation. during his upcoming visit to the emirates, vice-president / high representative borrell should call for the immediate and unconditional release of ahmed mansoor and that of other human rights defenders like mohamed al-roken, and nasser bin ghaith. in our resolution, we call on the eu to consider the adoption of eu targeted measures against those responsible for grave human rights violations, including the persecution of ahmed mansoor and other human rights defenders under the eu global human rights sanctions regime.
author. madam president, the united arab emirates is the place that hosts corrupt leaders who have fled from justice, such as the former president of afghanistan or the king emeritus juan carlos i, while they massacre, repress and torture their people. ahmed mansur has been held in a six-foot cell for more than four years, with no contact with family or other prisoners. without it, he has no hot water or even a mattress to sleep on. one of the charges ahmed was charged with is based on e-mails, on wasaps, which were obtained through the interception of his communications via pegasus and other spy programs of european companies. but, hey, we said that in the 2018 resolution of this parliament. the european union and its companies have neither assumed any responsibility nor done anything to prevent this violation of human rights from continuing. in fact, countries like spain have been signing arms sales agreements and giving police training and offering sniper days, while the emirates kept activists and twitterers in prison. how can they continue to exchange weapons, security equipment, with the emirates while human rights are being violated? we therefore believe that it is time to demand the immediate release of mansur and all political prisoners; that an immediate moratorium on the sale, transfer and use of surveillance technology to the emirates be implemented; that a real arms embargo be established, because we cannot be complicit in the acts of repression and torture being committed in the emirates; and that political, trade and cooperation relations be conditioned on human rights outcomes. mansur said the only way to counter the repression in his country was to make it public. let's not let his denunciations cost him his life. we cannot continue to be silent accomplices by prioritising profits over human rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: ladies and gentlemen! this is not the first time that the european parliament has weighed in on the case of ahmed mansur, a human rights defender and activist who was awarded the martin ennals award for human rights defenders in 2015 for his long-standing work. in 2017, ahmed mansur was arrested and subsequently sentenced to 10 years in prison. this sentence was later upheld by the supreme court. the charges against ahmed mansoor are defamation, disorderly conduct, incitement and hate speech. however, the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights (ohchr) has assessed that the arrest of ahmed mansour and his 10-year prison sentence may have been retaliation for his involvement in un human rights activities and for his critical views towards the uae authorities. we cannot remain indifferent to this fact. the united arab emirates is a very important partner of the european union in the gulf, which continues its cooperation within the un and has a guarantee of freedom of opinion and freedom of assembly in its constitution. the authorities of the united arab emirates have also repeatedly stated their readiness to make further progress in the protection of human rights. he's a partner we can and should talk to. the dialogue between the european union and the united arab emirates on human rights is therefore of great importance. we should continue this dialogue and focus in particular on issues such as freedom of expression, the free functioning of independent media and the right to information. furthermore, i think we should engage the uae authorities in the debate on this particular case, the case of ahmed mansur, and also appeal to the uae authorities to re-examine his case and guarantee him a fair trial with the possibility of external observers. we also call on the united arab emirates to ensure that ahmed mansur is treated in accordance with the united nations basic principles for the treatment of prisoners, the so-called nelson mandela principles, and in particular that he has access to medical care of the same standard as free persons, access to medicines and access to his family or his legal counsel. it is important to emphasise that it is of the utmost importance that the uae respects its international human rights obligations and guarantees freedom of expression, which is also enshrined in the arab charter on human rights. we should therefore strongly support all reforms undertaken by the uae to better protect human rights and civil liberties. at the same time, good relations between the european union and the united arab emirates should be maintained, as they allow for a more intensive political dialogue, more effective union intervention on important issues, and cooperation and dialogue on key interests shared by both parties in such important areas as security, stability in the middle east and the fight against terrorism. the european union should continue to closely monitor the case of ahmed mansur and raise this issue in its dialogue with the united arab emirates, calling for a re-examination of his case.
author. – madam president, the united arab emirates is a key partner and ally of the european union in the arabian gulf. that is why we are deeply concerned about the persecution of human rights defenders in this country. i deplore the reports that ahmed mansoor has been subjected to forms of torture or ill treatment while in detention. indeed, prolonged and indefinite solitary confinement can be defined as such. i call on the united arab emirates’ authorities to live up to their international obligations, and urge the removal of mr mansoor from solitary confinement. fundamental rights, such as freedom of speech and expression, but also a fair trial, should always be respected. finally, while maintaining high—level political dialogue, the eu – and especially the high representative – should continue actively raising human rights concerns with the united arab emirates.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, although the united arab emirates (uae) portrays itself as a tolerant and rights-respecting country, the plight of ahmed mansoor, the country’s most celebrated human rights activist, portrays a different image. ahmed mansoor is currently serving a 10-year prison sentence for posts on social media about human rights violations. he has been confined to an isolation cell since his arrest, deprived of basic necessities and denied his rights as a prisoner under international human rights law, to which the uae claims to adhere. ahmed mansoor is part of a long list of so-called prisoners of conscience in the uae, imprisoned for exercising their legitimate freedom to speak out against the government. the eu and the uae have developed a strong diplomatic relationship centred on common political and regional interests. that’s good. however, regular dialogue between the eu, its member states and the uae on the issue of human rights must also be upheld. the uae is the first country in the gulf region with which the eu set up a comprehensive dialogue on human rights. it is imperative that the eu continue to monitor the human rights situation in the country and consistently address judicial developments and the uae authorities at various levels. meaningful human rights targets must be adopted and a list of individual cases made public in order to foster a genuine and results-based discussion on human rights during the eu’s dialogue with the uae. although the country has made some strides in recent years to improve its human rights record and portray itself as a modern, progressive, tolerant and rights-based nation, the case of ahmed mansoor is utterly disappointing and affirms that there is a long way to go to truly achieve this recognition.
madam president, in its 2018 resolution, the european parliament had already referred to the case of ahmed mansoor. three years later, it is clear that nothing has changed and that the situation has even worsened. on 20 march 2021, ahmed mansoor began his fourth year of solitary confinement. he is serving a 10-year prison sentence for the crime of insulting the status and prestige of the uae and its symbols, including its leaders, in the course of his human rights activism. before his arrest, ahmed mansoor was the only independent voice who dared to address human rights violations in the country, through his blog and twitter account. he has been subject to repeated death threats, intimidation and harassment by the authorities. he is currently being held in abu dhabi prison in critical condition. he's in solitary confinement and has only been allowed out of his cell on very, very few occasions. i deeply regret the timid and unsuccessful diplomatic approach taken so far by the european union and its member states, which is in stark contrast to human rights guidelines and commitments. there are limits to our patience. it's time to act. first, we urge the high representative of the european union and the member states to demand the release of ahmed mansour. secondly, we call on the delegations of the european union and the member states in abu dhabi to provide all appropriate support to ahmed mansoor pending his release. finally, we urge the european external action service to reconsider its informal human rights dialogue with the uae and to suspend it until significant progress has been demonstrated in this regard.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, four years in a four-square-metre prison, with no human contact except for a few very brief visits. four years without radio, without television, without even a book to escape, at least in thought, from that solitary cell; not a bed, not a mattress, just a blanket thrown in for sleeping. these are the medieval and unacceptable conditions of detention of human rights activist ahmed mansoor, described in a report by human rights watch. the uae often boasts of tolerance and modernity, but in the story of ahmed and the 60 others, including activists, lawyers, students and teachers, arbitrarily detained as a result of the unfair mass trial in the uae94 case, one can read the gradual transformation of the uae into an ultra-repressive police state, where the persecution of anyone who speaks out on political and human rights issues is systematic. it is urgent that the european union should take a strong and decisive stand against the conspicuous silence which has unfortunately been witnessed by these abuses, to punish those who are materially responsible for these violations, but also to initiate a serious and timely dialogue, which hopefully also involves the united states and the united kingdom, with the united arab emirates on the subject of human rights, making it clear that the continuation of our trade relations is conditional on the unconditional release of ahmed and all other activists and on the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, because no, for us human rights are not business as usual.
madam president, madam commissioner, today's emergency concerning ahmed mansoor, who is known as the last human rights defender in the uae and who has been languishing in a desert prison since 2017, allows us to shed light on the issue of human rights in the uae. human rights watch has extensively documented human rights abuses in the uae. arbitrary arrests of lawyers, judges, teachers, journalists. this is the daily situation of human rights defenders in this country. so in this context, we are calling in this resolution for the immediate release of ahmed mansoor, of course, but also for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience who are currently in prisons in the united arab emirates, and for access to these prisons by un experts and international organisations. finally, we express our concern at the fact that an emirati official is heading interpol when he himself is involved in serious repression of human rights activists.
madam president, i would like to thank you. now swedes are starting to go to dubai again to have fun. last year, the united arab emirates was also the largest recipient of swedish arms exports. at the same time, the country is treating ahmed mansoor and other human rights defenders in a terrible way. for over 10 years, ahmed mansoor has been subjected to arbitrary arrest, death threats and beatings. since his arrest in 2017, he has spent four years in solitary confinement. this is a treatment that can be equated with torture. this is a picture that cuts against the tolerant surface that the emirate wants to present. the eu must take action and consider measures against serious human rights violations. ahmed mansoor deserves to be treated with respect and in a dignified manner. the emirate must end his isolation and start respecting the rights and dignity of every human being.
madam president, the tragic case of human rights activist ahmed mansoor highlights the persistence of arbitrariness in all countries where the rule of law is not the rule. it is true that the criminal law and the prison system are matters for the sovereignty of each state. however, the judicial and prison treatment of ahmed mansoor violates not only international standards in this area, but also the directives of the competent court and applicable national laws. it is also clear that the present case is part of a general context of severe restrictions on fundamental rights, in particular those of opinion and expression. this trend is obviously mainly affecting the states where authoritarianism was already entrenched, in this case the gulf states. in this respect, it is urgent to examine the possible role played by the company nso, whose shadow was cast on the kashoggi case, and, more generally, on the use of surveillance technologies against certain political activists. however, the denunciation of this tragedy cannot be seen as a blanket condemnation of the united arab emirates, whose contribution to the fight against islamism on its soil and in the world should be recalled. for example, it has designated the muslim brotherhood and islamic relief worldwide as terrorist organizations. this is all the more remarkable at a time when another gulf state, qatar, is accused of compromising with radical movements. the blockade against the country in 2017 is a proof of this. there is no doubt that immense progress still needs to be made in the field of fundamental rights, including social rights. the ahmed mansoor case calls for unreserved condemnation, the fate of workers under the yoke of the iniquitous kafala system leaves no one indifferent. all these issues must be on the agenda of the bilateral dialogue with the uae, which is also a partner in the fight against islamist terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ahmed mansoor is a free voice, who has always denounced human rights violations in the uae, and for his sacred right to freedom of thought he is serving a 10-year sentence in prison in undignified conditions. we strongly call today for his immediate release, as well as that of all human rights defenders, activists, political dissidents, imprisoned solely for exercising fundamental rights. today, the persecution of human rights defenders in the uae is systematic. the repression of freedom of association and freedom of expression has intensified. human rights defenders are victims of enforced disappearances, arbitrary and prolonged detention, torture and unfair trials. the uae also makes extensive use of illegal means of surveillance and eavesdropping on dissidents, both at home and abroad, and it is a shame that eu states allow the export of cyber-surveillance technology to countries that have this regard for human rights and fundamental rights. this too must be overcome and the union's action must be consistent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution sets out topical issues and objectives on which specific impact assessments are essential for the impact of this initiative on the lives of citizens and future generations worldwide. it is true that the loss of biodiversity could cause irreparable environmental, social and economic damage. in fact, about 75 per cent of the genetic diversity of plants has been lost, while 75 per cent of the world's food is generated by just 12 plants, and this poses a risk to global food security. we wonder whether we should speed up the approval process for new breeding techniques, to make other species more resilient and help maintain biodiversity. according to the latest research, these goals are not contradictory or conflicting. the joint research centre has studied the impact of the specific objectives of the european biodiversity strategy and has shown that the food needs of the union citizens would become more dependent on imports from third countries, resulting in increased emissions and loss of biodiversity from third countries, all to satisfy european diets. we therefore ask that an impact assessment be included with this document, so that we can consider the requests we make to other countries as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about artificial intelligence in law enforcement, it is not just the question of facial recognition, a delicate issue on which a balance needs to be struck. hackers and criminal groups across europe are too easily able to break into the computer systems of public institutions and private companies. they have affected health facilities in italy, france, germany and spain, for example, putting their functioning at risk. artificial intelligence must become a fundamental tool in the hands of law enforcement to combat cybercrime more effectively. but it is not just the suppression of criminal phenomena. much more needs to be invested in prevention, by strengthening the defenses of personal data that may otherwise end up in the data black market. we need to create effective barriers against hackers and use artificial intelligence as a sort of infiltrator, so that law enforcement can block possible attacks before they happen. prevention is much more effective than cure.
in writing. artificial intelligence is set to play a strategic role in effectively fighting crime and ensuring the safety of citizens. the opportunities and benefits that it can offer in criminal justice are indisputable in terms of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, provided that the compatibility of technologies with respect for fundamental rights and the principles of necessity and proportionality is ensured. forms of mass surveillance and predictive policing through sophisticated algorithms that judge social behavior or personality traits to anticipate the behavior of certain subjects do not shield us from the risk of opaque decision-making, or worse, from new-generation lombrian theories and dangerous rights violations. a common regulatory framework at european level is essential to facilitate law enforcement authorities in the use of artificial intelligence services and tools that meet criteria of transparency, impartiality and equity, avoiding prejudice and discrimination between individuals or social groups, risks of violation of privacy and human dignity.
in writing. the pace of digitalisation, technological developments and, in particular, ai tools, has been outpacing legislative work in this area for many years. however, given the ongoing digitalisation of the internal security landscape, we cannot afford to hold back the development of new technologies. the use of new solutions must be adequate and proportionate, while ensuring, on the one hand, a high level of protection of fundamental rights and, on the other, the conditions for law enforcement agencies to use analytical and statistical solutions that effectively support the objective of ensuring the safety of citizens. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the appointment of a european data protection supervisor and the appointment of a european data protection supervisor. in the context of this report, the specificities of law enforcement agencies should be taken into account and their needs should be met, where possible, without prejudice to the protection of fundamental rights, the maintenance of which is a priority. it would be justified to separate the issue of the use of ai tools in systems supporting the implementation of tasks in the field of internal security from the draft regulation on the use of ai and to regulate it in a separate legal act. further development of effective analytical, statistical tools is necessary in the face of new challenges and threats, but only while maintaining a high level of protection of fundamental rights.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is my honour today to introduce, with my colleague, the rapporteur, mrs kontoura, this debate on the own-initiative report on the impact of domestic violence and custody rights on women and children. the vote we are called upon to cast today as the european parliament is of great importance, and i believe it is our duty to send a strong, clear and hopeful message to all the women who have suffered and still suffer physical, psychological and economic violence at the hands of their partners and who are struggling every day for their own survival and that of their children. domestic violence is a serious and often hidden social problem, causing systematic physical and psychological trauma, with serious consequences for the victims and a serious impact on the emotional, economic and social well-being of the entire family. the victims of this stigma are not only women, who suffer firsthand from the mistreatment of their spouse, but also children who often witness acts of violence against their mother, with serious consequences for their psychological and emotional development. we condemn in the strongest terms all forms of domestic violence and violence against women and call for justice to be provided for women and children, particularly in cases of separation of spouses and parental custody. in too many cases, domestic violence is still overlooked, and court decisions on shared custody or parental authority can result in death sentences for women and children. this is also because criminal proceedings arising from a domestic violence complaint are often handled completely separately from civil proceedings for separation and custody. national judicial systems should also have a college of professionals and experts who can be directors in judicial proceedings involving minors and women victims of violence, to ensure that they are treated in the most appropriate manner and to avoid further harm to victims. but all of this must start with a necessary revolution in terms of community awareness and training and education against violence in all settings, and this cannot be done without community and national support. to this end, too, we are calling on the commission and the council to add gender-based violence to the list of areas of crime under article 83 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, taking into account the particular need to combat this crime on a common basis. with today's vote, ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity to show all women who are victims of violence within the walls of their homes that they are not alone, that the institutions do not abandon them, but rather actively support them. this fight is not political, but it must see us all united in the supreme goal of protecting fundamental rights, gender equality, security and justice.
member of the commission. – mr president, at the last plenary session, i addressed the high priority of tackling gender-based and domestic violence, in particular in the light of its increase during the pandemic. both the gender equality strategy and the eu strategy on the rights of the child put a strong focus on eradicating violence and ensuring that all women and children can live free from violence. the victims’ rights strategy pays special attention to ensuring that the most vulnerable victims, such as child victims and victims of domestic violence, can fully rely on their rights to support and protection. for this protection, it does not matter where in the eu and in what circumstances the crime took place. children are affected by gender-based and domestic violence committed within their family in many ways. some children suffer from physical, emotional or sexual violence that is aimed directly against them. some children suffer when witnessing such violence aimed against one of their parents or siblings. some children may also suffer from violence in the context of joint custody and visiting rights, when such rights are awarded to a violent parent. indeed, the failure to restrict custody or unsupervised visiting rights may result in tragic consequences, both for the other parent and the child concerned. all such children suffer in one way or another from gender-based and domestic violence. all such children are victims of this terrible crime. we need to protect all victims, and in particular children, no matter how they experience violence in their families. they may not even be aware that violence is being committed in their families, yet they may still suffer the consequences. domestic violence has been shown to negatively impact the physical, mental, emotional and behavioural development of children. it can also have lasting effects on health, well-being and prosperity well into adulthood. we fully agree with parliament that in order to keep our promise to children, to protect them and to ensure their well-being, we must combat all forms of gender-based and domestic violence. we must provide adequate support to children to prevent that the consequences of the violence they experience impact their future. this is exactly what we are doing. the revised brussels iia regulation, applying as of august 2022, reinforces the rights of the child in cross-border custody cases by ensuring that they are heard and their perspective is taken into account. the new rules ensure a more effective cooperation between central authorities, courts and child protection authorities, or other competent authorities. the central authorities are the direct interface with parents and should continue playing a key role in supporting courts and competent authorities in applying the regulation. in addition the gender equality strategy announced new legislative measures to achieve the objectives of the istanbul convention within the limits of eu competences. in line with parliament’s request, the proposal for a directive on gender-based violence against women and domestic violence will propose measures to prevent such violence, including when perpetrated online, to protect and support victims, improve their access to justice and ensure better coordination between competent authorities. the proposal will contain targeted measures aimed at criminalising specific types of conduct, in particular with regard to cyber violence. it will furthermore step up victims’ rights, in particular on compensation, prevention and protection for victims of domestic violence, including children victims and witnesses of such violence. all this can be done with the existing legal basis. in addition, we will present an initiative inviting the council to include hate crime and hate speech in the list of euro-crimes set out in article 83. this would subsequently allow the commission to propose criminalising misogynistic hate speech and hate crime at eu level, a request which you repeat in this report. we are confident that the upcoming initiatives will achieve our shared objectives and we look forward to cooperating with you on these initiatives.
on behalf of the ppe group. ladies and gentlemen! violence occurs in the homes of the educated and the uneducated, in the homes of politicians, doctors, police officers, and manual workers, in rich and poor countries. the lack of a quick, adequate response from the relevant authorities, as well as frequent turning of the head or simply social approval only discourage the perpetrators of violence. that's why it's so hard to fight. the statistics are not encouraging, and the covid-19 pandemic and the lockdowns have definitely intensified and shown the scale of this phenomenon, which mainly affects women. many countries do not have effective anti-violence programmes, and not all eu countries have ratified the istanbul convention. we also hear about attempts to speak out against it, despite the fact that its writings have directly contributed to supporting victims of violence in many countries. let us not forget that where there is violence, children are also victims. the very fact of witnessing violence leaves a mark on a child's psyche and later life. that's why it's so important that we don't wait, that we react. victims of domestic violence in each member state suffer in the same way, and violence has a negative impact on entire communities. october is domestic violence awareness month. so let's all show some empathy today, support the report, and do everything we can to fight this phenomenon. and i repeat, without the understanding and support of men, we will continue to reap the negative fruits of domestic violence.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these are the rumors, mr president, that accompany the case studies of the so-called "parental alienation syndrome", as daniela poggio, a feminist and pas researcher, has pointed out. and the desperation of these children is hanging over them, keeping them from sleeping, from thinking of anything else, and it makes us wonder how it is possible that in europe, the home of the rule of law, in the name of a supposed syndrome rejected by the scientific community, mothers and children are being pushed away. it is also called "malignant mother syndrome" or "symbiotic mother syndrome", just to leave no doubt that this supposed syndrome is fueled by very serious gender biases. in italy, lawyers teresa manente and ilaria boiano of differenza donna counted 100 cases of children removed from a parent for this reason from 2018 to 2020. in 8 out of 10 cases, the mother was blamed for the rejection of the other parent; in 9 out of 10 cases the child was never heard by the judge; in 100 cases out of 100, in all cases, the mothers have been intimidated, their freedom has been restricted, they have to keep silent and they have to suffer the cruelest of all the violence: the so-called "maternity ablation", that's what it's called. they must be silent in the face of the compulsory treatment of children who are removed by public force and taken to neutral facilities, where they must be reeducated and re-aligned, in this case, obviously, yes, manipulated. mothers must remain silent even when they are treated as dangerous criminals and instead are uncensored citizens and, in most cases, victims of partner violence. but if it were possible, ladies and gentlemen, to draw up a list of the victims of the pain and harm that this established custom in the courts inflicts, children would be at the top. because they are deprived of childhood, because they are deprived by the force of their mother. is that acceptable? we think not, and we have reiterated this in this text. i now turn to parliament, which must choose whether it will stand on the side of civilization, the rule of law, science or barbarism.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have always been strong supporters of the protection of the family, of women and especially of children, and i commend the rapporteurs on the passion with which they presented their initiative. but we must be very careful, given the delicate nature of the issues involved, not to fall into the mere generalized demonization of man on the basis of a distorted view of society. in fact, we believe that it is a grave mistake to project the image of a totally patriarchal and misogynistic european society, even suggesting some legal solutions that can be used with the intention of upsetting the relations between men, women and children within the family as a whole. some paragraphs in the report invade the powers of the member states in matters of criminal law and family law in a completely misleading way, so that in our view it is better to rely on the national sphere of competence. we must fight all forms of violence in every way possible, but we must not allow ideological considerations to interfere in the fight against violence in order to influence legal and criminal action. we must continue to fight for the protection of women and children in the appropriate places and the question of child custody is too serious to be subject to a priori assessment.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner dalli for her speech and all the members for their speeches. on such an important subject there can only be a wide and participatory debate. the dossier under discussion has been the work of all the groups, and i would like to thank them for their commitment and cooperation. the subject under discussion today is a crucial example of the importance of a union of law, especially in times like these, when european policy must be as cohesive as possible. it is inevitable that such a sensitive subject will be discussed, but we should remember that the aim of the report must be to protect women, mothers and their children and to prevent and combat domestic violence and its harmful effects on children who are the subject of custody decisions. i therefore ask my colleagues to consider the need to produce a letter free from political ideology or considerations unrelated to the case, in order to safeguard legal certainty and the clarity of our institutional message. today, the right of women and children to be protected and to live a life free from physical and psychological violence must be won. let us make this relationship a further step towards a society where no woman has to fear abuse and mistreatment for herself or her children and where no discrimination and violence can be tolerated.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, petitions have always been a means for all european citizens to participate in community policy. petitions are a useful means for people with disabilities to make proposals for their rights. through petitions many disabled people have recently contacted us, telling us what problems they face every day, for example difficulties in employment, difficulties in school, difficulties in accessing public offices, difficulties in getting on public transport. i am very glad that our proposals have been accepted in this text. however, the implementation of the european charter on disability needs to be accelerated. we must fight all forms of discrimination in the workplace. we need to help families support people with disabilities. we must support schools and institutions that house children and young people with disabilities. it is our duty to tackle the problems of disability with all the means at our disposal, providing support and help to those less fortunate than ourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i regret to say that there will be no real protection of the fundamental rights of disabled people until their status is mutually recognized among the member states of the european union and until there is a cultural revolution in favour of difference. without this crucial step, all our efforts to ensure that the countries apply the community provisions correctly will be in vain. the european disability rights strategy 2021-2030 therefore calls for the full implementation of the european disability charter by the end of 2023. we must now extend this pilot project and make it compulsory, together with the european parking badge for disabled people. only then will we have a strategic tool to help people with disabilities exercise their right to free movement in a europe without barriers, in a europe without exclusion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the target we have set for 2050 is ambitious and unfortunately we must remember that we have not achieved the 2020 target of halving road deaths and understanding what weaknesses need to be corrected. some countries are lagging behind in implementing the measures to be taken, and the cost is borne by the weaker sections of the population, the elderly in particular. we still have a lot to do. first of all, we need to focus on prevention, which comes through education, training, securing infrastructure. we need to upgrade infrastructure and adapt it to a new idea of road safety that takes advantage of technological developments and new ways of moving around urban areas. i conclude by saying that it is time to rethink human mobility, putting people at the centre of policies. we still have a long way to go. it's time to start.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! every year, nearly one million road accidents occur in the european union, claiming the lives of some 23 000 people. in my country, poland, last year alone, nearly two and a half thousand people lost their lives on the roads. despite significant improvements in recent years, the scale of the problem remains enormous and frightening. therefore, further intensive actions to improve road safety are needed. realistically, i know that we may never be able to eliminate road accidents completely. however, we must make sure that accidents, if they do occur, do not result in death or serious injury. to this end, action is necessary, on the one hand, to improve the quality of the road infrastructure, which should maximise the safety of road users. on the other hand, we must ensure that vehicles on the road are equipped with technologies to assist the driver in safe driving. i am pleased that from next may, additional safety systems such as intelligent speed assist or advanced emergency braking systems will have to be installed in new vehicles, which i hope will help to reduce the number of accidents.
mr president, the human factor is now the main cause of road accidents in the european union. alcohol and drugs and speeding, often combined, are responsible for more than half a million accidents in the european union each year. we need zero tolerance for these offences, we need to remove the users of these substances from the road, we need to strengthen training, we need to focus on digitalisation, and a productive link between infrastructure and vehicles will make the roads safer. these are the regulatory and financial bets that the union can make on road safety, which needs better indicators and a special effort in the cities. better protection of pedestrians and cyclists is urgently needed to safely promote more sustainable mobility. bilbao, which was awarded by the commission for being the first european city to introduce the thirty kilometres per hour limit throughout the city, has prevented one in three of the accidents on its streets in one year, thanks to this and other measures. i think it can serve as an example.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you and the honourable members for this debate. i have taken good note of your comments and will pass them on to commissioner vălean. the commission is confident that, with the continued support of the european parliament and with the buy-in of member states, we will be able to deliver on our road-safety commitments for the decade ahead, whilst ensuring that the framework remains, as ms kountoura puts it, fit for the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 october 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the rapporteur notes in her report that there are about 1 million conflicts in the eu every year. in 2019 alone, there were 23,000 deaths and 12,0000 serious injuries. although the eu and its member states have made considerable progress in road safety over the past decades, these figures are particularly worrying. road safety must be a political, social and personal priority. moreover, these current figures reflect future tragedies resulting in huge costs to society. this is why the eu's long-term vision is to achieve the best possible approach to zero road deaths by 2050 (vision zero). our fundamental right to mobility should not be accompanied by deaths from road accidents and this principle should be incorporated into all road safety decisions.
in writing. there is an important problem with truck drivers coming from outside the eu. as you know, for the most part, they don't comply with the driving ban of more than eight hours a day without rest. on the roads of bulgaria, romania and germany, we have seen many times that sleepy drivers, mostly of turkish origin, have caused road accidents, and unfortunately, in most cases, they have caused fatalities. as the resolution says, the highest percentage, more than half, of road accidents happen on rural roads. unfortunately, there are whole regions in europe that are not included, and unfortunately i see no intention on the part of the commission to include them in the development of the ten-t network. of course, i will also mention the former corridor number 8, which links the bulgarian ports of varna and burgas with the italian ports of bari and brindisi via the albanian ports of drach and vlora. i cannot fail to mention mobility i, we want to reduce road accidents, but at the same time we are deciding to move hundreds of empty lorries from one end of europe to the other, just so that certain members of parliament can fulfil their election promises made to their union constituents. to me, that's hypocrisy to say the least.
in writing. statistics from recent years show that the number of eu citizens killed or seriously injured in road accidents is still high and shows a stagnating trend across the eu. on average, 500 people are killed and 300 seriously injured in the eu every day, far from the european commission's 'zero vision'. hungary has also managed to achieve good results in the field of road safety in recent decades, with statistics showing a downward trend year on year. however, every serious road accident is both a personal tragedy and a loss for society as a whole, and active action is therefore needed to further improve road safety at member state level. the state of infrastructure and vehicles contributes significantly to the development of road safety indicators. therefore, steps should be taken to ensure that modern driving aids are equally accessible and affordable for union citizens in all member states. i therefore ask the european commission to support more technical developments in the automotive industry and to support member states' efforts through both regulatory and financial means to make new accident prevention technologies easily available and affordable to the widest possible range of new cars, regardless of price category.
in writing. the issue of road safety concerns us all, as about 1 million road accidents occur every year in the eu. the numbers of deaths on the asphalt are certainly shocking. in 2019, there were 23,000 deaths and 12,000 serious injuries. the union's targets of a 50% reduction in road accidents by 2030 and a 'vision zero' for zero road fatalities by 2050 can be achieved with a specific strategy, political will, increased and targeted enforcement measures and adequate funding. the road safety report lays the foundations for safe infrastructure, responsible drivers and road safety education. in this context, we support lower speed limits in the urban area, zero tolerance for drunk driving, as alcohol is responsible for 25% of fatal road accidents, and more safety measures in infrastructure and vehicles. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of investing in the education of those who drive on the roads and in the training of the new generation of drivers, which is a priority for improving road safety and behaviour. all member states must ensure that high quality road safety education is provided, starting at school and forming part of a continuous lifelong learning process.
the next item is the report by mr raffaele stancanelli, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the recovery of fish stocks in the mediterranean: assessment and next steps (2019/2178 (ini)) (a9-0225/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their availability and for the contribution they have made, allowing the report to be adopted unanimously in the committee on fisheries, demonstrating that the sea and the fisheries sector are a priority for everyone. the report aims to underline that the proper implementation of the common fisheries policy should have as its primary objective the achievement of the right balance between economic, environmental and social sustainability. the mediterranean sea has supported the coastal populations and economies of the countries bordering it for millennia. it is also one of the most exploited seas, with levels of up to 80% for certain demersal species. however, there are other environmental factors underlying the decline of specific fish stocks, as fisheries and their ecosystems are subject to sources of pressure and degradation, such as pollution, climate change, hydrocarbon exploitation, dredging and shipping. the commission's willingness to set high environmental standards is entirely acceptable and positive, but this should not be at the expense of increasing imports and reducing food production in the european union. in recent years, some countries have seen fleets and crews halved, with a decrease in production of over 50% in favour of imports, which currently stands at around 85% for small pelagic and demersal species. the conditions must be created so that the conservation of resources and the profitability of enterprises can coexist and go hand in hand, so as not to frustrate the efforts made to date. it is necessary, in the general interest and also in order to safeguard resources and the profitability of undertakings, to harmonise all regulations in order to simplify fishing activities and not to place additional burdens on undertakings. it is essential that, more than one year after the entry into force of a regulation, scientific research on the health status of the stocks concerned is carried out immediately in order to obtain scientific data on the effectiveness of the restrictions applied and to verify their suspension. greater involvement of stakeholders in decision-making is vital and the key points should be, firstly, greater involvement and co-management of stakeholders and, secondly, complementing scientific data with the knowledge of industry stakeholders. taking environmental data into account alone risks overlooking some very important aspects such as the socioeconomic implications of fishing restrictions. ensure the rule of law. the conventions and treaties signed by the countries bordering the mediterranean are numerous, not only for the management and protection of fisheries, but in practice the actual implementation is extremely diverse and has concrete contradictory elements. the conditions for real and effective cooperation and collaboration in the management of fisheries in the mediterranean are clearly established and exist, so as not to make the efforts required of the european union fleets useless, limiting fishing activities and consequently also economic sustainability. in this context, the united nations convention on the law of the sea, signed at montego bay, states that each state is free to determine the breadth of its territorial waters up to a maximum of 12 nautical miles. some states arbitrarily apply more than doubled limits, creating situations of absolute danger and making the coasts of countries bordering the mediterranean subject to encroachments by vessels from other countries, which go up to three miles under the coast. the conclusions we can draw: a holistic approach that takes into account all aspects affecting the state of health of the sea and the constant updating and collection of scientific data on the state of the stocks. sustainable fisheries means ensuring the sustainability of the entire fisheries sector and the entire production chain, with positive socioeconomic implications.
in writing. the link between the united states and europe, even before it is political, military or commercial, is a cultural and historical link, which has its roots in the years when europeans, english, germans, french, italians and many others, came to america and shaped a new society, but always based on european and christian culture and tradition. over time, this cultural consonance has intensified political relations between washington and the european states, which have always seen the united states as their first trading partner and, above all, as a loyal military ally. this is why the eu-us friendship and alliance must look beyond political administrations and focus increasingly on the global challenges we will face together: the european union is also concerned about the threat of communism and totalitarianism in china, the dangers of global terrorism, the regional ambitions of the islamic regime in iran, the risks posed by the taliban in afghanistan. only together can we meet these global challenges, thanks above all to the mutual guarantee of our security, the atlantic alliance, the indispensable pillar of transatlantic relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there was a mistake in the debate this morning. let me explain: the union has increased sanctions and restrictions on the prohibition of overflight of airspace and access to european airports for carriers in russia. the consequences are often tragic. the sustainability of adoption programmes, which traditionally involve european adoptive families and belarusian children, is compromised. once adopted, children are forced to stay in their own country, physically separated from their parents who are unable to visit these children except through occasional visits. it is clear that these occasional visits cannot replace the normal operation of adoption programmes, which should instead allow adopted children to live permanently with their new family. it is a situation detrimental to the stability of these children who, having lost their natural families, are also deprived of the opportunity to build a stable bond with their new parents. three weeks ago i sent a letter to high representative borrell and i am still waiting for a response. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the rights of children are respected and that the rights of children are protected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you very much for mentioning the more than 700 political prisoners in belarus. let me give you an example: ksenija syramalot sentenced to two and a half years for helping to organise a peaceful demonstration for free elections, for democracy, for human rights. i took a sponsorship for her. and i ask you all to follow my example and also sponsor those people who have defended western values, democracy, free elections in belarus. and secondly, to the commission: we now have sanctions regimes. yes, we must ensure that the circumvention of this sanctions regime cannot take place in this way. and i ask you to consider extending sanctions to the raw material wood. the forest in belarus is almost 100 percent state-owned. the timber is sold internationally and brings foreign exchange directly into lukashenko's treasury. and so we directly continue to finance the oppression of the population. please consider adding wood to the sanctions list.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a year we have been witnessing a dramatic deterioration in the human rights situation in belarus. about 700 are now political prisoners, including the main opposition and free voices in the country. nearly 5 000 criminal proceedings are pending against those citizens who peacefully demonstrated against the falsified election result and for their fundamental freedoms. the union has not stood by and watched this unacceptable repression, but has also imposed just sanctions. we must show firmness, we must continue, we must not back down in the necessary protection of human rights. the humanitarian situation on the border between belarus and poland is extremely worrying and it is also true that belarus is making a heavy use of migrants. here is europe - and i must say this very clearly - and it cannot in any way abandon those who are fleeing such dramatic situations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) is a key instrument in strengthening the european health union and an important first step towards the european health union which we have been calling for for some time. the pandemic crisis has shown all eu countries that health threats, such as covid-19, do not affect borders or borders. i can therefore only express satisfaction at the creation of an authority such as hera, which will improve the union's preparedness and response capacity to serious cross-border health threats and will make the necessary countermeasures available and distributed rapidly. it is clear that this authority must be operational as soon as possible, but without this implying a reduction in the prerogatives of parliament, which has an essential power of democratic control and scrutiny vis-à-vis the other institutions. the response to health threats, as this pandemic has shown, must be concerted and the european institutions will have to continue to work together in the broadest spirit of collaboration and with respect for their respective roles.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for that very, i would say, intense discussion. i will try to address as many of the questions and concerns that you have raised as possible. i started noting down each mep to answer to every one of you by name and directly, but there was a great deal of overlap so if while answering i do not include all of your names, please excuse me for that. several of you raised the point of exclusion of the european parliament. i have said it before and i will say it again: in order for the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) to deliver on its mission in case of a new pandemic or a new health crisis, we needed to ensure that it had both the powers and the financial means to do so, and the only way we could do this was under article 122 of the treaty. article 122 is the only legal base which allows the union’s assistance to be granted to member states when a member state is in difficulty because of exceptional circumstances beyond its control, and this necessitates a proposal for a council regulation in order to enable hera to take a series of actions, including financial support triggered in a time of crisis. in the preparedness phase, hera will rely on normal budgetary procedures and the european parliament will of course be deciding on hera’s budget but furthermore – and i have already said this – the european parliament will have a seat on the board of hera. there will be an open, frank and systematic dialogue on all of hera’s operations. i also wanted to tell you today that i have already written to the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) inviting the nomination of the board member. why did we set up a commission service and not an agency? three reasons. speed. establishing of an agency would have taken too much time. it would have taken a minimum of two to three years of interinstitutional negotiations. money. the multiannual financial framework negotiations have just been concluded and there is no specific budget line for a new agency, and by establishing hera as an internal commission service we were able to make use of existing budget lines such as eu4health, and you had such a crucial part to play in this and enabled us to have this budget – horizon europe and the union civil protection mechanism. thirdly, agility. because the existing models of european agencies do not allow agile decision- making by virtue of their legal character. i also wanted to tell you here that the commission can easily redeploy staff and mobilise funds in case of urgency and this is why, i think it was meps zacharopoulou and rivasi who raised this point. meps fritzon, guteland and others raised the point of what we wanted to achieve with hera, whether it is falling short and more. hera builds, i believe, and institutionalises our successful approach. it is all part of the vaccine strategy. we are proposing a complete end-to-end solution, from a very early identification of a threat to ensuring that the appropriate medical countermeasures are available for our citizens. and let’s not forget that hera will be looking at all medical countermeasures, including therapeutics and diagnostics and even personal protective equipment. vaccines are just one of them. hera will finally be able to better coordinate and ensure coordination between the eu and the national initiatives on crisis preparedness and response. this is something totally new and an area in which hera can make a real difference. there was a question, i think from mep sofo, on the relationship between hera and industry. i wanted to tell you this, and i think it is very important, hera will be improving the union’s development and manufacturing procurement of key medical countermeasures but to do this, hera will need to have the preparedness mode functions as well as the capacity to take part in emergency measures so it is going to be working across all sectors – research, academia, ngos, governments, and, of course, also with industry, because industry is a key sector in terms of medical countermeasures which are needed for health preparedness and health response. is it going to be a prolonged arm of the pharmaceutical industry? we will be working very closely with industry, including the pharmaceutical companies. this is inevitable. i think all of you that have worked from the very first day of this crisis know this. however, the role of hera will be to guide industry and pharmaceutical companies into the directions that are needed to safeguard public health and hera will ultimately, fundamentally ensure that public funds have public returns that serve to improve the health security of citizens. so, with hera we are engaging in a new type of public-private relationships that will benefit eu citizens and the european parliament, member states and all the eu agencies will be very, very closely involved throughout the process. several meps raised the issue of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the european medicines agency (ema): why do we need a new agency, would we not be stealing staff? no, we will not be stealing staff. we will be recruiting new staff and we will be working with member states’ experts and a memorandum of understanding in terms of how to govern the cooperation/collaboration between ema, ecdc and hera will be signed but i wanted just again to say that hera will be supplementing with added value to the work already conducted by ecdc and ema, both in preparedness and in crisis times without overlaps and in full respect of the mandates of both agencies but compared to ecdc and ema, hera will have a stronger anticipatory and forward-looking and responsive-focused dimension in terms of threat assessments and foresight, and will be able to scan the horizon for medical countermeasures. ecdc will remain the key actor in terms of risk assessments for infectious diseases, which is at the heart of its mandate, and ema on the scientific advice on the safety and effectiveness of high-quality medicinal products, but ema cannot engage with the private sector on the procurement or development or medical countermeasures, so there will be a very close cooperation, but there will not be an overlap. meps trillet-lenoir and auken spoke about transparency, and i believe this is a word that often comes up. all meetings will be subject to the applicable eu rules on transparency, of course, and public procurement and reporting. it goes without saying that hera’s budget and expenditure will be subject to the discharge procedure in the european parliament, which will remain the budgetary authority. hera will not be able to spend money without your approval, and we will maintain a privileged dialogue with the european parliament, which has a permanent seat on both the hera board and the crisis board. i apologise for taking up more time, but i want to go through as many questions as i can. how do we have a proposal for which the european parliament has no envisaged role? first of all, i want to thank you for the support you had given at the beginning for the european health union proposals, for the support you had given to this project that has become hera. but let me be clear: the hera proposals do have a role for the european parliament and we look forward to working very closely with you. we could not have done this without you, and the commission will invite parliament to propose and set up a review process to ensure that you are closely integrated in the process and agree on its outcome. it is, though, a different structure, like i said it at the beginning, meps weiss and guteland raised it, and i want to say this: because of the need to ensure a coordinated approach at eu level, both for preparedness and response, we decided to create a special board to steer the work of hera and monitor its implementation. this is something which is highly unusual. it is not something we normally do. we faced a number of legal constraints. member states are responsible for their own actions. we do not intend the hera proposal to challenge the treaty provisions. we cannot weaken the institutional prerogatives of the commission, nor for the implementation of the eu budget. we consider that the hera board should include representatives of the national administrations and a representative of the european parliament. parliament’s representative – your representative – will have the full capacity to contribute to all the discussions and to assure a direct link between your political and legislative work, and i believe that this is important for the success of hera. meps weiss and liese asked about the sunset clause and whether we could introduce it in the proposal. i have already said that a review of hera is foreseen and the results of the assessment will be shared with parliament and council and if justified, a subsequent proposal for a different second generation of hera could be elaborated, building on the experience we have already gained. last but not least, i want to come to the comment – i would say it was a question, but it was also a plea – from mep ştefănuță, on the situation in romania. we stand by to support every single member state in every single way we can. i cannot agree with you more that we are all in this together and we need to work together to increase the vaccination uptake. this is a challenge in many countries and we need to do this if we are going to be able to target the pandemic effectively. i will speak with the mep again to see how we can further support to romania and these efforts. i want to thank you for the openness today. i listened to all your comments carefully. i hope that you were able to also hear our responses to them. i take on board and understand a little bit why we put forward the proposal of hera the way we have. our approach has also always stemmed from a very honest intention to respond immediately, considering the threats that surround us and the gaps that have been identified, and i can just say one thing, that we are open to change if necessary. we have a clear willingness to get this right, but we cannot afford to find ourselves at the start of the pandemic, never again, and personally i will stand in this plenary as many times as i need to, to build the level of trust and transparency that you rightfully demand and that we all believe in.
the chairman of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you for this constructive discussion of the affair. we have actually only received this proposal in the council on 16 september and we will have a full debate on it, so your views and, of course, the commission's explanations have been extremely useful. we are of course pleased that there is strong support amongst you in the european parliament for strengthening the health union. the legal and collective efforts are essential not only to overcome the covid-19 crisis but also to further strengthen the resilience of the european union in the area of health systems, where we still have a lot to improve in order to be better prepared for future crises. the presidency of the council is determined to contribute to the adoption as soon as possible of the complete legislative package on a european health union. progress is being made both in strengthening the mandates of the ema and the ecdc and in the regulation on the management of cross-border health threats. of course, we can't waste any more time. we need to act and work together to be truly prepared before the next crisis strikes. and to be truly prepared, of course, we have to put citizens first, and i think that it's the concern for citizens that should be the driving force for all institutions to find solutions to make health systems more resilient and more protective. we have heard important warnings today about the need for democratic legitimacy, which is, of course, important. but we must not forget that an important part of democratic legitimacy also comes from the efficiency and speed of the solutions we are able to offer as institutions for the benefit of citizens. we also heard warnings about transparency and spending money and also clarifications from the european commission. i think all these issues are extremely important to the council and we will continue to discuss them in depth. let me thank you again for this debate and leave you with the assurance that we in the council will do everything we can to achieve a strengthened health union as soon as possible. - thank you. - thank you.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the spanish socialists advocate the creation of a european authority to prepare for and respond to health emergencies, as well as to reduce our dependence on health. the pandemic has highlighted the eu's lack of access to relevant medical countermeasure stocks, the vulnerability of supply chains and the lack of a coordinated and systematic approach to their development, production and procurement. in this regard, an eu authority would address the structural gaps in the eu's health preparedness and response capabilities with regard to biomedical development, production and development of response capacity. the socialists, however, regret the limited role given to parliament in this great project. during the pandemic, parliament has shown its cooperation, involvement and speed in negotiations and decision-making, so its mere observer role in the crisis committee is disappointing, as is the legal basis used by the commission for the procedure, which excludes it from functioning and decision-making. the socialists therefore ask that parliament not be left out of the new authority.
in writing. the pandemic has shown us how important cooperation between member states is to protect the health of europeans. while we've had good results in fighting the pandemic, we're not sufficiently prepared for other potential crises. the recovery from this pandemic is an opportunity to build stronger and more resilient health systems. we need a mechanism that can be activated if the infrastructure of some member states cannot cope with crisis situations beyond pandemics. to ensure access to medicines, we need joint procurement. we also need better cooperation on treatments for rare diseases. but we will not be able to overcome these challenges unless we lay the foundations for a more sustainable model of health cooperation that is better prepared for crises. hera is a good step forward and will prepare interventions in potential health crises by gathering information and building the necessary response capacities. we need much more and that is why we must continue to work to build a true european health union and unlock the immense potential of health cooperation.
in writing. two years ago, when we first started talking about creating a european health union, we didn't expect it to go this far. the strange positive effect of the covid pandemic is that the goals that were set then have now become the result. the coronavirus pandemic has clearly demonstrated that global challenges can only be addressed through collective solutions: this is especially true for healthcare. it is misleading to say that member states are able to provide adequate solutions to these crises within their own sphere of competence: more union means better healthcare in this case. the steps and initiatives taken by the european commission so far are all important steps forward, but the pace and content of the european health union cannot be fully satisfactory; little attention has been paid to the urgent need to address inequalities between public health systems. the european parliament has already urged member states to implement stress tests that show the functional and qualitative weaknesses of their health systems; however, so far, member states have not implemented them. on the basis of the results of these tests, the european commission should on the basis of a resolution adopted by parliament initiate the establishment of a uniform system of quality criteria to define the standards to be ensured in european supply systems. the creation of the european health union is not just about protecting against covid. since the european community is built on solidarity, inequalities and injustices in supply systems must be addressed without delay! other
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by milan zver, györgy hölvényi and janusz lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and the committee on budgets, on the report on the implementation of the eu trust funds and the facility for refugees in turkey (2020/2045 ((ini)) (a9-0255/2021).
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. the report we are discussing today is a joint venture of three parliamentary committees: afet, deve and the budget. each of them is entitled to their own views on such important foreign policy instruments as the four trust funds and the facility for refugees in turkey. thanks to the excellent cooperation with the co-rapporteurs györgy hölvényi and milan zver, whom i thank. thank you, too, shadows. thank you to our advisors. we have found common ground and that is why this report was adopted by a large majority in the joint committees. this report is more than a glimpse into the past. it contains vital clues for the future. we appreciate the role of trust funds as a tool for rapid response in emergencies, in humanitarian disaster situations. they allow blending they allow the european budget to be combined with the member states' and other donors' funds, and they have also fulfilled their mission. that is why, among other things, their life was extended until the end of this year to allow for a smooth transition to the new neighbourhood development international cooperation instrument. the approval was conditional, namely that it did not entail additional contributions from the eu budget this year. while appreciating the role of the trust funds, the european parliament has repeatedly criticised the way in which they were set up, extended and, above all, committed, often without consulting the european parliament, often at the last minute, even though they had serious implications for the budget of the european union. a perfect illustration of this is the new aid package for syria. the fact that syria, the syrian refugees, are still in need of help was well known to the european commission last december, during the so-called budget concession, but it was not reflected in the 2021 annual budget or in the 2021-27 multiannual financial framework, or even in this new ndici instrument, so the most important conclusion of our report is this: a new generation of programmes, new instruments must be launched with the involvement of the european parliament from the very beginning. today we are closing, we will soon be closing the european union chapter of trust funds, but we all know that there can be extraordinary circumstances that will require extraordinary measures, perhaps also in the form of new trust funds. but their launching is a last resort, must be duly justified and, above all, must fully respect the prerogatives of the european parliament as the budgetary authority.
the reporter. madam president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would first like to thank my co-rapporteurs, mr janusz lewandowski and mr györgy hölvény, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their good and constructive cooperation in the preparation of the report on the implementation of the european union's rescue funds and the facility for refugees in turkey. politically and operationally, the trust funds have brought a new quality of cooperation to the field of the european union's external action. there's no doubt about that. the european union, which often lacks visibility and effectiveness in this area. the eu administration is often criticised for being slow and inadequate in providing aid. well, eu trust funds were set up precisely for this purpose, to provide the possibility of swift and effective action. after reviewing the implementation of the trust funds, i would highlight, in particular, the flexibility, proactivity and rapid response to real needs on the ground and the possibility of third member states participating as donors and enhanced political dialogue with partner countries as one of the key advantages of trust funds in the eu. as the existing trust funds will cease to exist at the end of this year, we need to focus on the many lessons learned from the implementation of trust funds and use them to improve the implementation of the new generation, as my predecessor has already spoken, of the external financial instruments of the european union, in particular the ndici europe in the world. i would stress the need to strengthen the european parliament's supervisory powers in the event of the creation of a possible new trust fund. we heard that philosophy earlier in the previous point. this is an important instrument of public diplomacy, and i am talking about the ndici, and the european parliament has a key role to play in this in the future. focusing on a brief overview of the colombia and madad trust funds and the facility for refugees in turkey, for which the afet committee is responsible, it is clear that they have justified their added value, fulfilled the objectives set and largely achieved the expected results. the war in syria, which has created the largest refugee crisis in modern history, is having a devastating impact on syria and the wider region. the madad trust fund and the refugee facility in turkey have been important tools in providing humanitarian and development assistance to syrian refugees and their host communities. i think it is extremely important that programmes under the funds support the most vulnerable groups in particular: children, women, young people, and protect them as much as possible from violence, abuse and exploitation. the eu trust fund has enabled children in jordan, lebanon and turkey to attend school and have access to safe spaces for non-formal education, protection and psychosocial care. the funds in trust also provide better access to health services and support for increased economic opportunities and social inclusion. special attention shall also be paid to vocational training, which improves the access of syrian refugees to the labour market and to better income. if we look at the situation in colombia, we find that it remains complicated. the country is facing multiple crises simultaneously that are undermining efforts to reach a peace agreement. violence remains widespread, with high levels of organised crime and serious human rights violations. the colombian trust fund has indeed managed to achieve tangible results in providing development support to small farmers and smes, thus making a significant contribution to local development in the regions most affected by the conflict. respected ! unfortunately, the needs and challenges that led to the creation of these trust funds in the european union are still present. the covid-19 pandemic has worsened, internationally, and it has also caused a deterioration in the international security environment. this requires the efficient use of the full range of financial assistance instruments provided for in the current multiannual financial framework. the european union must strengthen its leadership on the international stage and ensure a stronger, more autonomous, more unified and more decisive foreign and security policy to ensure a rapid resolution of crises and the maintenance of global peace and stability.
we now continue our debate on the report (a9-0255/2021) by mr zver, mr hölvény and mr lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and the committee on budgets.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i’m happy to attend today’s debate. i would like to express our appreciation for the effort of the committee on development and the committee on budgets of this house for this report and the continued cooperation in this field. the commission considers the eu trust funds and facility for refugees in turkey as a key financial and political instrument that has allowed us to respond to the unprecedented refugee and migration crisis around europe in an effective manner. we think they have delivered. they permitted faster decision-making processes for leveraging additional resources and for increased coordination and impact. but even more so, they brought the practical and tangible results. the trust fund for africa was designed to respond to the diverse risks of instability, irregular migration and forced displacement. thanks to the trust fund for africa, irregular arrivals to italy and malta have decreased from over 180 000 at the peak of this crisis to 35 600 in 2020 and around 44 000 so far this year. we have saved many lives. the trust fund for syria has mobilised over eur 2.3 billion since 2014. on top of directly reaching 7.8 million beneficiaries, it will have a sustainable legacy in helping refugees and local hosting communities. it has been key to implement eu pledges, and it has allowed the eu to respond rapidly and flexibly to the challenges of covid-19 and the beirut port explosion. the facility for refugees in turkey is unprecedented in scale and reach. it has made a major contribution to contain the flows of irregular migration, provide basic needs to refugees and enable a faster government scale-up of health and education services. these are just some examples, and i’m glad to see that the report shares the overall positive assessment of all these tools and recognises their added value. let me also address two observations that the report raises. first, we take transparency as well as monitoring and evaluation very seriously. since the inception of the trust fund and the facility, the commission has kept the relevant committees of the european parliament well informed about progress achieved in the implementation of these programmes. we have done this through annual reports and certified annual accounts, as well as through a monthly financial report on the four trust funds, produced by dg budget. the european parliament was also invited as observer in the strategic boards of the trust funds and has been regularly kept informed about programmes adopted by the operational committees. the second that i would like to touch upon, in the respect of human rights, is a clear objective of our trust fund throughout different regions and countries, which the commission takes very seriously. we are in close coordination with the implementing partners of our programmes and external experts that are conducting regular project monitoring missions to make sure that human rights are respected in the implementation of these programmes. to give you an example, the european commission has put in place a rather unique third party monitoring of operations in libya. it is paramount that we make the results of the trust funds and the facility sustainable. while the measures taken by the eu and member states have brought down the overall number of illegal border crossings in recent years, developments on some routes give rise to concern and require vigilance and urgent action. in order to prevent the loss of life and to reduce pressure on european borders, the eu needs to keep taking solid actions for priority countries and routes in close coordination with member states and our partner countries. in this regard it will be essential also to secure adequate and predictable funding, as has been the case in the past six years. the commission remains fully committed to addressing these challenges, and i hope to count on the continued support and cooperation of the european parliament. i look forward to discussing all these issues with you.
the rapporteur of the committee on budgetary control. madam president, mr commissioner, yes, what we want to say with this debate is that when friends are going through a crisis, we need to help them. it is said, "a friend is known in adversity". it is very good that the european union has special trust funds through which we can help those who are in crisis today and those who are most in need. these are definitely not symbolic amounts. in the case of turkey, we have sent about six billion euros to help refugees, and it was the european union that did one of the biggest pieces of helping to solve the syrian refugee crisis. but what needs to be said is that we need to have oversight and control over money. and that is what we have always advocated in the committee on budgetary control. you can't just give someone money on a plate and not ask them what they did with it. we need to talk to our partners and ask our turkish partners where the money went and what the benefit of the money is, what the purpose is and how we will continue to work with these people and who the beneficiaries of this money are. yes, a lot of things have worked out, but we need to keep going and we need to keep channeling this money to those who really need our help. and finally, let me thank those who used this money and helped to get it to the most vulnerable, which were women, children and the elderly.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european values oblige us, bind us to solidarity, to de facto solidarity and to the uncompromising defence of human dignity. the solution for refugees has to be a european solution where all member states work together, where all member states cooperate. in addition, the financial resources we provide must be transparent and must be within the budget of the european union. i regret to say this, commissioner, but there is at least one member state which has received european funds for refugees, which has withheld them, and which has not made them available properly. it is necessary that this should not happen or be repeated. the european commission also needs to be more proactive. the european commission knew that the refugee problem would continue, even worsening with afghanistan. in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework it did not put forward any proposals to support refugees. and now, an important point: refugees are not to blame. refugees cannot be used as an excuse to cut funding, programs and policies that are essential. and we can't give the populists an argument. refugees are victims. refugees are not to blame and it is our duty to help them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. it must do so by clearly indicating the need to turn the page on what has been achieved so far. while these instruments have supported positive experiences, which need to be continued, we have seen a substantial shift of resources from development policies towards the objective of reducing migration flows. the absence of genuine european solidarity, of a policy of reception and even of a sense of responsibility on the part of the union and its member states has led to an explicit outsourcing of border management. it seems like fate. this is the purpose of several actions of the trust fund for africa, often in conjunction with flagrant cases of human rights violations. the shame of the detention camps in libya weighs heavily on all of us, on our consciences, and it is unacceptable that the so-called libyan coastguard is being funded in various ways through these instruments. we call for independent monitoring of these projects, of the effective respect of human rights, including in turkey. parliament - it is worth remembering - has been left out of the decision-making process and has not been able to exercise full and genuine democratic control over these funds, and this has led to the systematic violation of human rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a fundamental act on the use of european trust funds and the refugee fund in countries such as central africa, syria and turkey. we are talking about the relationship between europe and migration flows, between europe and rights, between europe and reception. so, if we are to speak in depth about rights and democracy, let us say loud and clear that we can no longer accept blackmail from countries such as turkey or, more recently, belarus, which use migrants as commodities or as cattle to be moved or moved here and there according to their national interests. we say very strongly that we cannot accept that the countries receiving the funds use europe as an atm machine, that respect for the fundamental rights of the people is not optional. we must say emphatically that we cannot accept that the objectives of development, employment and education should be subject to the logic of power and the horrendous exploitation of human beings. and we say very strongly that we cannot accept european funds to finance the libyan coastguard, perhaps to bring hundreds of migrants back to the port of tripoli and send them to detention centres where there is a disregard for human life. we, the socialists and democrats, are calling for the establishment of an independent monitoring mechanism to monitor the use of these funds. parliament cannot be shut out! the rights are not for sale, "les droits ne sont pas à vendre": ursula von der leyen said it, let us say it loudly too!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 october it will be exactly 450 years since one of the greatest battles in human history: the battle of the bulge. the battle of lepanto. without that victory, europe today would not be europe. and we might not even be here to discuss the trust funds and the refugee instrument in turkey. because it's paradoxical that after 450 years, we now have to fund an empire that uses our money to control our borders. a dangerous and onerous pledge, since that same empire today, with our own money, threatens to open those borders if it does not receive this contribution. since 2002, the european union has given over 15 billion euros to turkey, a flow of money that has not stopped even after erdoğan's islamist turn. there was a time in our history as europeans when, with pride and anger, determination and will, behind our banners and in defence of our civilization, we defended our land, our traditions, our sense of being europeans. without that pride, without a strategy, without a vision that goes beyond the exceptional and temporary funds, we will not even be able to demand respect for our women who, as happens in those countries, are forced to beg for a chair to sit. without demanding the respect we won at lepanto 450 years ago, we will never be able to look to the future of our children in a christian, democratic and civilised europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, protecting the digital military networks and the networks of our intelligence communities guarantees the full sovereignty of the member states, non-interference in our policies, the freedoms of european citizens and also our interests in the world. our adversaries want to corrupt, degrade, replace our model of western liberal democracies with their authoritarian model. so who will win this cyber war in the next few years? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the creation of a cyber intelligence working group, shared between the union and the member states, is therefore necessary to enable a common diplomatic response. will europe rise to the chinese-russian cyber challenge? not through a simple document. europe needs leadership, vision and action in the cyber context.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we must be able to assess whether the instruments made available to the tourism sector have enabled our businesses to withstand the crisis caused by the pandemic. the data shows a slight recovery in the sector, although there is a lack of non-european tourists, but of course we are far from the 2019 data. what i am concerned about is whether we have been really effective in protecting our businesses. access to support is often burdensome, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. we need a tool that is agile and focused. for years, even in times of doubt, we in parliament have been calling for strong support for this sector, an ad hoc fund. this crisis has shown us that we need a coherent and rapid response to support a sector that is fundamental to the economy of our europe. we must take this opportunity to rethink a european policy for the sector. we can't waste any more time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. social platforms are tools that have become fundamental for the circulation of information and communication. but they are also a breeding ground for disinformation and incitement to hatred, powerful weapons used indiscriminately by those who want to attack the union and our democratic values. today, these spaces of obvious and enormous public utility are de facto privately owned and as such respond to perfectly legitimate business strategies, but often conflict with the general public interest. we are faced with business models that often promote, albeit indirectly, the proliferation of fake news and with these extreme messages that convey fear and hatred. the result is a chaotic news environment, where true news is at risk of losing credibility. in this context, it is not enough to appeal to goodwill and to self-regulatory mechanisms of the platforms, but precise, binding measures are needed. the european commission has presented a new code of conduct on disinformation which contains guidelines which we consider positive, very ambitious for the platforms we hope will see the light of day, but here again we have to ask how we can go beyond volunteering. with its proposals on the digital service act, parliament will be calling for significant progress which i think should be supported by the commission and governments. effective legislation is needed, but it must be part of a broad strategic approach that includes broad media literacy pathways and genuine support for free and independent journalism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the scenario we are going to face in the next few years is going to be difficult, especially for european families. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to address the serious threat posed by the union's actions in the context of the current crisis. in italy, the increase in gas energy would have an indirect effect on retail lists and would lead to an increase in household expenditure of €768 per year, of which €140 would be for food alone. in addition, fuel supplies are expected to be charged more than eur 320 per year. the final bill for families is already frighteningly high and is estimated at €1300 per family unit, an average salary for increases alone. the european commission presented last july the fit for 55 climate package, which aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, but does not take into account further price increases linked to carbon dioxide emission allowances. these are the devastating effects of your radical green policies, which as a group we demand are reviewed, or your arbitrary choices will be paid for by the families. we are asking for a review of the trajectory, commissioner, to protect citizens and families from the schizophrenia of a market in transitional chaos.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe 10% of households live in conditions of energy poverty. 2.7 million workers cannot afford to heat their homes. this is an alarming social and health emergency, which is likely to get worse with rising bills and the ongoing covid crisis. that is why we must act immediately, with emergency measures at european level, perhaps investments and facilities in the field of housing. we are a long way from the ecological transition envisaged by the european union, which sets unrealistic targets and forgets the issue of energy poverty altogether. we cannot ask the member states of the european union to give up natural gas and then tie ourselves to the technology and raw materials of third countries such as china, which certainly contributes to global pollution much more than europe. we are not going to stand by and decide to stand by all those families and businesses that risk being left behind, sacrificed in the name of a blah, blah, blah, light years away from that social dimension that europe is so full of.
commissioner, as we are having this debate, every business in bulgaria is paying 170 euros for a megawatt hour of electricity. unlike other governments in europe, the bulgarian government is doing almost nothing to soften the blow to business and citizens. the fact that the price per megawatt hour is three times higher than usual, and that many governments, like the one in bulgaria, are not responding, is not just a national problem, however. the first voices against the green transition and against the idea of a european energy market are already being heard. the fact that governments like this one in bulgaria are doing nothing will also affect the opinion of many europeans about the european union. but the european commission is not doing enough, keeping record high emissions prices in europe. we need, right now, a flawless response from the european union. besides acting now, we have to make sure this doesn't happen again. we need a system of energy stress tests in europe that measures how the economy will respond to different set prices for gas, oil and electricity. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. we should also launch an annual assessment of the european union's energy security, similar to the credit rating of the banking system. i hope we all realize how big the risk is for europe right now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mrs. simson, you said prices will stay high this winter. but 'heating or eating' must not be the alternative for people in europe this winter. yes, last year gas prices were very low, but that's no consolation today when we see a partly rapid increase since may 2020. commissioner, the measures taken by your authority are urgently needed, and in fact overdue. but the short-term protection of people from high, even unaffordable, energy prices is entirely in the hands of the member states. the european institutions are primarily responsible for medium and longterm measures. the rapporteur has already made some suggestions on this. i would like to emphasize once again that europe will never be energy self-sufficient. we can produce a lot of sustainable energy, but the demands on households, on mobility, on decarbonization of industry are enormous. so if imports are to remain unavoidable, then it is necessary that we diversify our supply to avoid dependence on supply and prices. so let's start with a climate diplomacy to north africa for building renewable energy there and producing green hydrogen.
i have to say, madam president, it's become more expensive to have the lights on in this room and to have the microphone on in this room. and when it shows up in people's bills, it causes european politics to be disturbed. what can we do to prevent energy shortages from driving prices skyrocketing? i understand that the commission is considering a solution whereby we are to buy up more natural gas and store it. but rising energy prices must not be used as an argument for the need for more fossil fuels. nor must it make our political colleagues shake hands in the transition to renewable energy. on the contrary, the rising bills should be an important reminder that we need to invest even more in more wind turbines, solar cells and much more electricity infrastructure. one of our biggest climate challenges for 2030 is to get everything we can to electricity. that is why we must increase the production of renewable energy today, not tomorrow, so that we do not run out and have to go back to expensive natural gas. it is also the only way to ensure that the price of green energy becomes more and more competitive and that europeans avoid the big extra bills.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let's start with the basics. an economy built on finite resources will always lead to sharp price increases when those finite resources begin to run out. it's as simple as that. the increase in energy prices today is due to the fact that the supply of fossil gas is lower than the demand. that demand is currently rising sharply in asia, and in russia, for example, the supply of fossil gas to europe is now being reduced. that is why energy prices are rising, not european climate policy. that said, we cannot turn a blind eye to the challenges facing parts of europe today, especially those with low incomes and poor access to cheap renewable energy. therefore, eu investment in the green transition must be specifically targeted at those parts of europe. the green transition must therefore go hand in hand with a fair distribution policy and social reforms. we need a big increase in investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency, increased transmission capacity between parts of different countries, but also between the countries of europe. and we need to invest in energy storage, like hydrogen and batteries. that's the solution to rising energy prices, not increased reliance on fossil fuels.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in the cost of energy is killing off businesses and households in europe, but this is only the beginning if the environmental question is not cleaned up by the ideological violence of the left. the race to the dark side of the energy transition risks damaging both economic development and the environment. and there's worse: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. while we are debating, russia is playing its game and communist china, which is the country with the highest co2 emissions in the world, is building new coal-fired power stations to resell energy to europe at ever-increasing prices. and it is still china that has a monopoly on the raw materials for the production of electric batteries for the storage of renewable energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ideological environmentalism of the european union is only producing disasters. the increase in energy prices is in fact the result of europe's foolish policies. it's becoming increasingly clear that greta supporters are good environmentalists, but with other people's wallets. it is the citizens and consumers who are paying for the increase in bills and also the general increase in product prices, as well as the hundreds of thousands of workers, who are obviously considered sacrificial on the altar of the ecological transition. it is clear that it is good that young people are more responsible for the future of the planet, but the european union should be more focused on reality. european companies pay far more for energy than their international competitors, and yet they do absolutely nothing with the countries that pollute the most, such as china and india, with whom they continue to sign trade agreements. at the same time, of course, allowing china to get their hands on solar energy allows them to have a monopoly on that kind of production. i mean, basically, the future is gray. we ask you to be more consistent and not to discriminate against european companies and citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandora papers are not just about tax evasion. i'm not sure. there are also criminals and mafia figures who use tax havens and shell companies to hide and launder dirty money, bypassing national laws against organised crime. we know that tax havens exist within the european union too and the black list that has been drawn up is extremely flawed. we want to fight tax havens and money laundering? are we seriously doing this? the member states must urgently adopt anti-money laundering directives and the european union must take effective action against tax havens. i thank the journalists and their sources who made the release of the pandora papers possible. freedom of the press is often the only effective bulwark against these illegal practices and allows citizens to know the truth. that is why i would also like to emphasize once again the unjust detention of julian assange. assange must be free!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, the recovery fund is the greatest european political gamble of the last thirty years: it supports the environmental transition, helps young people and businesses in the digital transformation and creates development in the southern territories, which have a huge infrastructure backlog to fill. the people believe in the recovery fund, let's not let them down! i would ask the european commission to be rigorous in assessing the implementation of all these projects and to be rigorous in respecting european values. we cannot allow european funds to be used for policies which are contrary to the principles of the treaties, and this is particularly true of poland and hungary, where the rule of law is constantly under attack. if we are tenacious and united we can achieve victories. we are building a new future and we are fighting to leave no european citizen behind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if by banking union we mean the transfer of supervisory powers from the national authorities to the european ones, it is not clear why there is still such strong discrimination. asymmetries are found to the detriment of commercial banks which essentially operate in support of the real economy, i.e. to the benefit of the productive system, and to the advantage of those which operate predominantly in financial transactions not supported by commercial transactions, but which nevertheless, being exposed to very significant risks not properly monitored and codified, can adversely affect the entire banking system at a systemic level. these fears stem from the awareness that there are potentially high risks to which many european banks have been exposed for years now, having in their assets complex financial derivatives, i.e. those categorised in level 2 and 3 and the so-called toxic securities, the risk of the other derivatives being already presided over by the ccp (central counter party) and emir (european markets infrastructure regulation) on otc derivatives. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the bank, but are also limited to the capital needs of the bank. it is therefore incomprehensible that, while restrictive and codified guidelines have been adopted to deal with the commercial problems, the accumulation of enormous risks in complex derivatives, left to the sole self-referential calculation by the banks themselves, with macroscopic conflicts of interest and without assessing the risk of the growing phenomenon of the shadow banking system, where there is still no adequate supervision, has been inexplicably protected. the whole european banking system is also affected by the uncertainties of basle iv, the details of which will be known at the end of october, but there is a real risk that its implementation will further penalise small and mediumsized enterprises with a still fragile credit system. finally, as regards the completion of the banking union and the common edis deposit guarantee scheme, we are not convinced by a hybrid model for the common guarantee fund, because without a real and genuine mutualisation of risks it will not produce any advantage, nor will it strengthen the capacity of the union's banks to withstand any shocks. on the contrary, it will emphasize the principle of the risk differential between central and peripheral economies and, paradoxically, will pave the way for those who advocate the abolition of the sovereign risk free.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, in the matter of asylum, it would be reasonable to finally return to the strict definition of refugee as contained in the geneva convention. i quote: 'any person who has a well-founded fear of being persecuted on account of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion'. but we are seeing hundreds of thousands of refugees today who claim to be fleeing war, but they are coming mostly for economic reasons and to benefit from our social systems, which are very beneficial. as for those who are denied the right to asylum, they are hardly ever expelled and therefore remain on our soil. asylum has become a separate immigration channel. the creation of this european asylum agency, which you are calling for, will only have one result: to send a new signal of weakness and laxity, that of a europe whose doors are wide open. lucides, several leaders of member states are warning you: we must not repeat the mistakes of 2015. in the last six years, five million asylum seekers have flooded our continent, the equivalent in number of the inhabitants of the greater east region, almost the population of denmark. denmark, let us talk about it, is a country to take as an example! copenhagen has already withdrawn asylum from allegedly syrian refugees, as there is now no reason why they should not return home. what we need is not an asylum agency, but an agency that will organise, in a humane but effective way, the return to their country of origin of all those who have nothing to do in europe. your european pact on migration and asylum is at a standstill. to rise to the challenges, courage is needed, as in lithuania: detention for illegal migrants who have not made a legal asylum claim; as in hungary: building a wall on the external land borders of the european union; the european union is also a major donor to the fight against poverty. as for belarus, we need diplomatic and economic sanctions against countries that refuse to take back their migrants or that threaten us. the objective must be clear: to stem the flow of migrants and stop the rush to europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european asylum agency will unfortunately not be a breakthrough in the management of the migration phenomenon. we all know that it was the european border countries who held up the negotiations on this regulation for years, and we know that the negotiations were unblocked when the border countries were offered the postponement of the tasks which the agency will have to perform: the european union is a typical byzantine compromise. but it's always a delay. the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the process of european integration. we 'll keep saying it until we 're exhausted . the only way to alleviate the pressure of migration is to reduce the number of arrivals, and the only way to reduce arrivals is to stop illegal departures from countries of origin and transit. so a common asylum system with an attached agency would have a reason to exist.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the introduction of the package on migration and asylum, as was easily foreseeable, we have seen no decisive steps taken, but only empty words that continue the stalemate on immigration. today we are discussing a measure, the regulation for the european asylum agency, which should allow for more support to the states in processing asylum applications. it should be a positive result, but the commission intends to use it to monitor more closely the activities of the member states through the monitoring mechanism which the mediterranean states have rightly asked to suspend pending tangible progress towards european responsibility. the relevant articles cannot enter into force until the package has been approved and, above all, after all the european countries have shown a commitment to genuine solidarity. if we do not, let it be clear, we will not be prepared to take on additional burdens to meet the standards of welcome, nor to ask for further sacrifices from those who have already, over the years, paid the cost of the european union's inaction. we want concrete measures to prevent departures and irregular entries and deaths. it is not enough to repeat your 'afghanistan approach', which is to encourage the neighbouring countries to take in refugees and to provide them with assistance. finally, we note the commission's communication on trafficking in human beings, but we hope that it will be followed by a strong response to states which encourage the trafficking of migrants or which do not respect the agreements on returns. this objective should also be pursued by strong measures in various policy areas, such as visas or financial assistance. the signal must be clear, otherwise we risk continuing down a path of international irrelevance, the price of which, thanks to you, is entirely paid by our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as always, europe is more interested in welcoming immigrants than in defending our borders. you have thought of an agency to facilitate operational assistance in the management of reception and the assessment of applications for international protection, but this risks increasing bureaucracy and also costs for the countries of first arrival. i mean, you've created yet another cart. italy has for years been forced to shoulder alone, in the silence of europe, the burden of an increasingly unacceptable irregular immigration. instead of working to limit departures, you continue to push forward policies that push more and more immigrants to enter europe illegally. illegal immigration is a problem for the whole of europe. we propose strict management of the external borders, both land and sea, and we call for identification centres for migrants in the transit countries of north africa. what is your answer? you answer with such hypocrisy and ridiculous goodness, favoring only human traffickers. when will you finally be able to open your eyes?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the proposal for a regulation on the european union agency for asylum, the new agency will have the task of providing further operational and technical assistance to the member states, as well as ensuring greater uniformity in the assessment of applications for international protection. this point, however, has a critical aspect: first arrival countries, such as italy and greece, would once again be solely responsible for processing asylum applications and therefore be the only ones facing the logistical and bureaucratic burdens of receiving them. the agreement reached did not address the crucial point related to the migration policy of the european union, namely the lack of sharing and responsibility of all member states. it will be useless to strengthen this agency if the rules on solidarity are not in place. italy and greece cannot be left alone!
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of civil rights in myanmar continues to be dire: the death toll is over 1,000, more than 7,000 arbitrary arrests, almost 6,000 convictions for political crimes, over 2,000 arrest warrants for fugitive opponents. sadly, children have also been killed in recent attacks. the rights to freedom of expression and association are not allowed; the outcome of democratic elections is not respected; different ethnic and religious groups in the country are persecuted; former democratic leaders of this nation have been arrested on baseless charges; political prisoners are increasing; political demonstrations are prohibited; we even see attacks on schools and health facilities. i would also point out that here, as in many other countries of the world, the christian community is suffering from very serious violence: we have seen periodic killings and arrests of christians and bombings and raids on churches. europe must be proactive and stronger in calling for respect for human rights and must somehow nudge china to condemn what is happening instead of indirectly supporting the new regime. it is unacceptable to witness such violent repression, and to limit ourselves to expressing concern. the european union must take strong action against those who deny freedom in myanmar. the former burma was building a democratic future before the military coup and we must support those who, even at the risk of their lives, demonstrated to defend human rights. europe must defend freedom and democracy, otherwise it has no meaning to exist.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the farm to fork programme is dangerous, ideological and inadequate. it is dangerous because it supports tools like nutri-score which, without adequate scientific basis, penalizes healthy foods, such as the excellence of "made in italy", promoting instead junk food, damaging the mediterranean diet, which is the cultural heritage of humanity, favoring only the multinationals. and frankly, it is inconceivable that europe, instead of supporting our food history, is promoting food like insects. it is ideological because, without an adequate analysis of the economic and social impact, it reduces the farmer to a climate watchdog and imposes controls and objectives that are so much 'green big brother', with the risk of favouring extra-european imports, weighing on the producer and, above all, on consumers. it is inadequate because there is a demand for food to be cheap; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used for the production of foodstuffs of poor quality. moreover, the prejudices against animal foods, such as meat, are frankly ridiculous. even the recent un nutrition report 2021 shows that for a significant portion of the undernourished people meat, milk, eggs are a source of essential nutrients that plant foods will not be able to provide either now or ever. we are tired of a european union which, instead of supporting and promoting our food culture, is attacking our products in favour of the multinationals.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the farm to fork strategy is not only useful but necessary to make european agriculture ever more high-quality and sustainable. shortening the supply chain, promoting local products, recognising and protecting excellence. but it is not enough if we do not create rules so that the market and the large distribution system finally favour small and medium-sized producers, who are the very ones who cultivate excellence while protecting the environment. it is not enough if we continue to have trade agreements with those who do not respect the rules we impose on our producers and therefore give us unfair competition which we incredibly endorse and which contaminates the work done on sustainability and quality. we therefore call for the ec proposal to include measures to prevent the blackmailing of extreme discounts for quality, organic and protected products, and the intention to stop self-injury in agreements with non-european markets. we need a more solid and integrated internal market to promote pgi products. the summary in this ini is fine, but i expect more, also starting with the labelling, which cannot be misleading to the consumer, so the fraudulent and unscientific system of the nutri-score at traffic lights must be eliminated once and for all.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with this report, which contains dozens of amendments tabled by the five star movement, parliament is in fact calling for a change in the 'farm to fork' policy. we need cumulative impact assessments if we are to set binding targets for farmers and safeguard that continuity of food supply, farm sustainability and employment levels. the ambitious targets on pesticides, fertilisers, biodiversity, organic farming can only be achieved if the baseline is the same for everyone, also considering what farmers in the most virtuous countries, such as italy, have already done. nutrition information must be based on independent scientific data, on the quantity of the product consumed and on the real ability of consumers to understand, through labelling which must indicate the country of origin of each individual ingredient, including synthetic ingredients. the biggest challenge we face is our ability to export our sustainability model, by reviewing the import regimes for products from third countries, ensuring reciprocity of environmental, social and health standards to protect the identity and excellence of our european agricultural model.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago the five star movement voted in favour of mrs von der leyen's presidency, which also saved the union from a possible institutional vacuum, on the basis of two political commitments: a new strategy towards 2050, based on green transition and social justice, and a revision of governance to end the blind austerity that had frustrated all attempts at development and the well-being of citizens. no ambitious objective can be achieved without a change in the stability and growth pact, which puts social and environmental indicators on an equal footing with economic ones. i am particularly interested in two of our proposals which have been accepted: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. but that 's not enough . the change of paradigm must take place before the safeguard clause is removed in order to avoid new economic and social imbalances.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that 90,000 deaths are caused by asbestos in europe every year, a figure that is still too high when we consider that asbestos was banned in europe in 2005. in fact, many old buildings still contain this carcinogenic and harmful substance. it is therefore our commitment to ensure that the removal and handling of this material is carried out in the safest possible way for the workers and also for those who work in these buildings. as rapporteur for the revision of the directive on carcinogens and mutagens at the workplace, i can only welcome this report, because i believe that any initiative to ensure safety at the workplace is fundamental beyond our political colours. the european commission's 'zero casualties' approach to the workplace is certainly an ambitious goal, but we must all commit ourselves together now to reducing workplace illness and death.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur, we need art more than ever. we need artists to not fall into discomfort. the arts are an extraordinary opportunity for encounter and dialogue, beyond cultural, social and ideological differences, because in the face of art man finds himself similar to other men, sharing emotions, ideas, dreams. the pandemic has unfortunately exacerbated the already critical situation of the art sector, bringing a fragile system to its knees that needs to be reformed as soon as possible. it is urgently necessary to establish a social status for artists, which is still lacking in many member states, capable of protecting their professional dignity and of regulating their contractual situation adequately. we can't afford to abandon the artists. today more than ever they are asked to give voice, images, sounds to our hopes and dreams, to be protagonists of our lives and our stories.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has hit the cultural and creative sectors hard, with a serious loss of turnover of over 30% in 2020, amounting to almost eur 200 billion. the economic crisis has also had an impact on employment, with the loss of jobs for artists and professionals, most of whom are self-employed and therefore even more vulnerable and in need of financial support. culture and artistic creation must be the starting point of europe's rebirth. we must support our small and mediumsized enterprises in particular with adequate and practical financial support. culture has not only economic value but also social value, because it enhances and strengthens our values, the diversity of our peoples and thus the history of europe. there can be no real european union without culture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is really frustrating for an italian european citizen to witness today this unprecedented show of force by the union against the polish state for failing to respect the rule of law on lgbtq ideology and the appointment of judges, while in italy the fundamental human rights enshrined in the european charter of human rights are trampled underfoot by the government of the unelected president draghi, with the introduction of severely discriminatory and vexatious measures against the minority of workers and students who are not vaccinated against covid and the violent repression of the peaceful protests under way. the violation of the rule of law in italy is far more serious than the one alleged in poland, but the commission is not dealing with it. perhaps prime minister draghi has received a license to kill from the european institutions? if not, commissioner, then you must immediately intervene in defence of the italian citizens who are asking for help, as they did yesterday in trieste.
in the name of the id group. mr president, madam president of the commission, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us try to bring some order to this morning's debate. from a legal point of view it is not easy to see what is scandalous or anti-european in the ruling of the polish constitutional court. on the political side, however, if this house can devote half an hour of its time to expressing its dislike of a government, then i think that is an approach which becomes offensive to the prerogatives of this parliament. president morawiecki wrote in a letter published yesterday: poland recognises the primacy of community law in accordance with its obligations under the treaty on european union. what does that mean? this means that the rules on the union are binding only on matters for which the states have delegated their powers to brussels by means of the treaty, but they are not binding at all on national constitutions and legal systems, much less on matters on which the individual states have never delegated their sovereignty to the union, and in this case there is no exception to those aspects which govern justice. it is therefore strange to raise a debate of this magnitude, not least because it is not the first time that some national courts have questioned the primacy of community law. it happened in italy, it happened in germany recently, you will remember, with the purchase of securities by the central bank, or with what was the suspension of the ratification process of next generation, in italy happened in 2017 with the taricco case; so this means that the recent legal history of the union is littered with similar cases, but i don't remember such heated debates or fears that germany or italy would leave the union. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a warning, because sometimes the excessive desire to punish, which many of you are carrying out today, leads to a violation of the treaties. that would be a violation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, i have followed this type of debate even before i became a member of the european parliament in my previous role. i would also like to see the type of report that leads to this changed, because of course we are voting on a resolution next month and we will have a better chance of analysing the work that the european commission has put before it. but what i would like to stress, before the merits, is that time is running out. unfortunately, the legislature is already halfway through, and because of a pandemic, because of everything that's happened, we're behind. and this is no one's fault, of course, but i would urge us not to be too ambitious, because we already know and we have already seen with the presentation of the 'fit for 55' package that there are legitimate and justifiable concerns in the council and the more complex and controversial legislative texts are presented by the commission, the longer the time will be. i therefore urge that, also on green issues, we should always bear in mind the issue of competitiveness, that is, the impact that these measures must have in order to ensure that we do not end up pursuing or working on proposals that are a little too far removed from the needs of the business and working world. on defense, i think we can maintain and improve things as they are now. on trade policy, i think we should speed up a little and then, on the stability pact, we should definitely move beyond measures, that is to say austerity measures, which have proved inadequate in a system free of external shocks, let alone now that we have to get out of a pandemic that has harmed us all and that we have to grow and produce again quickly.
on behalf of the left group. the european parliament, with the broadest cooperation and consensus from the european people's party to the left, is calling for concrete increases in the budget, which are absolutely realistic and necessary. the council has been unjustly and unjustifiably cutting back on what you have proposed, and in many respects it has also reversed the interinstitutional agreement on the multiannual budget. we call for more attention to support research and innovation; more funds to protect children from poverty, social exclusion and illiteracy; stronger efforts to tackle the health crisis by promoting the european health union; stronger erasmus+ with more opportunities for education, training and support for the younger generation; more funds for eu-live, to protect the environment and support the green transition; more funds for the covax initiative, to boost vaccination coverage across the globe; and more support for gender equality in all budgetary dimensions. the council must stop cutting corners and saying 'no' to things it has itself agreed to, and the commission must stand by its proposals, not always back down to the council and listen a little more to the voice of the united european parliament.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the annual budget debate and vote is over 170 billion euros. i think it is important for everyone to maintain the level of eu support, whether it be agricultural payments, rural development or cohesion funds. but i would like to draw your attention to a new budget line which was already introduced in the 21st budget, but which has already increased tenfold in the 22nd and is likely to continue to increase in size from year to year. this is the interest rate on the repayment of the common loans taken out by the union. all member states, including hungary and poland, should contribute to the establishment of this amount. in the meantime, as we know, political pressure has delayed the approval of the hungarian and polish national recovery plans and the payment of advances. yet it seems that we must contribute to the repayments, to the repayment of interest. that's where we're gonna hit the big time. i would ask the commissioner and the commission to explain this rather strange situation.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in this debate, i would like to stress that parliament's rejection of the council's proposed cuts is necessary in a situation where the economies of the member states are making up for the covid pandemic. moreover, new challenges are emerging, such as the sharp rise in energy prices, to which the commission will have to respond, and all of this requires additional resources. it should be emphasised that the 2022 budget is the second budget of the new financial perspective and that the payment appropriations contained in it must cover the accounts presented by the beneficiaries implementing the projects in the financial perspective 2014-2020 in accordance with the n+3 principle. we must do everything we can to ensure that these payment appropriations are not exhausted and that the situation of 2014/15 is not repeated, when the commission had outstanding bills of billions of euros, and no funds to settle them, and, moreover, the commission had to pay interest. in this context, i would like to express the hope that, following the pattern of previous years, parliament will join the council's declaration on the payment linked to the 2022 budget, which will allow for a rapid response in the event that additional payment appropriations are required.
madam president, as in previous years, we are facing a likely budgetary reduction, when what is required is a significant increase in the budget of the european union alongside a strengthening of its redistributive function of supporting the promotion of effective convergence in economic and social progress between the member states, as well as supporting the real economy of the member states through grants, not loans, to respond to the serious economic and social situation faced by several member states. this situation is aggravated by the restriction of the states' room for manoeuvre in promoting public investment, in financing public services and their social functions, through the application of macroeconomic and/or policy conditionalities set by the european union, which it is urgent to eliminate. we have put forward a number of proposals to support small and mediumsized enterprises, small and mediumsized agriculture, fisheries, transport, and others, which, if approved, will help to secure increased resources for economic, social and territorial cohesion for the benefit of countries, workers and peoples.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus crisis has taught us that only with ambitious policies, such as the recovery, can important results be achieved in the interests of citizens. that is why we can only be disappointed by the proposed cuts in the council's programmes for innovation, strategic investment, internal security and the fight against climate change. even funding for health and civil protection programmes is being cut. what message do we as european institutions have to give to the citizens? of course, we must avoid waste and reduce administrative expenditure by analysing the european budget item by item, but we must ensure that citizens' priorities are adequately funded. the five star movement proposes the creation of a specific item in the eu budget to finance the tourism sector. we need an ad hoc fund to revive the sector that has been brought to its knees during the pandemic crisis. millions of european households depend on and live off tourism; it's time to give them some answers.
madam president! at the beginning of the implementation of the new financial framework, we have two amending budgets for 2021, a customary amending letter for 2022 with a substantial amount of over eur 1 200 000 000. the need to adapt the new financial framework to the new social climate fund initiative and probably a major revision of this newly agreed financial framework, so the implementation of this new financial framework is under new challenges, new needs requiring a serious financial response and flexibility. some of these new challenges are unpredictable, others are highly predictable. one of these is the need to extend aid to refugees from syria. it was known last december, but it was not reflected in the new financial framework. i am mentioning this because the eu trust funds i have been involved with are reaching their end of life and i look forward to working more closely with the european commission in implementing the new generation of eu foreign policy instruments.
madam president, the 2020 budget is the first after the humongous financial effort of next generation eu. we are talking about the eur 170 billion for the next year. we have asked for more resources compared to the commission, overall eur 4 billion more. the programmes for which we have asked for an increase range from erasmus+ to the child guarantee, but here i would like to mention the covax programme, one which we speak too little about. its goal is to deliver vaccines to low income countries all over the world. we need the eur 1 billion more in order to reach the 500 million doses announced by von der leyen. there can be no talk of getting out of the pandemic if it is only us who manage to get out. we cannot think about returning to normal life if it is only us who save ourselves. we cannot think that the right to a healthy life is only for the few and not for the many. we have learned that what solidarity means, and now we just have to spread the lesson.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of china, taiwan, is a reliable partner and the taiwanese are shaped by democracy, freedom and an open mind that embraces innovation. in voting today we recognise that taiwan has strengthened democratic institutions, social and political rights and individual freedoms over the past 20 years and we stand with taiwan, which wants to remain free, sovereign and independent, by cultivating proactive peace diplomacy, especially towards china, even when this militarist and authoritarian state only shows that it wants to intimidate. taiwan rejects any form of coercion and is an exemplary model for other countries in asia and the indo-pacific. therefore, all forms of cooperation, from culture to semiconductors, from security to the economy, from health to value and supply chains, are in clear mutual strategic interest: to work together for human progress. we are united in defending human progress and freedom and we must defend taiwan so that taiwan can continue to live in this way. the commission, the member states of the european union warn china: we will defend taiwan.
mr president, commissioner vestager, ladies and gentlemen, the winds of war are blowing in the china seas, it is now clear. china has raised its sights, unfortunately not just metaphorically, and is now aiming straight at taiwan. while we in europe are lost in a lot of talk, the united states, which i remember is our main ally, is thinking very concretely and above all acting to defend its supremacy, and that of the whole west, by containing china in the indo-pacific. we all, together with our transatlantic partners, must have a common goal: prevent china from becoming an ocean power by conquering taiwan. who controls the seas controls the world, it's often said. that is why the role of the island is strategic and fundamental to prevent a non-democratic country, and above all the country run by the largest communist party in the world, from prevailing in the geopolitical and economic field. so, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot turn the other way this time. this time europe must shout loudly: we're on the side of taiwan.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the 250% increase in the price of gas since january is a blow to the economy, to business, to the millions of citizens who will be faced with a crossroads: do i pay the bills or turn off the heat? this is a problem which affects the whole of europe, no one is excluded, and a european problem is answered by european solutions. the commission has so far proved weak and indecisive, it is up to the european council to put forward decisive measures, such as a joint storage plant, a proposal from the italian and spanish governments which must be accepted. we also need to accelerate on eco-energy and get rid of fossil fuels once and for all. the five star movement proposes a european super-bonus, because every watt saved is an investment for businesses and citizens. if europe really believes in the green deal, it must help to finance with european resources the efforts of the member states to upgrade the energy performance of their citizens' homes. the union must also include the european super-bonus among the investment policies that deserve to be removed from the stability and growth pact. no more budgetary constraints, let's invest in the future of our citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sudden rise in energy prices, which is also due to the european union's green policies, is holding back the recovery and is likely to have serious repercussions for businesses and citizens. in italy, despite the government's adjustments, households will spend an average of 300 euros more on electricity and gas this year. in the manufacturing sector, the high cost of energy is jeopardizing our newfound competitiveness, while the rise in fuel prices is already affecting many sectors that are the driving forces behind 'made in italy'. this puts a very ambitious, but certainly unrealistic, energy transition model into question. how many firms with risky profit margins will be able to invest in conversion? but more importantly, is it right that while the whole world is polluting, only europeans should pay the price of the green transition? europe reflects on these contradictions and pursues its climate goals with less ideology and more pragmatism.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the objectives of the un climate change conference is likely to be very similar to the 'bla bla bla' that your idol greta has spoken of. your actions on the environment are ineffective and costly, and it is not i who say this, nor we, but the european court of auditors, which has criticized you for having spent a mountain of money badly. in fact, 135 billion has already been spent and would have had no effect on the fight against climate change. despite mistakes and goals beyond your reach, you want to throw away more european taxpayers' money, another 320 billion for the next seven years and a billion for the green deal until 2030. green utopia is already doing damage in a crisis context: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. meanwhile, china continues to pollute quietly and has even ordered more than 120 coal mines to be fully operational. europe is experimenting at the expense of its citizens, letting itself be dictated to by those who do not give up cheap flights, air conditioning and the latest generation of telephones. the truth is that your green proposal feeds on catastrophism, but it does not offer any practical solutions in such a short time, with the risk of condemning us all to a self-inflicted economic regression. in short, we are calling for more pragmatism, a global approach, more time and more attention to citizens, rather than green fashion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fear is that the next cop will be reduced to the usual costly nothingness, pretending that there has been no pandemic and that the demand for certain energy sources can be generated by law. a survey published in italy a few days ago showed that 85 per cent of respondents believe that the energy transition is economically viable. this speaks volumes about the indoctrination work that has been done, because to talk about economic convenience means not having any idea of the sacrifices that will be required of the next generations. and as the question of raw materials becomes more and more dramatic, with the issue of supply now taking precedence over price, the union is asking europeans for tears and blood, creating the conditions for increased unemployment and new relocations. meanwhile, china is ramping up coal production. carbon dioxide prices are going up - probably going to exceed 100 euros per tonne - bills will go up, some people will be happy because renewables will finally be cheap, but of course this is a totally crazy philosophy because wages are fixed. we are in a post-pandemic environment, we cannot choke the recovery with inflation. we need time and flexibility, we need an energy mix where renewables must, of course, play a central role, but they must also be supported by transitional sources, such as gas. and in view of glasgow we must accept that talking about unattainable goals is not about being ambitious, but about continuing to make fun of people with unrealizable promises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has defined the union's position in view of the cop26 to be held in glasgow in the coming days, emphasising the need to step up the global response to the climate emergency and therefore the need for a just and above all equitable transition. that is why, when decisions are taken which have an immediate and direct impact on all citizens, we must not forget the specific features of our territories and the individual states within the union. as the shadow rapporteur for this report in the itre committee, i have worked for a long time to ensure that these differences could be highlighted and taken into account, so that the ecological transition does not represent a net loss for our companies, especially for small and medium-sized companies which - i would like to remind you - are a heritage not only of italy but of the whole of europe. we must obviously preserve the uniqueness of our territories and there is no urgency that can change this priority.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, instrumental, decontextualized and partial: i would like to say that the commission has not been able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the subject. my group pointed out at the conference of presidents that a 2020 europol report highlights that the violence cases were mostly originated from left-wing groups and not from right-wing groups, but this was not taken into account. then i read the debate title and ask myself a question: but what does racism have to do with the events in rome? open your eyes, because people are scared of bills, of inflation, of poverty, of the aftermath of the pandemic. it's a company split between secured and unsecured. we condemn the violence at the igc, commissioner, yes, we condemn it, but let us not forget the silence that followed the numerous attacks on the headquarters of the ugl, another union, a union that is not left-wing. my party, the league, has suffered hundreds of attacks in recent months, and you are silent. even in the last few days there have been incidents related to islamic radicalism, and you are silent. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. this is the plenary of the european parliament, not a party.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the mobilisation against the brutal attacks on the igc headquarters sent a very clear message to the whole of europe: italy has the antibodies to defend itself against the fascist virus. of course, it is true, there are those who persecute certain minorities, no vax, no pass, there are those who blow on discontent, there are those who, it is incredible, still give political residence to people who in the 21st century think they are doing politics with their right arm outstretched, who attack jews, who attack migrants, who attack sexual freedoms. that is why, mr fitto, it is essential that all the forces in this parliament, including the extreme right wing such as your group, cut off all ties with the violent and unambiguous. we expect clear words, we also expect convincing deeds. i say this in particular to the ecr group and the id group, because i think that you have also missed an important opportunity today, because instead of attacking the real problem of this continent, which is not fascism but nationalism and populism, you have attacked the european commission. that's great. and this is the division that i think is deep, beyond the debates on history, which i am not interested in, i do not believe that there is a fascist danger, i do not believe that there are fascist parties either in italy or elsewhere. but the difference between us and you, when it comes to extremism, is that we believe that the european union must act for the rule of law, must act for fundamental freedoms, that when we debate the rule of law it is not an undue interference in the sovereignty of a member state. you, on the other hand, think that sovereignty is absolute, so absolute that it can also absolutely suppress fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. if there is a real debate, and this debate today is useful, it is to mark the differences. i believe that we should continue to fight for the rule of law and fundamental freedoms throughout our continent.
the european parliament devotes an entire debate to denigrating its opponents by calling them 'extreme right-wingers', a term which is just a piece of language which you use as a scarecrow to attack all those who deviate from the official line and who shake up your system and its thinking. yesterday poland, today italy. with your woke ideology, you do not hesitate to condemn our history and to label our mores and culture as ideology of the extreme right. the far right is everywhere. but when battalions in ukraine carrying nazi symbols fight the russians, you keep quiet because they serve your interests and your sectarian ideology. when the islamist movement milli görüs organizes the nationalist fifth column of the dictator erdoğan in europe, you are no longer heard. you talk about the far right, but you are building a prison-like and sectarian europe. and despite serious warnings, like brexit, you are incapable of any questioning of your operation. the europeans are getting less and less fooled by your maneuvers. they know that when you call them the extreme right, you are trying to disqualify the only defenders of freedom, democracy and sovereignty. your federal europe has been a failure for 40 years. it will die to make way for what we are calling for with our vows: a great europe of free nations and peoples.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the democratic party won this debate last thursday, perhaps thinking that it would put the italian centre-right in a difficult position a few days before the administrative elections. i would remind myself and the whole house that the head of the democratic delegation was one of those who voted against the resolution condemning fascism, nazism and communism. this debate is a disgrace, because it cowardly tarnishes italy's image abroad and because it is based on a non-existent fact; there is no escalation of right-wing extremism in europe, least of all in rome. there was only one unfortunate incident caused by a few criminals already known to law enforcement and on the sidelines of a peaceful protest against the requirement of a green pass to work. end, that's all. but i'm glad that this debate is taking place, so you give us a chance to talk about the 2021 europol report on religious and political terrorism in the european union. it says here that the only political attacks in italy were left-wing, 24, and it says that the only left-wing attacks in europe were in italy. it says so. while data from eurojust, the agency, tells us of the escalation of trials for terrorist attacks in italy: 42 in the last year, 19 of a jihadist nature, 23 left-wing, zero as far as the far right is concerned. at the same time as the left was getting the celebration of this debate, europe was being drenched in the blood of david amess, a british conservative mp stabbed to death by a jihadist inside a church, and five passersby in denmark, almost all women, were being randomly killed by a jihadist with a bow and arrow. well, i'm afraid we'll never talk about that in here.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the nazi and communist regimes have committed mass murder, genocide and deportation, causing loss of life and freedom on a scale unprecedented in the 20th century. we have already mentioned this in the resolution on the european memory at the beginning of the legislature. we are still convinced of this and condemn all forms of totalitarianism. violence must always be condemned, everything from the violence of the thugs who invaded the cgil in rome to that of the black blocs or the social centres. that is why we oppose the left's instrumental use of false alarms to divide and confuse. according to europol, italy had no extreme right-wing terrorism last year, while 23 violent attacks were carried out by far-left and anarchist groups, and in 2018 we were the european country most affected by far-left attacks. as leonardo sciascia said, the finest example of a fascist one can find today is the self-styled anti-fascist who is only concerned with calling fascists those who are not fascists.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the right to peaceful protest is everyone's right. at the same time, all forms of violence must be rejected, and aggression must not be excused. but it is more than interesting to see why only the atrocities of the far right reach the threshold of the european parliament's wrath. in october 2006, under the socialist-liberal gyurcsány government, a peaceful gathering of commemoratives of the glorious hungarian revolution of 1956 was broken up by the police. i don't remember a debate or a condemnation. the police terrorists are lying to the most european party today and you are assisting them. on new year's eve 2016, migrants attacked women in cologne in a mass attack, which was followed by a police raid. the german press has silenced him. i don't remember an ep. in 2020, on the 21st, in the basque country, in madrid, at the vox campaign event, far-left provocateurs threw stones at politicians. i don't remember an ep. is it because the far left is in government with the socialists? last week in milan and turin leftists and anarchists caused chaos. why don't we talk about this? all i ask is that this house finally measure up to the standard. enough of the left side having a center and the right side having an edge. i expect the ep to reject aggression from the right and the left alike.
i have to say, madam president, it is easy to prove the inhumanity of nazis, as happened recently in rome. but their inhuman ideology has long since reached the so-called social centre. this is far from peaceful and neutral. because the middle also includes those who justify prison-like refugee shelters, those who support a brutal border policy, those who justify people drowning in the mediterranean every day, or those who accept hate speech against the state of israel or against queer people. as long as the left and the right are still equated, right-wing forces are gaining influence, and in a climate of acceptance of their ideology, far-right terrorism is not far away. that is why we must fight the right-wing extremist narrative in particular and say clearly: fascism is not an opinion, fascism is a crime.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the neo-fascist violence in rome, the authoritarian drift in poland and other countries, the building of an anti-system public opinion fuelled by fake and no-vax ideology and the racist twist in our society are all part of the same phenomenon: the growth of social resentment and increasingly violent forms of political struggle, also fuelled by the post-pandemic economic and social crisis. there are fascists, a minority, who must be stopped by any means and in every country of the union, starting with drastic interventions of public security. and there is a widespread, subcultural fascism, which affects hundreds of thousands of people and which we must combat with politics, dialogue, political and cultural education and with strong interventions of social inclusion, income and employment. what we are facing is a worldwide phenomenon concerning the fragility of our democracies. and it is a european theme. and we have to start from here public policies that can counteract this phenomenon.
in writing. a debate in the european parliament's plenary on the dangers of the rise of right-wing extremism and racism in the light of the events in rome on 9 october is simply not realistic. we condemn all forms of violence. but to talk about the danger of fascist violence in italy, when according to the latest europol report on political violence in europe, there were 24 political attacks in italy in 2020 and all of them are of the extreme left, is absolutely misleading and dirties the image of italy in this parliament and abroad. we cannot accept that plenary sessions are used by certain political groups for ideological and partisan debates. we condemn all forms of violence, whatever their origin.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy is certainly of considerable importance, but it has several criticisms which we are obliged to examine and on which the dossier does not provide any guarantees or any certainty. in fact, we still see some threats to our small businesses. as the id group, and we in the league in particular, have proposed a gradual and progressive reduction in emissions, because a sudden cut would harm our small and mediumsized enterprises in the first place and we cannot authorize it or at least endorse it. we all know that the european union contributes only 5% of total methane emissions and that the emissions released outside the european union to produce and supply fossil gas in the european union are 3-8 times the amount of emissions from within the union. although the objective of reducing emissions is therefore shared, the resulting problem is not only european. we are pleased to hear that other countries are joining in, but we are asking for an examination of the interlocking responsibilities in the global world, which is not addressed in the request.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner mcguinness, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to give a very thorough speech in one minute, but i would like to say something which i believe is of great importance to all european citizens. you see, our constituents are asking us: how come when we pay, maybe for a paycheck to go eat a pizza or a hamburger, to our children and we make a transfer on a prepaid card, even if it's only 20 euros, yes, 20 euros, we have to carry a set of documents that high? not just us who make the payment but also those who receive it, our children. and then we read in the newspapers that it is allowed to transfer from one part of the world to the other part of the world figures, i even read in the newspapers for the pandora papers, 32 trillion dollars. and nothing is happening. we are called upon to give answers to the citizens of europe. this parliament exists to give those kinds of answers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think that the agreement reaches an important step forward. firstly, multilateralism indexation matters demonstrate that it can deliver, and this is very important. and secondly, for the first time, we will be establishing at global level a minimum floor on tax competition, which is, indeed, very good news. but i also have to say that the agreement leaves a bitter taste in some of the aspects. 15 percent – we know it’s too low. and here we have to regret the role played by some also in europe, for instance, to take out the words ‘at least’ before 15 percent. secondly, the thresholds are too high. this will mean that those new rules, pillar one and pillar two, will affect only a very limited number of companies. and thirdly, the way pillar one is designed will mean that the revenues of the new mechanism will not go to countries that are more in need and where more activity actually happens. so it leaves a bitter taste, even though we recognise it’s an important step forward. now the question is what we do at the european level, and we fully agree that this agreement needs to be swiftly implemented as soon as possible. and here there are things where greater ambition cannot be put, but there are areas where we can actually, as europeans, put greater ambition. nothing prevents us to change the thresholds actually at european level to put more ambition on a deal. and here is, i think, something that the commission should look at, because this agreement is a very first step, but we need to go much beyond what has been agreed at the oecd level.
before we continue the debate, i would ask you to be patient for a moment. (the president declared the results of the vote) following this vote on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2022 all the individual items (2021/0227 ((bud))), i now ask the slovenian presidency to make a first statement in accordance with article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the council’s position on the draft budget for the financial year 2022. i take note of the differences in the positions of our two institutions concerning the draft budget for 2022 presented by the commission. consequently, in my capacity as president of the council, i agree that the president of the european parliament convenes the conciliation committee as required in point c of paragraph 4 of article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
i thank you for your statement and i hope that the negotiations will be resumed swiftly and that they will have a positive outcome in order to secure the future of europe. (the president declared the remaining votes to be taken)
we now continue our debate on the statements by the council and the commission (2021/2936 (rsp)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion. however, there are still many countries, from fiji to panama, that do not have cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. so what is the point of the proposed global code of conduct? the following on the proposed global tax rate of 15 percent: taxation is a national competence and tax competition is one of them. the tax foundation has shown that corporate tax is mainly borne by employees and consumers. up to 70 percent of the tax burden falls on labor. when the us lowered the tax rate, it was demonstrably good for investment, jobs and wages. the global minimum corporate tax is not so much about ending tax competition between countries, but rather about ending the competition between the wishes of progressives and reality.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i am pleased that a compromise has finally been reached on the reform of the global tax system, which hungary was happy to join. i am proud that, despite the enormous pressure, we have been able to take a determined and consistent stance and actively shape the agreement on the international stage. i think our most important result is that the corporate tax rate in hungary remains at 9 percent and the agreement does not impose a new burden on manufacturing companies. the devil, however, is in the details. i agree that the relevant eu legislation should also be developed to ensure consistency with eu law and uniform implementation. i hope, however, that the union does not intend to shoot itself in the foot. if we want to catch up with china and the us, we must not lose sight of the issue of competitiveness. fair tax competition is a good thing, tax harmonization would kill it and force companies abroad. so let us not introduce stricter rules in the union than those contained in the global agreement. finally, we must not forget that this is a matter of national competence. consensus shall be sought, respecting the position of each member state.
mr president, the first thing i want to express today is a great sense of achievement. one hundred and thirty-six countries have finally reached an agreement to end the deleterious race to the bottom caused by deregulated international fiscal competition. this agreement will help us fight fiscal elusion, fiscal dumping and will provide new resources to many countries that can be used to address social inequalities and to support economic recovery. someone says it’s not enough. yes, many of us would have loved to see a more ambitious agreement. but now we have two choices. we can keep complaining and despise the agreement, or we can acknowledge the enormous effort made, and we can push for a rapid and effective implementation of the agreement in the european union as soon as possible. we choose this latter option and we call on all the parties involved at the commission, the council and every member state to take a step forward and to facilitate such fast and strict implementation. now, more than ever, we need more tax justice. let’s get started.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's migration policy is a failure. twelve european countries with governments of both right and left are calling for the illegal immigration to be stopped by all means necessary, and what does europe say? he shrugs and continues to do nothing, succumbing to his own goodness. there are those who have fought human traffickers, like the leader of the league salvini, and incredibly risk prison for enforcing the laws, and those who, like europe, do nothing to restrict departures and landings, fueling the hospitality business. we must not forget the danger of islamic extremism, since many terrorists have arrived by sea or by the balkan route. the european union is a continuous disaster on immigration: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed. just empty words and a pathetic attitude. you're being told by captain carola that she wants all illegal immigrants in europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the first nine months of the year more than ten thousand people were rejected, many of them minors. violent rejections, carried out with beatings and blows, we have seen the pictures of these violence, we have heard the stories of the migrants. and it is this violence that some governments want to legalize. we are talking about serious violations of the principle of non-refoulement and fundamental rights. we are talking about human beings being beaten and sent back without being granted the right to seek asylum. the polish deputy minister was not ashamed to admit that children are being turned away at the border. what do we have to investigate? twelve ministers were not ashamed to ask the union to build walls, walls which, as we know, will not serve to stop people, but to make us ashamed of having thought of it. but it would take little: internal solidarity and respect for people. i ask the commission to monitor the situation and to act as guardian of the treaties. we also need an independent monitoring mechanism at our borders, as my group called for in its letter to president von der leyen today. we must act immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the political and media offensive against the defence of europe's frontiers is growing ever more powerful. in the current migration crisis, powerful lobbies are at work to influence governments and make european populations accept the massive illegal immigration that is coming to europe. the many initiatives funded by george soros' open society demonstrate that these lobbies have a clear plan of action to achieve their goals. since the year 2000, several million non-europeans, overwhelmingly muslims, have emigrated to europe by air, by sea, or by the so-called balkan route. after a lull during the health crisis, illegal immigration has increased sharply since the beginning of 2021, as recently highlighted by frontex agency data, while in italy, since matteo salvini is no longer interior minister, illegal entries have increased by 673 percent. it is therefore clear that ever more stringent border controls are needed. the discussion of frontex has certainly been influenced by the aggressive campaign of politicians and the media over the last year. the other side of the argument is of course the ngos, who accuse the frontex agency of not respecting human rights. with suspicious zeal, organizations such as sea-watch, mediterranea and others have launched a campaign to dismantle frontex, without, of course, proposing any alternative. in other words, these organisations imagine a europe without any transnational reality that aims to combat mass illegal immigration. we do not want to see the european union's border controls being used for other purposes than those for which the agency was set up, but we do not want to see the tasks and objectives of the agency itself being called into question. monitoring land and sea and the return of people trying to reach the european union illegally remains a top priority which we could not pursue without an agency like frontex. we must instead focus on the reinforcement that will follow the entry into force of the european standing corps, which will be deployed along the borders and equipped with weapons. europe cannot leave the member states alone in their control and deterrence activities, but it is right that it should use all the resources necessary to assist european citizens and to ensure their safety and defence.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. we in our group are often critical and caustic even in our criticism, but we recognize when a job is done well, and above all when it is done for the benefit of the european citizens who benefit from these agreements. we can say that we are basically satisfied with the result, because the scope of the legislation has been clarified, for example, so that electric vehicles and electric scooters are also being regulated, although this could be expanded a little. in italy there is a debate on the regulation of insurance, for example, of scooters or anything that does not have so-called muscle traction. everything with electrically assisted traction should be regulated in some way, including insurance. the increase in the protection of injured persons, including in the event of accidents involving vehicles from another country, with foreign vehicles, is also important. for those of us from border areas like me, these are things that unfortunately happen quite frequently, so that's another important point. we say that the most important thing about this measure, however, is the protection of citizens, especially with regard to the harmonization of minimum amounts, as well as the protection of guarantees for companies that fail, which in any case allow european citizens to find compensation, to find satisfaction at the moment when they are victims of an accident. the damage must be compensated, the damage must be satisfied. as regards the work on reducing road casualties, there is still a lot of work to be done, but i am sure that we will all be actively involved in this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis we have been witnessing in the last few hours on the polish-belarusian border is yet another attempt by a non-eu country to destabilise europe with a hybrid threat. the european union is facing a blackmail, a blackmail to which europe is responding, a blackmail to which europe is looking on, not deciding, but judging, by those who are promoting the illegal trafficking of migrants. the threat, like that in brussels, of infringement proceedings against member states which defend their borders, like poland, only serves to encourage criminal business. the defence of europe's borders, whether they are with belarus, between greece and turkey or in the mediterranean sea, is the priority to be achieved by any means, including the erection of walls. the images coming from the border show thousands of migrants massing, arriving after paying, behind the false promise of being able to enter europe. and you are accomplices! we hope that brussels will take decisive action, with concrete measures to prevent illegal border crossings; we call for greater cooperation with third countries, particularly in terms of readmission and prevention of departures, by linking the receipt of economic and development aid and the conclusion of visa agreements to them. unfortunately, in this house, we often choose to speak from only one point of view, that of the left, always ready to point the finger surgically at legitimately elected governments which are not to their liking. today's is just one example. we stand with poland, with those who decide not to submit to blackmail, always on the side of the european citizens. if europe is truly united, it should do something instead of just watching.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 november 1989 the berlin wall fell: it was the triumph of freedom and the final fall of a totalitarian system that oppressed the peoples of the east. since then great strides have been made by countries that were formerly crushed under soviet influence. today, 32 years after that day, the wall must be erected, not to isolate us but to protect the peoples of europe from the blackmail of foreign powers. in an attempt to emulate erdoğan's provocations, today the belarusian dictator lukashenko exploits migrants in order to blackmail europe as his turkish counterpart did. the poles have already paid a lot: first with the nazis, then with the communists. our firm resolve as europeans must be to defend poland as we have failed to do in the past and, consequently, to protect our land. in recent weeks, on several occasions, some people have spent hours in this chamber questioning poland, a piece of european history. it is time that everyone understood that the security of our citizens depends on that side of our continent and that it must be defended at all costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am starting from the assumption that lukashenko's action is of course to be condemned without reservation. president charles michel announced the opening of a discussion on the financing of physical barriers against migrants: but what are we talking about? we're talking about immoral acts, not illegal ones. they keep talking about hybrid war against the european union: it's very clear to me that people should not be exploited, but we absolutely do not play their game! we put people first. these are human beings, not enemies to defend ourselves against. we're talking about people who are being violently and brutally rejected. people crammed on our borders, left out in the cold with no food and no care; people who are not allowed to apply for asylum. i have no other words but one: shame on you! shame on you! 15,000 police were deployed against innocent, unarmed and unarmed people. not even if we were at war! stop talking about war, let's talk about a humanitarian emergency and let's live up to the founding values of this union: the european union is a union without walls, a union of rights, a union without hatred!
in writing. what is happening at the border between poland and belarus is extremely serious. as erdogan has done in the past, the belarusian dictator lukashenko is using migrants to threaten europe in a new form of hybrid warfare right on europe's border. with this threat, the issue of border protection has finally returned to the agenda in brussels, gaining a central place in the political debate. border protection and security, especially for those states on europe's borders, such as poland and italy, are of crucial importance to tackling today's geopolitical challenges and to avoiding the threat of illegal waves of migration fomented by dictators from third countries. the security of not just the member states but of the whole european union is at stake. we need decisive action from brussels to secure it and defend our borders.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, problems of press freedom exist even in countries which are regarded as the bulwarks of democracy. the case of assange is emblematic and the european institutions should take a more decisive approach to the problem. in the silence of the media themselves, there are many journalists forced to defend themselves against reckless lawsuits, made only to hinder their work, which is the basis of the right of citizens to be informed. journalists have already been subjected to searches, interceptions or investigations to find sources and block their reporting activities. parliament has done its part with today's excellent report, and we now expect an ambitious legislative proposal from the commission. the cooperation of the member states is also needed, because we can no longer hear stories of journalists like those of report, lorenzo tondo or alfio caruso, who are brought to trial and sometimes even condemned - in situations of obvious conflict of interest - simply for telling the truth.
madam president, commissioner, i think we have already discussed this subject. without freedom of the press and freedom of speech, we cannot say we have a democracy. but we all know that in the crisis, the pressure on the press is even greater, and so in the two years since we've been in this pandemic crisis, if you look state by state, you'll see that a lot of journalists have suffered. they are not allowed to express, for example, and to show to the citizens - because after all the press informs the citizens - cases of illness or certain documentaries, documentary films from specialists from other states. this is an example from my country and we have to say, yes, there is subsidiarity, the member states have regulated the functioning of the press through institutions like we have the national audiovisual council, but they are given fines every day, every week, for abandoning. that is what 'the punch in the mouth' means, and i believe, commissioner, that we, parliament, have now done our duty. i think you should come up with a proposal for a uniform regulation at the level of the european union because, after all, journalism is becoming cross-border.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i think that the debate showed that we are dealing with a very important, urgent issue and that we are speaking here about a very important report, which i am really thankful for because it is the report encouraging the commission to take action and to prepare the package that will contain legislation and non-legislative measures. and i take a very clear message from this debate that justice must not be, or continue to be, instrumentalised against freedom of speech. the commission is determined to put on the table a very solid anti-slapp package that could be adopted by the co-legislators speedily. we need these rules on the ground without any further delay. i would like to recall that this initiative is part of a wider effort to protect media freedom and media pluralism. unfortunately, we see developments which raise really very serious concerns. together with increasing threats to their physical and online safety, legal threats and abusive litigation add to an environment where hostile activity against journalists is growing and can have a serious impact on their willingness and ability to continue their work. this was also underlined in this year’s state of the union speech of the commission president, and this is why we address the different aspects. as a first step, we have recently adopted a recommendation on the protection, safety and empowerment of journalists and other media workers, but there is more to come. work is ongoing to prepare a european media freedom act to safeguard media freedom in the eu. your report also refers to these two initiatives. with the european media freedom act, we aim to increase transparency, independence and accountability around actions affecting media freedom and pluralism. the situation of media in europe is getting worse, and we have never done so many things as in this mandate. and so i think that this debate also, as i said, is very encouraging for all of us to continue the work, and i am sure i can count on your sustained support.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you very much for this debate and i think the message from the european parliament today is clear. we encourage the european commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal. commissioner, thank you so much for your words. i really just wanted to underline, in your recent rule of law report, you also covered strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapps) and i think it is really important to highlight the danger of these lawsuits, so i am really happy that you already covered it. but parliament really encourages you today to be ambitious. there have been a few exemptions, but they are the obvious ones. i think it is really clear that we as the european parliament stand behind journalists, behind scientists and we stand up for press freedom and the rule of law. i would like to thank all colleagues for their support, and i would especially thank my co-rapporteur roberta metsola for this very good cooperation. we worked together very well in a spirit of defending civil society activists so thank you so much, and i would also like to thank our teams and advisors who really intensively worked on this report. today, i am proud of what we achieved so far, and i hope that we will continue this and will have a successful package in the end to protect journalists and ngos from slapps. thank you very much, and i hope to see you with the for the final package in a few months.
rapporteur. – madam president, i should like to thank everyone for taking part in this debate. thank you to tiemo and all our shadows for their excellent cooperation and shared purpose. thank you, madam commissioner, for your commitment on this issue. thank you, vice-president. the ball is now in your court to propose laws that truly make a difference, and there is the blueprint here for europe to be a safe space for journalists. together, we have an obligation to preserve the fourth pillar of our democracy when others simply want to chip away at it. so let me end with a short appeal: what we've heard today shows us how important this issue is for us. it is important institutionally, but also personally. this is for daphne caruana galizia, who was assassinated with 42 slapp suits pending against her and her bank accounts frozen before any judgment was handed down. this is for ján kuciak and his fiancée, who were murdered for reporting facts. this is for all those media houses who had to choose between funding a court case or paying their staff. this is for all those aspiring to be journalists in our europe. for them and for us all i would urge you to vote in favour of this report tomorrow. let this house show them that they can truly rely on our protection.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on thursday 11 november 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. – media freedom is fundamental and we must do our utmost to safeguard and protect free independent media across the eu. in the last years, shocking assassinations across the union have reminded us that while democracy strengthened with time and technology, freedom of expression remains under attack. the rule of law and good governance are our union’s fundamental values. malta and the s&d strongly share the same aims and objectives in safeguarding the protection of journalists. i’m glad we are today discussing the report by two of my colleagues, proposing eu-wide anti-slapp legislation; i’m more satisfied that malta is at the forefront of introducing its own anti-slapp legislation, part of our media and defamation act, which i believe will be in line and go beyond, in some areas, what will be enacted at eu level. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), i focused mainly on widening the protection to artists, academics and civil society - who shape opinions within our society and strengthen our democracy. they deserve the same protection. look at the work by the atlas of hate in poland. court cases initiated against young artists for simply outlining the municipalities declaring themselves ‘lgbt-free-zones’. we must be on their side too.
in writing. when they joined the european union, all countries accepted the union's fundamental values, which include not only the principles, norms, institutions and rule of law of liberal democracy, but also freedom of the press. these points, as well as many others, are about minimum wage, corruption, inflation and i could go on and on hungary is a military power. but let's get back to freedom of the press. the orbán government and its foreign allies are systematically reducing the media market until only their own media remains on the market, not only in hungary but also abroad. journalists are being wiretapped, their work is being compromised, newspapers are being bought or closed. meanwhile, orbán is pouring millions into his own newspapers. today, viktor orbán personally owns more than 500 newspapers in hungary, which he edits at will. as i mentioned, orbán and his cronies are already expanding into other countries, such as slovenia and romania, where they use their newspapers to promote themselves and their friends. therefore, the european union, if it wants to protect its core values, one of which is freedom of the press, cannot open the money trap for orbán in order to protect hungarians and the population living abroad targeted by orbán.
in writing. although much progress has been made in europe in the field of freedom of expression in recent decades, this issue still remains a challenge even in today's democracies. over the years, techniques for restricting or circumventing the right to freedom of expression have been refined through strategic lawsuits to discourage public participation, known as slapp lawsuits. in addition, the commission has also been involved in the implementation of the un guidelines on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, which are based on the un guidelines on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. to date, no legislation exists in any member state against such litigation. this is problematic. the murder of maltese investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia, who was facing more than 40 civil and criminal cases when she was murdered in october 2017, was a wake-up call for europe. the european parliament therefore urges the european commission to establish an ambitious european legislative framework to protect media freedom and to use european funds to provide support to victims of slapp cases.
in writing. democracy, the rule of law and freedom of expression are among the eu's fundamental values. these are things that allow, among other things, the existence of a free media that acts as a watchdog of power and the investigation and exposure of possible abuses by those in power. it is therefore regrettable that in europe there is a widespread tendency to use legal action or the threat of legal action to silence those who are exercising their civil rights. such actions weaken the openness of society and silence the very voices we should be listening to more closely. it is particularly deplorable that in some cases this silence has been practiced even by the authorities of the member states. investigative journalists and ngos must be able to do their work in peace from legal harassment. it is excellent that the problem has been addressed, but it is not enough. we need action to ensure that the courts act as guardians of fundamental rights and the eu's fundamental values, not as their limiters. it remains to be seen whether the commission's proposal, which will be published at the beginning of the year, is sufficiently ambitious in this respect.
recommendation for second reading by mr regner and mr garcía del blanco on the disclosure of income tax information by certain companies and branches (2016/0107 ((cod)) a9-0305/2021 i would remind you that you can request the speeches and questions for the blue card through your voting machine after you have put your voting card in the machine. so i ask you to take your voting card with you at all times. instructions are available in the conference room. if you wish to request a request for an allowance, you can do so now and not at the end of the debate. i would also remind you that the floor in the chamber is still used for speeches from the chair in the centre of the chamber, with the exception of speeches on request, blue card questions and speeches on the agenda. i urge you to follow the list of speakers and move closer to the podium as your time to speak begins.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this was a team effort. i'll say this up front. a big thank you to all those who worked so hard on this - the shadow rapporteurs in particular, the finnish presidency, which was very committed here from 2019 onwards, but above all the portuguese presidency, which then brought this to a close with a lot of energy. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr garcía del blanco, who is also a member of the juri committee. so persistence pays off. i am proud to say today that the european parliament has not only heard the calls of the people for tax transparency for large corporations - yes, we have answered those calls, and our answer is public country-by-country reporting, public cbcr. this is the directive on country-specific tax transparency for corporations. this eu directive will for the first time require multinational companies to make their tax information public. for too long, big corporations have played by their own rules, and for too long we have had to watch as legislators. it's over now. and when we talk about tax justice, one thing is clear: if you want tax justice, you need tax transparency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted. in 2016, five years ago, the panama papers shook the world. the panama papers uncovered countless cases of tax evasion and illegal activity around the world. and so they started the necessary debate on tax morality. our aim in this house, in the ep, is and has been to shine a light on the shadow world of taxation through public country-specific reporting. what have we achieved? we get the disclosure of tax and financial information: large multinational companies in the eu must disclose where they make profits, where they pay taxes and this also applies to countries in the eu tax havens. the target group is all companies with an annual turnover of more than eur 750 million operating in the eu. the public country reporting directive will enable us in the european union to put our own house in order - that is, we will finally have access to new information on all member states and their tax havens. and that's why this is so important, because about 80 percent of the profits that are shifted out of the european union are shifted into the eu tax havens, so mainly to ireland, luxembourg, the netherlands and others, as studies by the renowned economist gabriel zucman and others have shown. and that is where our policy comes in. we closed a very important transparency loophole. we have succeeded in transforming the comply-or-explain provision proposed by the council into a comply-and-explain provision. we are going after the letterbox companies: companies have to report how many full-time employees are employed not only in the parent company, but also in each subsidiary. we also strengthen trade unions in their collective bargaining. and most importantly, we get free and open access to corporate tax and financial data. it means that the company information is available to all of us, free of charge, in an open format and a common template on the corporate websites, among other things. all this and more will be implemented in the member states as early as 2023. thanks to these new rules, we will now know which companies are the front runners and which are making their fair share. the european union is leading the way here, and i am quite sure that many other countries will follow.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, let me thank the rapporteurs, evelyn regner and mr garcía del blanco, for their work in striking an interinstitutional agreement on the commission’s proposal for the disclosure of income tax information. i would also like to thank the shadows for their input. i would also like to express my appreciation for the hard work of the successive council presidencies over the last five years, especially ambassador pedro lourtie of the portuguese presidency, for enabling a positive conclusion on this file. a healthy single market needs a fair, efficient and growth-friendly tax system. we also need informed democratic debates and control to ensure public trust in our tax system. the commission made this proposal in 2015 in order to address the european citizens’ demand for transparency over large multinational enterprises by enabling public scrutiny on where their profits are won and where they pay corporate tax. this public country-by-country reporting will rebuild trust in our businesses and in the fairness of our tax systems. the text debated today requires all multinational enterprises with a turnover exceeding eur 750 million to publish the profits they make and the tax they pay in each member state of the union, as well as in non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. to complete the picture, enterprises will also disclose the aggregated figure on corporate tax paid outside the union. this country-by-country reporting will complement similar reporting already in force in the union for all banks, as well as for large companies in the extractive industry. in this respect, the european union is undoubtedly a frontrunner on such transparency for the greater public interest. let me conclude by saying that it is a pleasure to see the file debated today. this will hopefully be followed by a positive vote tomorrow. i am looking forward to hearing the debate, but one thing i know for sure is that our citizens will be observing what the union can do for them and how it is working to achieve an economy that works for the people.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to say that we are prepared as a group to support this proposal in the form of a resolution by the two committees responsible for examining the text. let me say that i personally welcome the fact that after all these years we have finally managed to get this material moving and that this is another concrete expression of how we are fighting tax evasion, profit diversion and what we have recently spoken about at our plenary meeting in strasbourg, where we commented on the international scandal and the so-called pandora papers case. the measure we are discussing today and approving tomorrow will also help to reduce the circle of those who do not want to pay their taxes honestly, who speculate and invent ways of diverting their profits, ways of preventing their profits from being taxed fairly. one of the defenses against this is the disclosure of information, and that's what this is about. i would like to thank both of my colleagues for their work, and the commissioner for her report. if there's enough publicity, it's going to be very difficult to divert profits, to hide profits, and to tax them in tax havens. i believe this proposal is in the public interest. the citizens of the european union should know what profits and what taxes are paid on those profits by large multinational companies operating in the european union. in addition, other information that is important for collective bargaining, for example, will be published. i'm convinced that this amount of information will do no harm to a large multinational corporation. the principle of proportionality is thus respected, sufficient privacy is maintained and information which is necessary to disclose in the public interest is disclosed. so we support the material.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, after five years of deadlock in the council, we finally managed to seal a deal on the public country-by-country reporting, which is a crucial transparency tool. thanks to the work of this parliament, big multinationals will be obliged to publicly disclose where they make profits and where they pay their taxes. the agreement also includes the obligation for companies to publish how many full-time employees they have, their turnover and taxes paid, as well as all the profits and losses they have in each country they operate in – in the european union and in tax havens. thanks to this transparency, citizens will know which companies are freeriding and which are contributing their fair share to society. this is part of a bigger effort that we are leading towards creating a more just and fair society. along with the international tax agreement, a new wave of tax justice is now on the agenda of the european debate and of the international one, and we will keep pushing and step-by-step we will build a better union.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the european education area must be established as a strategic instrument to promote inclusiveness and accessibility for all. it must also be an opportunity to give vocational training a clear identity, like all other training paths. in recent days i have been confronted with a training centre of excellence in apulia, an example of good practice, able to make a concrete contribution to the construction of the area, first of all by making the mobility of students and teachers a reality; secondly, by enhancing the teaching profession in terms of initial education and professional development; the aim of the project is to develop a european network of experts in the field of digital skills and to develop a european network of experts in the field of digital skills. these, in my view, are some of the most effective interventions in creating a european education area that is truly accessible and inclusive.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. as shadow rapporteur for the empl opinion, i appreciate that the report reflects our priorities for education while maintaining the principle of subsidiarity. i also thank my colleague mrs šojdra for this balance. education should not be aimed exclusively at employment. education should primarily serve the personal development of the individual and be tailored to his individual needs. whether it is in relation to inclusion for people with disabilities, re-skilling when losing a job or wanting to develop further in old age. this is why, in addition to focusing on professional specialisations, we should also focus on so-called cross-cutting skills, such as media literacy, critical thinking, intercultural and interreligious competences. i see this concept of the european education area as an opportunity to break with the conventional view of education. let's open up the possibility of development for everyone, regardless of age, special needs or socioeconomic status, because only then can we create a society that is resilient to change and provides equal opportunities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that there will be no recovery without a real commitment to education and training. today more than ever we need a european education area and an approach to education that is holistic, inclusive, integrated, that puts learners and the most vulnerable at the centre, that guarantees equal opportunities for all in accessing the labour market. concrete measures are needed, such as the automatic recognition of qualifications, periods of study abroad or volunteering, the development of european micro-credentials allowing the recognition of vocational training, as well as the recognition of the skills of third-country nationals - an important issue - to facilitate their access to education and employment. all of this has to come from an unprecedented financial commitment by member states, who we ask to allocate a good part of the recovery and resilience plan and public spending to education, because this is the real investment that looks to the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since 2017 the european commission has presented various initiatives aimed at creating a european education area by 2025. the objectives to be achieved include the green and digital transition, increased collaboration between schools, the strengthening of foreign language learning and the adoption of the european student charter. these are ambitious goals, but they can be achieved if all students have equal access to education: i am referring in particular to students from the most vulnerable groups, to students with disabilities or learning difficulties. social inclusion must be the main challenge to be met in order to achieve a genuine european education area. the european union can and must ensure inclusive and accessible education for all european students. education is a right, no one should be left behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has given two dutch companies eur 2 million in a package of measures to help them recover from the economic crisis, to develop laboratory meat production. it's money that goes to the meat-testing business, which is to figure out: we fund the synthetic meat. it is unacceptable to support companies which sell products obtained from cell multiplication in the laboratory for meat. your offensive against the flesh, the real one, is truly reaching incredible paradoxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's farmers are not left behind. you do this to support synthetic and ultra-processed products, the impact of which, by the way, is not even known on human health and the environment. this waste of money is a slap in the face to the meat industry, brought to its knees by the crisis. we are tired of a europe that tramples on products that are part of our history and our food culture.
mr president, the flooding that has hit sicily in the past weeks apparently will be a common phenomenon in the future. we have been talking about the rise of one or one and a half degrees on the planet for years, and i think was not enough to convince the people about the real issue of climate change. but now, with a temperature higher than the seasonal average, a more evident phenomenon is waking up the conscience. the fury of the wind is more even than some degrees more for a human being. that’s why we must act and take a decision now to avoid the first mediterranean hurricane, which will be also the last. i am very close to my island. i hope the solidarity fund will be activated. la sicilia si rialzerà e dobbiamo aiutarla, perché è una perla della nostra europa!
in the name of the id group. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome the new dialogue with the united states: cybersecurity, digital, data management, the big global challenges are just some of the important elements to discuss. it is also good that we are not talking about a free trade agreement, which would take us far and lead us into difficult conflicts on issues such as agriculture, but we do have some issues to think about. for example, i, of course, like everyone else, welcome the american opening up on the subject of steel and aluminium tariffs, but at the moment they only serve some exporters but will only increase the steel shortage that is currently facing our producers in europe, on which i think we will need to take further action. and then there are issues that concern our geopolitical credibility as an institution because, on the one hand, it seems to me -- i've said this before -- we have to be atlanticists all the time, even when republicans are in power, not just when democrats are in power. and then there are cases, such as the one that emerged from a journalistic investigation in the last few days about german engines being sold to chinese warships, when here, in this house too, there are members who have been sanctioned for their positions on china or others who went to taiwan a few days ago. i would not like anyone to confuse autonomy with irrelevance, because what is at stake here is the credibility of a transatlantic relationship which must be consistent in all the actions of the european union and the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at this historic moment the pro-european forces in the european parliament are advancing a vision of what the social dimension of this new europe of renewal and rebirth should be. we are facing major challenges in the evolution of work, new professions, support for employment and social policies, and even the european minimum wage. i believe that we must also respond to the 13 million frontier workers, mobile, seasonal and posted, who are struggling every day to have their rights recognized. the rules are there, but the instruments to implement them are lacking. the european social security number is therefore indispensable to link up national systems and enable the authorities to carry out checks, prevent abuses and punish those who exploit them, but at the same time i believe it is an extraordinary tool to promote the geographical mobility of workers and to make the european labour market more dynamic. as the 5 star movement we strongly support this resolution and ask the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal by 2022, so that we can restore dignity to these workers and abolish unfair competition, so that there is no more room for those who take advantage of the weakest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner schmit, the introduction of a european social security card, taking as a reference the pilot project of the italian social security institute, could prove to be an effective tool for making social security rights more visible and accessible digitally, in order to identify and record cases of social dumping, underground work or similar operations. commissioner, the texts of the oral question and the resolution have been softened and refocused within the right competence and perspective, also with our contribution. however, the aspects on which we still remain skeptical or lukewarm are: the call to legislate a priori and make this instrument mandatory in all member states without waiting for the results of impact assessments; the commission has also proposed that the european passport be linked to the labour charter, effectively extending the scope of application from social security coordination to actual labour law, while the information exchanged should only concern identity, place of work and the various social security benefits. we shall see in the future, on the basis of the position which the commission will adopt, on which aspects we may concentrate our observations and our contribution.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, appliance, furniture and car manufacturers are experiencing a production slump and this is not good news for helping demand to pick up. the problem of prices has now been overcome by that of the supply of raw materials. for many countries in the union, which are heavily dependent on imports, this is a major problem, not least because we are talking about essential elements for the energy and digital transitions. the energy transition, if not addressed, risks becoming a dead end for the union, as the number of essential raw materials has doubled in the last decade and dependence on third countries seems to have reached a point of no return. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. it would also be useful to reflect on the fact that the union has chosen to outsource extraction and refining to third countries. for the love of god, these are polluting processes, but even outsourcing everything has costs. finally, ladies and gentlemen, a final reflection on the price of wheat, which has reached its highest price in the last nine years. i mention this because perhaps many people have not understood it, but the consumption of agricultural goods to produce energy in a few years will exceed that for food, with the consequence that food will cost much more and, if for the western world we talk about inflation, for the developing countries the challenge will not be to decarbonize, but to be able to eat.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial regulation is the motor of the european union and without it the administrative and political machinery will come to a standstill. we cannot afford to be held back and we must ensure that the fundamental principles of the eu are an active part of this regulation. the fuel that moves europe is and must be the protection of the rule of law and democratic and transparent control of the use of these funds. our ally in this process is digitization. this will enable us to control the spending of european funds and ensure communication between the european commission and the member states. we will be able to combat fraud and also the abuses which unfortunately are spreading throughout europe. we must also do more about the conflict of interest, the new dark european evil. the european union faces great challenges and only with transparency and clear and verifiable rules can we put it at the service of the citizens.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank mrs montserrat for the excellent work she has done and for having taken account of the recommendations contained in the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, on which i was rapporteur. this initiative expresses parliament's desire to ensure better prevention and response to future health emergencies and to encourage the development and competitiveness of european businesses. in this regard, it is crucial to maintain a european intellectual property system that is sound, efficient and balanced in order to encourage research and production in the union and to ensure that europe remains innovative and a world leader. in addition, the strategy has the patient at its core and focuses on key issues at the heart of the european legislative agenda for the coming years, such as the fight against antimicrobial resistance, rare and chronic diseases and paediatric cancers. i therefore welcome the report and invite all members to vote in favour of it.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the work that led to the vote in plenary on the new pharmaceutical strategy for europe was intense and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs dolors montserrat, for the great and fruitful spirit of collaboration she has shown. the text we have come to represents more than just a step forward for our health: it's a 360-degree surgery, bringing the patient's attention and care back to center. we will be able to ensure accessible medicines, tackle antimicrobial resistance as a serious threat to public health, respond to unmet medical needs, such as the revision of the orphan medicines regulation, foster competitiveness, innovation and sustainability of the european pharmaceutical sector, and the production of high quality, safe and effective medicines, such as generics and biosimilars. as a doctor, i am pleased that these vital goals have been achieved, thanks in part to our contribution. one example of all is the increased focus on women, who are too often underrepresented in biomedical and health data. today, for the first time, they will be fully included in the research, diagnosis, treatment and impact assessment of medicines and therapies. perhaps we could have done more for home care. i still believe that home care can play a fundamental and far-reaching role for many patients, such as those with long-term illnesses, and also in reducing the economic burden on the health sector. the pandemic has shown us clearly that the european union is not prepared to deal with such a health crisis. however, this experience is teaching us that behind every great difficulty there is always a great opportunity to be seized. today we have before us an important piece of building a better pharmaceutical strategy for the health of all our citizens. we can't lose this chance!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cap is one of the points which gives meaning to the very existence of europe. we are not satisfied with too many downward compromises, we would have liked an immediate and more marked change. but to keep the old cap would have been suicide for european farmers and consumers. there are important steps forward. stop the money from exploiting workers, and that's a great achievement. the concept of animal welfare is being introduced and we will fight to ensure that it is respected more and more and against all cruelty. but we must do more for hemp, the plant of the future, and we must above all rely on agriculture as a pillar of the ecological transition and therefore of our future. the 60% of resources for green architecture, the 25% for ecosystems, which we would have liked to make compulsory and will have to make compulsory, and the 4% of inactive hectares are for us only the beginning of a green revolution, which must be carried out together with farmers, especially small farmers, and not against them. national plans and future trade agreements with other economies must ensure that strict ecological standards are met. never again will we import products that do not meet the standards we impose on our producers. there is a rich green future for our europe and it is up to us to make it happen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the agreement reached in the trilogue is crucial because it guarantees a new cap integrated, for the first time, by a green architecture and social conditionality, but i think the real challenge begins tomorrow. member states will have to be able to incorporate the new principles into their national strategic plans, supporting thousands of small farmers, especially young people and women, to innovate and make their production sustainable by guaranteeing their fair income. the alignment of the cap with the green new deal will therefore need to combine legal certainty with ambitious, realistic targets and monitoring. social conditionality will have to defeat the corporate and reward those who create quality employment, allowing the deduction of labour costs in the calculation of the capping. it is therefore time to extend the country of origin requirement to all products, to reject misleading labelling schemes such as nutri-score, to ensure a strong external projection of the cap, and to ensure that environmental, health and social standards are reciprocated in trade agreements. only by combining the local and global dimensions, as well as the three pillars of sustainability, can we truly strengthen the agri-food sector, making it the vanguard of the green and social revolution that the new europe intends to represent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today the agricultural world will have the new cap, because we are sure that it will be, and we are glad that the negotiations have come to an end, so that we can give oxygen to our farmers who, after doctors and nurses, i would like to remind you, were on the front line during the pandemic, providing food for europe. the commissioner will remember how many times we have mentioned this and brought it to his attention. but these same farmers will have to suffer a particularly heavy financial cut for my country, italy, with a loss of 15% compared with past programming. green policies have been the driving force in the negotiations, forgetting and often denigrating certain sectors already in economic distress, such as meat, by allowing the use of plant or synthetic preparations. it is also regrettable that decaffeinated wines will be included in the wine products, a further blow that europe wants to give to italy, which is already under attack for the prosecco case. we as the league want a europe which defends our names, our products and our farmers, and we will make our priority known to you in every situation, place and file. we will then make our practical contribution, commissioner, to each dossier, responsibly but knowing that we are talking about our territories and our products and we are talking to our people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. those who argue for the new cap often state that it is at least better than the current one. and that may be true, but at the same time this proposal does not meet at all the expectations we should have of a green, modern, animal-friendly european agriculture. maybe modern politicians know more about greta gris than they do about real pigs. a report by the court of auditors concludes that the eu's climate spending of €100 billion over the period 2014-2020 has had a very small impact on emissions. the court of auditors' report says that the number of animals in agriculture must be reduced if we are to reduce emissions. we need to address the industrial approach to food production that is constantly focused on increasing the number of animals. the modest endorsement of climate and environmental measures is not enough when the measures have proved to be so ineffective. climate spending under the cap must be directly targeted at measures that actually reduce emissions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. will we be able to cope with the dramatic loss of biodiversity with this cap? it's not looking good. we're not going to have a proper succession plan. we will not have mandatory environmental measures for all farmers who receive european taxpayers' money. we have no target of reducing herbicides by 50 percent. today, agriculture is a big part of agriculture, and unfortunately, it's part of the climate problem. and will we change that with this cap? it's not looking good. we do not see any target for a 50% reduction in fertiliser use. we don't see any ambitious ground protection. we missed an opportunity to make agriculture part of the climate solution, and that's going to come back to bite us in the ass. and will we stop the sharp decline in farms, especially small and medium-sized ones, with this cap? that doesn't look good either. we have not succeeded in imposing a ceiling of 100 000 euro, thanks also to the lobbying of the conservative representatives of the agricultural sector, including coreper, who have clearly betrayed 95% of european farmers. there will continue to be millions of dollars in subsidies for oligarchs, for international financial investors and large landowners. i am afraid that we will not be able to do it that way, and i ask commissioner wojciechowski to use his announcement to send back national plans which do not take account of redistribution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are speaking for the last time on the new common agricultural policy. it's not a perfect measure for us conservatives either. we would have preferred less bureaucracy and more simplification, but we appreciate the increased budget of 22 billion, the support for young farmers, aid in the event of crisis, the attention to geographical indications and quality schemes. we particularly appreciate the balance between environmental protection and agriculture, which has been achieved despite the ideological pressure we have been subjected to. so to greta thunberg and to those who have bombarded us with e-mails full of insults, asking us to reject the cap, i say this: the quality of the environment is a fad for some, a fad for others, but for farmers it is a matter of life and death. a healthy environment is the necessary condition for healthy agricultural products, to be able to sell them on the market and to be able to feed one's own families, not a fad.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what can i say? this is a surreal discussion. we're here to talk about police brutality against roma. in order to feed your goodwill, you go so far as to attack the police, who often operate in difficult contexts, receiving violence, threats and insults. i am in solidarity with the men and women in uniform and i am tired of this absurd attempt to beatify the roma. let 's be clear . many roma communities have no intention of integrating and very often live in camps where lawlessness is a constant, between children who do not go to school and teenagers who are targeted for theft and fraud. in italy, in recent weeks, news reports have reported cases of numerous house occupations. consider the case of a group of women in rome who occupied the home of an 86-year-old man who had gone to the doctor. i wonder rather why europe is silent about the increasing violence that men and women in uniform are subjected to every day. in italy alone, police officers report one assault every three hours, for a total of nearly eight assaults a day. but you think about massively funding a false inclusion and non-existent integration of the roma. you have confirmed, for the umpteenth time, that you are far removed from the real needs of the citizens.
mr president, vice-president schinas, in an ageing europe with a shortage of labour in an increasing number of jobs, it is a great idea that this european parliament is going to approve a report on how to reaffirm, widen, improve and update the pathways for legal immigration into the european union with nine recommendations. the idea of the talent pool and talent partnerships to attract skilled labour is a good one, but there is more: the self-employed and entrepreneurs and their entry routes, including low-skilled workers in certain niches of employment, also need support, and it is therefore essential to update the single permit directive, the temporary workers directive and the long-term residence directive and to establish a european advisory service for legal migrants, but above all, the directive on sanctions against employers or employers who exploit vulnerable immigrants must therefore be sanctioned and strengthened. i think it is clear that regular migration - that is the message of this report from the european parliament - is part of the solution, not part of the problem: it is part of the future of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report parliament will finally be sending an important signal. a different approach to migration can be taken, a forward-looking approach that maximises the benefits of migration and not, as usual, the opposite. we are laying the foundations for safe and orderly management of migration, creating legal channels for those seeking work in the european union and thus removing people from the hands of traffickers and exploiters. but let us not limit ourselves to highly skilled workers. the pandemic has strongly demonstrated that foreign workers make a vital contribution to our economy in key sectors and that there is a very high demand for labour even in less skilled sectors. we are an ageing continent, which needs young people and which can grow not only economically but also socially thanks to labour migration. but let us remember that the rights of the individual must always be at the centre, and that they must be protected against all forms of exploitation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, bosnia is a difficult and complicated country with a history of suffering. bosnia also means bihac, that canton in the north of the country where thousands of migrants are clustered and living in inhumane conditions. do you know what the game is? the game is the route that human traffickers indicate to migrants to get to europe, and in particular to friuli venezia giulia, the region which i have the honour of representing in this parliament. can we just sit back and wait for the migration crisis on the balkan route to surprise us again, after the mediterranean front, after the blackmailing by erdoğan and lukashenko? i am sounding the alarm in front of you all today. commissioner, representatives of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is likely to explode and another migratory front could destabilise europe. we can't let that happen! the protection of the external borders of the european union, more resources for border police, the establishment of collection centres where it is possible to check who actually has the right to asylum, but above all, and president von der leyen said it again today, strict rules on returning all those who do not meet the necessary requirements. we are not turning friuli venezia giulia and north-east italy into the refugee camp of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the glasgow conference has produced, let us say, frankly disappointing results. let me be clear: the protection of the environment is a top priority, but the ecological challenge must be faced with pragmatism and seriousness, not with ideology. the green transition, as envisioned by the european commission, has costs that are often not considered. the european race towards climate neutrality, unaccompanied by the race of giants such as russia, china, india and partly also the united states, risks being a burden only for our continent. europe accounts for only 7% of global emissions. the european taxpayers, and in particular the poorer classes, are likely to be the only ones to pay the price for the wrong choices, as we have already seen in france with the high price of petrol. at the same time, the dramatic rise in energy prices is partly linked to certain green decisions. these meetings, where hundreds of leaders arrive by plane, are objectively in danger of being a showcase of hypocrisy and broken promises. let us not forget that china is already the leader in many of the commodity products of the future. i'm thinking about lithium in electric vehicle batteries, the semimetals that are critical for wind turbines and even solar panels. in short, our production risks being penalized by unsustainable constraints and becoming totally dependent on the chinese giant. the environment must be preserved at all costs, but we must have the foresight to calculate the social and economic consequences of the choices we make. the risk is that we will see further relocations and further redundancies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the environment is not and should not be the exclusive responsibility of the left. environmental protection can also be a very specific area within this parliament and it can really give us great opportunities. in glasgow, there was talk of climate change, but in the end reason and realism prevailed over ideology. the ecological transition, as the term itself suggests, must be a path, not a mere goal to be achieved at the expense of growth and development. my appeal is a call to responsibility. we must abandon the worship of greta thunberg and try to find an agreement on european positions and responsible environmentalism, which combines environmental protection with the right of companies to continue to exist, avoiding new constraints which would obviously lead to their closure. we must not allow thousands of jobs to be lost, especially at this very difficult time, by favouring ideologies to the detriment of businesses and even families, and by favouring, for example, the chinese economy which does not at least concretely raise the environmental question. finally, let us remember that we can still starve before we die of pollution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more could and should have been done at this climate conference in glasgow. today, the consequences of climate change are visible to everyone, including those in our own latitudes, and no one can deny that we are facing an emergency comparable to the pandemic we are already experiencing. we could have done more, but at the same time we must not forget the results achieved in glasgow, which many before me have already highlighted, such as the gradual phase-out of coal, albeit with non-binding commitments, and the objective of reducing deforestation and reducing methane emissions. these are achievements that were unimaginable even just two years ago, when trump was still in the white house and he had torn up the paris agreement, and china had not yet communicated its own date for achieving climate neutrality. europe, as it did in paris, played a leading role in glasgow in bringing the major global players who, more than others, have an impact on global pollution to the table. and he did it with the credibility of the first to put everything into the green deal, not just as an adaptation tool and a climate change tool, but as a driver for a decarbonized, circular economy that boosts employment and competitiveness. just as we are facing the biggest european investment plan since the end of the second world war, we must keep the ambition of the new 'fit for 55' package high and put the ecological transition at the heart of the economic recovery, to accelerate the construction of a new development model that is more environmentally sustainable and more socially equitable, in a word, safer for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i listened with great interest to all the speeches by my colleagues and i agree with them in principle. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this matter. if we can't get every country in the world involved, i mean everybody, no one excluded, starting with china and india, we've failed too. i would like to stress that this parliament must do more in this respect, we must make sure that all the other countries do exactly the same thing at the same time, otherwise it is useless. the world is like a bell, we're all inside it. otherwise we will also be giving, among other things, immense competitive advantages, which we will pay for in terms of unemployment. the last thing i say to greta is: good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good in the future, you'll be even better if you go to beijing and new delhi and give these speeches.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate allows me to be more explicit than usual. there are two ways to be an environmentalist. the first is that of conservatives like us, who set ourselves the goal of preserving what is beautiful and sacred that we have inherited from our parents so that we can pass it on to our children. and there is another category of environmentalists, the orphans of communism, who confuse the defense of the environment with the attack on capitalism, liberal economies and western democracies. i have a question for you, colleagues: where are the friday for future versus the chinese regime, the world's largest co2 emitter? where are the solidarity demonstrations for the fishermen and farmers ruined by mekong dams, for the uyghur prisoners in xinjiang or for the children in china's cobalt mines in congo? zero, no protest, not in glasgow, and certainly not in beijing! alain finkielkraut writes: "silence dies, noise takes over everywhere. it's the only ecological disaster that nobody talks about".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe was unprepared for the arrival of the pandemic. his initial response was neither quick nor effective. over time, attempts have been made to adjust the approach, but it is good that brussels has learned its lesson in order to prepare for the difficult months ahead and the possibility of future epidemics. we cannot afford to make mistakes, uncertainties or missteps on this front. when we talk about vaccines, we think about covid-19, a new disease for which new therapeutic solutions are constantly being offered that we hope will soon provide a lasting solution to the epidemic. when this is identified, we hope that industry will be able to make it available on a global scale, in a short time, considering that we live in an interconnected world where our health is not just dependent on that of our neighbour. if we look at the epidemic problems from a global perspective, there are other urgent vaccination campaigns. i think of the malaria vaccine, recently approved by the world health organization, which would help fight a disease that caused more than 360,000 deaths globally in 2019. malaria vaccination would be the means to eradicate the disease without causing the environmental damage generated by previous attempts, based on the use of pesticides. vaccination has the advantage of combining therapeutic simplicity, economic efficiency and the possibility of treating a large number of people in a short time. but this should not make us forget that we are in a race against disease, from which we cannot and must not retreat. in this way we will show the world our best side in terms of international cooperation. let us make our present effort useful for the salvation of future generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question today should not be how to vaccinate the world, but why we should do it. we all call experimental mrna or dna gene therapies that don't immunise "vaccines", because those who receive them can get covid-19 and spread it, and they only partially reduce the likelihood of severe disease for a few months. on the other hand, thousands of adverse reactions, including very serious and disabling ones, and continuous deaths after inoculation are recorded every day as a result of administration, the causal correlation of which with the injected products has already been established in many cases. the precautionary principle is therefore being neglected. we also allow for very serious discrimination, deprivation and violence against those who do not accept inoculation for medical, immunological or personal reasons, in violation of fundamental human rights. now do we want to commit more money from european citizens to extend this treatment to the whole world? who are you? in the name of god, colleagues, let's stop this madness!
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, let us get straight to the point: who pollutes and why we have to shed tears and blood to pay for electricity and gas. let us think for a moment about the smallest of realities, the small craft sector, the small and mediumsized enterprises. today the spot price of electricity in italy is close to 300 eur per kwh, but do we think that people have to go and steal to pay their electricity and gas bills or to fill their car? this report on the state of the energy union, on 30 pages, devotes half of it, and i said half, to the problem of prices! we need answers, not talk! the perfect storm has been unleashed while some, unfortunately also in this house, continue to wage war on gas. long live renewables, welcome wind and solar, but they are sources that are not programmable, are not and will not be. to do business, you need programming, you need programming, and without a little bit of backup of fossil fuels, today, the economy is going to collapse. now let's go see who's polluting. over 91% of global emissions come from outside europe, but here we continue to pay for the polluters too. why should europeans be more stubborn? and what will you tell the newly unemployed? creating unemployment and trying to compensate for it with public spending is insane. secondly, there is little in this report about climate diplomacy. without china's cooperation, we cannot solve this problem and we will be called upon to a bloodbath. it is not about being proud of being the best in class on climate, it is about realizing that political decisions on the price of emissions are then passed on to the end consumer, and while philosophy is being made here, people and businesses can no longer pay.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of course, we are starting today with a good excuse: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. i would venture to say a non-issue, given that the slovenian government, led by president jansa, has not only appointed the delegated prosecutors, but has also unblocked the funding necessary for the activities of the country's main news agency, as you have requested. you should ask the prime minister what and how many difficulties a government faces in solving historical problems, left as a dowry by an old regime. but that's not your concern. you prefer to use yet another instrumental polemic, which is such both for the timing and the methods used by its creators, whose only interest is to destabilize the government of a member state. we have recently been on a mission to ljubljana and we can confirm that slovenia is not a dictatorship or an illiberal democracy, but a sovereign state where public institutions function properly - so says the libe committee - with reforms on the way, and which has a political line, which you do not like. but slovenia has every right to express its views on its future and the future of europe, where all voices must be heard equally, if it is true that dialogue is the basis of democracy. we regret that you will not be able to impose on us a single idea of what our europe should be. we are not witnessing the continuing transformation of europe into a technocratic cooperation. we want democratic cooperation based on respect for traditions, diversity and cultures, and above all on respect for individual nations, the beating heart of democratic traditions. we are defending slovenia today as a sovereign member state, in order to defend our idea of europe.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rare diseases affect 30 million of the european population. medical skills and knowledge are not up to par. health care provision is inadequate and investment in research is limited. we even think that the last general policy of the european union on these diseases was in 2009. these indications would be sufficient to encourage, as soon as possible, a european plan against rare diseases, to protect all those patients who are orphans of national health systems, which too often fail to guarantee them accurate diagnosis and adequate treatment. it is essential that the new plan is structured on the basis of coordination with the new european strategy for long-term health care, which is planned for the second half of 2022. the key words are inclusion and accessibility, but they lose their meaning if there is no strong shared strategy based on real involvement of patients, who can and should contribute to this process in the best way. they are the first to know the real needs and shortcomings of the present. and we must not forget the indispensable role of patient carers, the caregivers, who are all too often not protected or legally recognized. in short, the focus should be on patients and not on patients, and all those funds to support the fight against rare diseases should not be directed only to institutions and structures, but should support processes to help the autonomy of people with rare diseases and disabilities. the attention is high, but more concreteness is needed. today the goal is still far away.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a rare disease has only one disadvantage in terms of visibility, namely that it affects only 5 people in 10,000 in the european union. that doesn't make it any less painful, it just makes it less statistically relevant. since the time of hippocrates, treating the sick has been a priority, and the history of our continent has seen hundreds of men and women who have devoted their lives to the study and development of medicine. in europe we have always been at the forefront of medical and pharmaceutical research, but we have not done enough. we have some world-recognized excellence and we have always supported research, as the development of vaccines to deal with covid-19 has shown, but it's not enough yet. what's missing is funding, and we can't wait for a pandemic to remind us of that. there are families whose lives depend on our decisions, and that's why we have to do everything in our power to help them. this means creating information networks that improve diagnosis and address the problem of orphan drugs. we must invest even more resources and give practical help to the testing of new treatments and new medicines, to protect to the maximum the right to life of our citizens and to ensure their integration into society, because a life is not just a number and pain is not something to be weighed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the european court of auditors for the work it has done. in these difficult years, marked by the covid-19 pandemic, the european institutions have been called upon to do an exceptional job, with a bold and unprecedented programme of recovery. but one question remains unanswered: how much has been spent by the european commission on vaccines and now on anti-covid pills? as the independent external auditor of the european union, will the court of auditors be able to tell us what price the eu has paid to the big pharmaceutical companies for vaccines? it's a top-secret thing, apparently, tied to contractual clauses. the european institutions should give priority to transparency towards citizens. how do we know that the power of the drug companies has not affected the contracts that have been signed, especially in a difficult time like the pandemic? if we want the confidence of the citizens, we must work with the utmost transparency.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we women are the engine of change, we are the ones who keep society going, who keep the family going, and very often we find ourselves having to divide work and care for the most fragile. unfortunately, if we look at the latest official eurostat data on femicide in europe, in 2019, four women were killed every day, one woman every six hours, and one in three women has experienced at least one physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. we can only imagine how these numbers have gotten worse with the pandemic, with complaints spiking during the lockdown phases. in my country, italy, alone, since the beginning of 2021, we have had 57 femicide victims. so we have a duty to report any attack on a woman whether it's physical, psychological, financial or online. above all, we must not forget the violence that is least talked about. i am thinking, for example, of the drama of the rented uterus, on which we have not been able to take a clear position in this parliament. the violence is based on the exploitation of myriads of women, forced to sell their bodies for hunger, becoming mere instruments to satisfy the selfishness of those who want to buy a child. this is the new slavery of the third millennium! ladies and gentlemen, on this international day for the elimination of violence against women, let us not confine ourselves to the often fleeting words, but let us all make a serious commitment together to act promptly on the real needs of european women. women can really be the engine of a new start. i want to end today by remembering the words of oriana fallaci: "being a woman is fascinating. it's an adventure that takes such courage, a challenge that never gets boring".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's event invites us to reflect on a phenomenon which is not only a public and social emergency but one of the most shameful violations of human rights. we come to this symbolic day with a tragic balance: in italy alone, in 2021, one femicide is reported every three days. but anyone who thinks women are the weaker sex is mistaken. living a life as a woman requires much more strength and determination than a man and often having to resist injustice, oppression, abuse and abuse. in a democratic society there can and must be no room for any form of violence against women, but this is achieved by a revolution in terms of community awareness and certainly cannot do without european and national support. the istanbul convention is the most comprehensive international human rights treaty to prevent and combat violence against women, and while all member states have signed the convention, challenges remain with regard to its ratification. urgent action is therefore needed to put an end to misinterpretations of the istanbul convention and to put the protection of fundamental rights, gender equality, security and justice at the heart of the european political agenda, so that we can say today: "we're not leaving you alone, we're here!"
in writing. the figures for violence against women in europe are still alarming today. it is estimated that 33% of women in europe are victims of physical or sexual violence. unfortunately, violence against women is perpetrated by those closest to them, such as fathers or partners. the covid-19 pandemic has only exacerbated this situation, with femicide spikes during the months of lockdown. we must ensure support for women victims of violence and for families who have lost a woman to femicide: psychological help, prompt and fair financial compensation, severe punishment for those who have committed the crime. the justice system needs to provide quick and definite answers to those who have lost a mother or a daughter. it is unacceptable that there are still huge differences in europe between the various national schemes for compensating victims of crime. it is our duty to ensure that victims of crime and their families are brought to justice quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against cyberviolence is a battle of civilisations in which we all find ourselves. i myself, in italy, denounced revenge porn chat rooms and promoted a national initiative to raise awareness among women on the topic of web safety. what we cannot share is the will of the progressive majority in this house to use the gender-based violence dossier to advance its political agenda, by re-proposing the contents of the dl zan, which was rejected by the italian parliament, at european level and by calling to order 15 countries that are not welcome in brussels, that is to say most of the member states, because they do not include the definition of gender identity in their legislation. well, what does all this have to do with the desperation of the 51 percent of revenge porn victims who are suicidal? the european parliament must think of these girls and women. we are not afraid to agree on several aspects of this dossier, in particular the need for transnational leadership against cyber violence. but only if we abandon an ideological approach and adopt a pragmatic and shared vision will we be able to achieve the goals we all strive for.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how long and complex the negotiation process has been, but unfortunately i can only say that i am half satisfied. firstly, i am not convinced that raising the thresholds for determining which companies fall within the definition of gatekeepers was a good move. the commission's proposal was stricter and would allow targeted control on a wider range of platforms, thus providing greater protection for consumers, especially in the face of a future digital market that is expanding rapidly. just think of the business these companies are doing and the growth they're seeing. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. the obligations have indeed been tightened up and i find the text in this respect to be a marked improvement on the proposal. the problem, i repeat, is that they will be applied to fewer farms than planned. another aspect which i find unconvincing is the establishment of the high-level group of digital regulators. on paper, it looks like a winning and fascinating proposition. the truth is that its recommendations are not binding, the commission retains full discretion on the application of the regulation and the member states and the experience gained over the years has little left, apart from cooperation. i would therefore have preferred a genuine and greater involvement of the member states and their competent authorities with a more decisive role. it is essential, in my view, to strengthen the exchange of information between the commission and the member states. but we still have room to make this text future-proof, and i hope it will be. merry christmas to you all.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 september last president von der leyen announced in this house the proposal to proclaim 2022 the european year of youth. the aim would be to intensify the efforts of the union, the member states and local authorities to help young people improve their social situation by reducing barriers to access to employment and promoting the mutual recognition of diplomas. a good initiative, but one that is destined to remain so unless there is a real political will to give continuity to the project well beyond 2022. moreover, special attention should be paid to young people with disabilities, who have suffered the most from the negative effects of the pandemic and who have seen the most discrimination and socioeconomic inclusion in these difficult years. the goal of social inclusion requires dedication and consistency over time, with real and concrete actions. the italian government itself, thanks to matteo salvini, has for the first time set up a specific ministry for disabled people, headed by mrs erika stefani. in italy six million women and men, children, the elderly and their families have been forgotten for too long, but thanks to this ministry it will not happen again. the union must therefore pay similar attention. that's what i'm asking all of you today, disability awareness cannot and should not be limited in time and therefore cannot and should not be celebrated in a single year. disability has no time limits. it is the task of this europe not to put limits on these things. merry christmas to you all.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has had a devastating impact, especially on children and adolescents. the lockdown, forced closure of schools and suspension of educational services for vulnerable youth have multiplied their discomfort beyond measure. the effects will unfortunately be felt at all levels, from psychophysical well-being to the risk of having serious problems in learning and relational skills. for these reasons, we must work to ensure the success of 2022, the european year of youth, as an act owed to the future of our children. we must ensure that they are the real protagonists from the outset, especially in defining the priorities to be achieved. for this initiative to be truly inclusive, it will not be enough to speak for young people, but we will have to speak with young people. so, dear young people, do not be spectators, but actors in the history you are living today. get your hands dirty, bite your waist, don't adapt, don't give up on your goals, take on the shoulders of those who can't. you are not the future, you are our present.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, covid has been a disastrous year for the younger generations. we are thinking of distance learning, the lack of social involvement that students have had in particular this year. it is a long-term policy aimed at developing the concept of youth in the years to come. the erasmus programme is also helping to train young people not only to leave but also to return, to bring back experiences gained abroad, and perhaps to populate those countries which are too often depopulated, especially in the marginal and mountainous areas of our territories. but if the european year of youth becomes another act of propaganda like the failed conference on the future of europe, which has been engaging us for months without producing any results, well, no, that is not good for us, that is not good for us because we want a future for young people and not propaganda.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sham elections of 7 november tell us that we are going ahead with sandinista, we are going ahead with ortega, we are going ahead with a regime which undermines the democratic process by ostracizing the opposition, and perhaps this is a first point in common with this parliament. we shall vote for a balanced resolution, yes, on some points, but unbalanced and unbalanced on others. for example, in these resolutions there are always references to lgbt people, but sometimes it would be better to remember the truly vulnerable, starting with the disabled or the poorest. my group will table an amendment to bring to the fore the odious story of the terrorist alessio casimirri who, in 1978, as part of a red brigade commando, assassinated the then president of christian democracy and former president of the italian council, aldo moro, together with five of his men. it was 1978, and for 43 years in italy we have been waiting for justice to be done. in a more equitable world, casimirri would be serving a life sentence, but in the real world, unfortunately, he's sitting quietly in a restaurant in managua cooking shrimp and squid. colleagues, we're counting on you. merry christmas to you all.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we share the concern about what is happening between ukraine and russia and we must all do our utmost to prevent any escalation that could lead to an armed conflict, a threat that for the moment only appears to be such but which, if it unfortunately came to fruition, would have dramatic consequences for a europe already sorely tried by the pandemic. but if we broaden our view a little on the international chessboard, we cannot pretend that there is not a stone guest in this whole situation, which no one has mentioned. it is particularly worrying that turkish president erdoğan has offered to mediate in the dispute between ukraine and russia. what is the european position on this issue, mr high representative? but more importantly, when are we gonna get out of this embarrassment? i say embarrassed because we are in a situation where it seems that the facts are still being ignored. we are not going to ignore the fact that turkey is buying anti-missile systems from russia, even though it is a member of nato. do we want to continue to ignore the fact that turkey is selling drones to ukraine? we are not going to continue to pretend that turkey's behaviour is not aimed at preventing conflict but only at consolidating its geopolitical hegemony over the entire eastern and southern border of europe, from ukraine right through to libya. we want to continue to submit to the blackmail of migrants carried out by the turkish regime, which we have also seen find emulators as happened on the polish-belarusian border only a few weeks ago? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if european foreign policy is to finally make a move and stop being at the mercy of events, then, in addition to announcing the usual sanctions, it must start taking serious decisions and stop financing the turkish dictator. let us stop telling ourselves the story that the billions of euros europe gives turkey are for minorities and to promote a democratization process, when we know full well that it is only money of european citizens that is used by erdoğan to consolidate his geopolitical power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, conflicts, environmental disasters, food insecurity, climate change are just some of the causes of at least 238 million people in need of humanitarian assistance today. 238 million of them. the european union is the world's largest donor, but our action can and must be improved to be even more effective, as mr neuser rightly said. we need less fragmented aid, a coordination mechanism and a solid financial allocation, and we need to look at the most vulnerable groups, starting with women and children, because we cannot afford to leave anyone behind. especially today, with the pandemic going on. as the european union, we have an even greater duty, first and foremost a moral one: to help developing countries provide an adequate health response, both by addressing the root causes of poverty and inequality, but also through more concrete and massive support in the immediate future for adequate vaccine supplies. the international community, on all these points, i believe does not have a clear conscience.
mr president, the nutrition world summit held in japan last week was a crucial moment to discuss the future of food and nutrition at a global level. we all know nowadays how important nutrition is, but also how present is the malnutrition issue. for this reason we, as the eu, must commit on a three-strategy focus: health, food and resilience. 149 million children under five are stunted, 49 million are under weight, but another 40 million suffer obesity. the eu must stand as leader for nutrition in all terms – know-how, sustainable and healthy consumption of resources, promotion of european diets such as the mediterranean one – the italian one – as good practices, and also an efficient programme directed at those areas where children don’t have access to food. we have an ambitious goal now. no more children dead. no more disease by malnutrition. no more waste of food. in 2021 it’s time to act, and not to talk anymore.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe and the world, this is not a global resurgence of covid, but the simple transition of sars-cov-2 from the pandemic phase to the endemic phase. so the virus is becoming less and less aggressive. the omicron variant has not caused any deaths to date and produces only very mild symptoms. if policy followed science, this would be the time to remove all restrictions, focusing on treating those with symptoms to allow all citizens to be immunized naturally, ending the covid era. today, however, scientific knowledge acquired over more than a century is being denied and used for political purposes of control and undemocratic domination, as well as for personal profit. citizens are held hostage to perverse logic which tramples on human rights and the principles on which the european union is founded. this parliament has so far been using public money to increase the budgets of multinationals, following the arguments of scientists close to governments. there are the people of europe out there crying out for freedom and equality. how long, colleagues, will you pretend not to hear?
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize if i do not call you chair, as the guidelines for inclusive language would like, but i would be uncomfortable with the italian translation of chair instead of chairman. as i hope you will not be offended, commissioner schinas, if i wish you a merry christmas instead of seasonal greetings, which mean nothing but are on the screens of all the computers in the european parliament. this debate is an opportunity, because the words we use in here define who we are, where we come from and where we're going. to defend the use of the word 'christmas' or the masculine and feminine gender pronouns, or to place a small crib in the office is to defend the culture of europe. we are different peoples, but we are united by the same christian roots, enriched by the experiences and thoughts that have crossed our continent over the last two thousand years. that root determines our beliefs about the secularity of the state, about respect for the religions of others, about what is right or wrong, even about what is good or bad. it is the so-called european way of life, which you and we should be promoting, but which for some people is an obstacle to progress. not for us conservatives. to us, a tree without roots is just a piece of wood.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dante alighieri, alessandro manzoni and the great men of italian literature would probably laugh at the guidelines on inclusive language which have been rightly withdrawn. in italian there are many words of the feminine gender that indicate universal concepts: freedom, reason, faith, humanity. even as a form of respect, you call yourself you. only fascism tried to change the you with the you. usually those who want to change, to impose a certain language on the people are regimes. but what is more serious in those guidelines which have been withdrawn is that, under the pretext of combating inequality, christmas, joseph and mary, our traditions are targeted. europe must stop making a fool of itself in the eyes of the world by denying itself. the whole world has taken its cue and its example from european civilization, which has its history and its roots in judeo-christianity. there must be no shame in identity. those who do not respect their own culture will not respect that of others. and if i'm not being too politically incorrect, i'd like to end by wishing everyone a merry christmas.
in writing. the guidelines presented by commissioner dalli in the 'union of equality' document represent yet another lack of respect for millions of european citizens. in the name of inclusiveness, the european commission even deletes the term "christmas", urging european citizens to adopt a language that is "non-discriminatory". but the fact that we are trying to include it is likely to have the opposite effect. christendom, or europe, is not just the title of novalis's 1799 essay, but a phrase that perfectly sums up our origins. the european union is rooted in judeo-christian traditions and values, and its flag is inspired by the icon of the virgin mary. to deny all this would be to deny your own identity. in my view, a government or institution which imposes its own way of speaking on its citizens cannot at the same time call itself democratic. finally, i believe that issues such as this risk greatly diminishing the very low level of public confidence in the european union, especially in the present context, with far more important challenges to be faced.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, honourable members, the recovery and resilience facility is at the heart of the eu response to the coronavirus virus crisis. it will play a central role in mitigating the economic and social impact of the pandemic and delivering a more sustainable and resilient european union, better prepared for the challenges and opportunities of the green and digital transition. beyond its economic impact, the facility is a strong sign of european unity and ambition. the unprecedented solidarity shown through the rrf requires everyone to use its funds responsibly and efficiently. the facility also offers a unique opportunity to enhance investment coordination across the eu, and joint coordinated action at european level is more effective and benefits member states more than uncoordinated individual national efforts, not least due to a significant spillover effect across countries. the rrf, embedded in the european semester of economic and employment policy coordination, will also become a key tool to implement the policy reform agenda in the years ahead. the reforms included in the national recovery and resilience plan will be instrumental in effectively addressing the country-specific recommendations identified in the context of the european semester. hence, national parliaments will play a key role in the timely adoption of the legislative reforms to allow the full implementation of the plans. a successful rrf requires not only the effective use of its funds, but also a sound and credible financial structure. i very much welcome the fact that the commission has already raised over eur 70 billion of next generation eu funds, and that it has attracted great interest among international investors. we have come a long way since the adoption of the facility in february. all member states, but one, have submitted their rrps. the commission has assessed 22 plans and the council has acted swiftly on the related commission proposals and adopted all 22 plans, with the tight timeline set out in the regulation. the rrf has featured on the agendas of all the ecofin councils during this presidency and three extraordinary informal council meetings. they were also there to accelerate the adoption of the process. the council stands ready to examine, without delay, the proposals that the commission will make for the pending rrps and to ensure that they all meet the requirements for a positive assessment. overall, the plans approved by the council so far represent eur 291 billion in non-repayable financing and eur 154 billion in loans. member states have allocated almost 40% of spending in their plans to climate measures and more than 26% to the digital transition, exceeding the agreed targets of 37% and 20% respectively. the adoption of the council implementing decisions has allowed the disbursement since august 2021 of more than eur 50 billion in pre—financing to 18 member states, boosting recovery efforts across the union. with the approval of the recovery and resilience plans and the first funds distributed to member states, the focus now crucially turns to the implementation phase. throughout this phase, checking and monitoring will be vital if the rrf, as a whole, is to be a lasting success. member states have started to submit their payment requests for the implementation of their plans. each request will require verification that the relevant milestones and targets are properly met. we, as the co-legislators, have no formal role in the assessment of these requests, which are carried out by the commission in compliance with the regulation. for its part, the council will continue to monitor the implementation of the facility and, as appropriate, provide political impetus and guidance to unroll its full potential. as i said, the implementation of the recovery and resilience plans will be a key element of the economic surveillance and policy coordination in the context of the european semester. the council remains committed to continuing its close engagement with all interested parties at every step of the way to make the rrf a success.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is a pleasure to be back in this house. i would like to update you on where we stand on economic recovery and in particular on the recovery and resilience facility (rrf). we are well on track and looking forward to next year as a year of implementation. we are now emerging from the crisis and the recovery and resilience facility will help us to prepare also for the future. to date, the council has adopted implementing decisions for 22 national recovery and resilience plans. the financing is starting to flow. the commission is still assessing plans from four countries: bulgaria, hungary, poland and sweden. on bulgaria, we are making good progress. for sweden, the next steps will depend on the orientations that the new government will take. discussions continue with both hungary and poland. our aim is to arrive at a positive assessment in due course, once the conditions and criteria set out in the rrf regulation are met. the netherlands has not yet presented a plan. we are continuing to work constructively with the dutch authorities, which have indicated that they expect the plan to be submitted in spring 2022. on pre-financing: so far, we have provided eur 54.2 billion to 18 member states. the last disbursement was to romania and we expect to make disbursements to estonia and malta shortly. earlier today we launched the online scoreboard for tracking progress on the facility overall and each recovery and resilience plan, together with specific reporting on social expenditure. we are advancing with operational arrangements, which will detail further technical conditions for monitoring the implementation. last month, the commission signed arrangements with the first two member states: spain and france. both have submitted their first payment requests. for france, the payment request is under evaluation. for spain, the commission has approved its request for eur 10 billion in grants. before any disbursement, however, the economic and financial committee must give its opinion. we expect the next requests to be submitted early next year and will thoroughly assess each one in full respect of the rrf regulation. parliament will continue to receive all due information as required. i am confident that parliament will be an important ally throughout the implementation phase. we also understand that parliament will prepare its own review report on the rrf, which should feed into the commission’s review report due in july 2022. we very much welcome this step. thank you, and commissioner gentiloni will now have further points to add.
member of the commission. – madam president, as valdis dombrovskis has just said, we have 22 plans adopted by the council, and in these plans we see a well-balanced representation of the six pillars. the total estimated cost of the 22 plans amounts to eur 450 billion. let me give you a first survey of the measures put forward by member states in their plans, measures that, of course, can contribute to more than one of the pillars with their primary and secondary assignment, so the total adds up to more than 100%. the first results: 50% of measures will support the green transition; 29% will support the digital transition; 50% will support smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; 43% will support social and territorial cohesion; 17% health, economic and social resilience; and 11% of measures will support policies for the next generation, including education and skills. all this data will be available in the scoreboard that has been launched today. now, as we have received the first payment requests, i would like to assure you that the commission remains committed to being thorough and acting as quickly as possible. for spain, we will now await the economic and financial committee opinion and then proceed with the first disbursement. we are committed to making the process as transparent as possible. we have published the operational arrangements signed with spain and france, and we will encourage each member state to agree to this publication. we will also publish our preliminary assessment of the milestones and targets to ensure that the broader public can follow how the facility continues to deliver at eu level and in their own country. exactly for this reason, the recovery and resilience scoreboard has been launched today. not all data is available yet, so the information provided on the scoreboard will continue to grow in the coming months. for example, we are still waiting for the first input by member states on the agreed common indicators, which will be available in spring 2022. the support from the facility can reach the entire society in the union, and this is strongly needed now, when we are still fighting the pandemic but with the recovery underway. visibility will be crucial for the success. we will step up our efforts to communicate the role and the impact of next generation eu. together, the parliament and the commission, we can make the difference. together, we can fulfill this extraordinary mission for the next generation of europeans.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioners, minister, welcome to the european parliament. almost exactly one year ago in december 2020, we managed to agree between the european parliament, the council and the commission on the largest package of economic support ever created by the european union: the recovery and resilience facility. much was achieved in this one year, since, with 22 plans already approved by the commission and the council, and with the countries having received their pre-financing, we are now moving from the assessment to the implementation phase. the scope is clear – recovery and resilience. we have to use the funds to help people, enterprises and regions affected by the virus in the process of recovery, but resilience is also important. we have to use the money to strengthen our public systems, healthcare, education, the economy, the public systems and the private sector, so that if ever in the future such a crisis hits us, we will not be hit in the same way. we are going to spend more money than ever. this is why control is important. the european public prosecutor, the european court of auditors and the european anti-fraud office need to have a strong role. we made sure that there are clear rules at european level, but that there is also flexibility. countries can use the money where they need it, but one thing cannot be negotiated, and that is values and that is the rule of law. if money flows, european values should be respected. furthermore, the money should also be used to reform; it should not be seen only as a source of investment. investments and reforms go hand in hand. i expect the commission to observe the implementation of all the country-specific recommendations, and some are very important. fiscal sustainability is essential. it is very important because we could only create this recovery and resilience facility now because our member states are still credible enough in the eyes of the financial markets so that the guarantee that we gave to the commission enabled the commission to access funds. we need to ensure fiscal sustainability again in the future. we, as parliament, are going to monitor the work of the commission and the implementation of this plan.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the recovery plan is implemented. as has been said here, most national plans have been submitted and most national programmes approved so far. prefinancing arrived in the summer and now it is time to sign the operating agreements and, above all, to present the first reports with the milestones and objectives achieved. at the moment, only spain has done so, but i really hope that the other countries will speed up and submit them as soon as possible, because that will mean that the whole preparation phase will have been completed and we will be fully involved in implementation. and for that, 2022 is going to be key. and it's also going to be key because we're going to have a lot of data to be able to make an assessment of the plan. in february they will also have to submit their annual report and, among other things, they will have to evaluate and quantify the expenditure that has been made for each of the six pillars and social expenditure, with a relative breakdown in the field of children and youth. you know that my group has been very critical of the selection of social and gender indicators, and we want it to be improved. we want to be rigorous, we need to have the best tools and, moreover, if we want to be rigorous - and this is my last sentence - we must respect the rule of law. without respect for the rule of law, there can be no financing of the recovery plan or the european budgets.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, table 2 on page 7 of the 'recovery and resilience dialogue with the european commission' forecasts the growth of gdp per country due to ngeu from 0.4/0.7% until 2026 for germany and austria and to 1.5/2.5% for italy until 2026 and for spain until 2024. this means that in the best case scenario, the growth generated is estimated at an average of 0.14% per annum for the former countries and 0.52% for the latter. on the basis of these considerations, it follows that the type of investments rigidly schematised in the ngeu agenda will produce a low multiplier, considerably lower than that produced by the respective deficit expenditure. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to ngeu in the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. therefore, only after having estimated the multipliers of these consolidation measures could we be able to predict with more reasonable certainty whether and to what extent ngeu will lead to positive net growth, pending a rapid and constructive review of the entire economic governance of the union.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the recovery and resilience fund is an important positive step and it must succeed. this money must be put to good use, not in the pockets of a few powerful people. that's why we need strong transparency and oversight institutions to ensure that plans are implemented, that management is honest, and that there is a strong social agenda, because the pandemic has also greatly increased social and regional inequalities. in the european parliament we have set up a powerful committee which exercises the necessary controls to ensure that the money is not going to the pockets of a few corrupt oligarchs, political and economic oligarchs. and this control must be extended to all countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am sorry that what has been done in the european parliament, in my country greece, has not yet been done, because the government is refusing to do so. this money does not belong to the parties, it does not belong to the governments. they belong to the peoples of europe and they must go where we have planned.
madam president, please. what the european commission says about the delay in approving the hungarian recovery and resilience plan is a blatant lie. contrary to the false allegations, there is no question of a professional dispute between the commission and the hungarian government which would delay the signing of the agreement. the commission and the hungarian government have reached a complete agreement on all the details of the hungarian plan months ago. the agreement was reached and the president of the commission was due to visit budapest to sign it. following the agreement on the hungarian plan, political hysteria over the child protection act began, and the ideological and political attacks on the child protection act have led the commission to pull the brakes and abuse its power to blackmail hungary by withholding recovery funds. so what the european commission is saying is a complete lie, what it is doing is outright blackmail, outright political banditry.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, recovery and resilience plans must serve to modernise economies, to make them more sustainable and resilient, to make the economies of the member states more productive so that we can achieve greater competitiveness and, at the same time, greater territorial, economic and social cohesion. but to modernize economies, we need real reforms. it is not enough to change the name of a decree-law, it is not enough to pretend. in addition, transparency is also needed so that this mechanism can be repeated in the future if necessary. and for that we need to know where the money is going, and for that we need to know what projects are being approved, their location, their amounts, the final beneficiaries. i hope, commissioners, that the european commission will set up an online platform where projects are listed in a way that is accessible to the public, the amounts of these projects that are approved, their type, and the final beneficiaries. it is a way of having monitoring and also of strengthening transparency. this is european citizens' money, and european citizens should also be involved and should also look at where their taxes fall on projects that help the european union, help our economy and overcome the global challenges we all face.
madam president, we are really at a crucial stage in the recovery and resilience facility as we are moving from the planning to the implementation. and this is an unprecedented challenge, which will have important consequences for the future. first, a successful implementation will mark another leap forward in the integration process of the european union, and will show even to the most sceptical ones, what it means a united and strong europe. second, the national plans will help not only to support the recovery, but also to accelerate the green transition, the digital transition and the competitiveness of our union. and third, let’s not forget that it will help us building a better and fair europe. commissioner gentiloni, yesterday in the rrf dialogue, reminded us and today as well that of all the plans that have been approved, eur 127 billion are dedicated to social policies. this is a huge chunk of the financial envelope, and it’s crucial to improve the lives of the european citizens, to build the kind of europe – closer to the citizens – that we are here for.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery and resilience facility represents a unique opportunity for states to boost their economies and make a breakthrough in the environment, but the funds must be used to the best of their ability. we cannot allow criminal organizations and business committees to take them over and use them for their own enrichment. the european institutions must be involved, but above all the member states. a common effort is needed to achieve homogeneity in prevention and response. i therefore believe it is essential to provide adequate resources to both olaf and the new european public prosecutor's office, so as to ensure controls and investigations to avoid fraud, fictitious splitting of contracts and waste of resources. i also welcome important initiatives such as the nextgenerationeu law enforcement forum promoted by europol and the italian crime centre, headed by director vittorio rizzi. a forum to which many member states have already joined with the aim of monitoring the use of the funds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, border controls and the maintenance of law and order are not violations of human rights. it is good to say this and at the same time to reiterate that illegal immigration is a crime and not a right. all too often, however, the commission and the left push forward policies with a propaganda which, frankly, is pathetic and which favours illegal migration, the profits of which end up in the pockets of human trafficking criminals. europe, both on the border with belarus and on the italian coast, should send a message of seriousness and rigour in defence of the borders of the sovereignty of states and against illegal immigration. he should follow the example of matteo salvini, who blocked the landings and for this he received insults, threats and absurd trials. but all too often you have launched slogans about welcome, slogans which have only fuelled the false hopes of immigrants and tragedies, as often happens to migrants trying to cross the sea. the blackmail of dictators by means of immigrants can no longer be tolerated. at the same time, no more ideology on immigration, you are not doing a favour to immigrants or to european citizens.
mr president, mr vice-president schinas, ladies and gentlemen, i have seen with my own eyes the desperation of these people trapped like animals on the border with belarus. a few weeks ago my colleagues, mr benifei and mr majorino, and i were there. we have also seen the violence of the polish authorities. i expected words of condemnation against member states which reject, abuse and deny the rights of these people. instead, only words of unconditional support for these states which, faced with the belarusian threat, are deplorably using people as instruments of their political game. the activation of article 78.3 and measures which further harm defenceless people put at risk access to international protection and reveal our weaknesses and our fear of migrants and asylum seekers. the commission must have the courage to take a genuine stand as the defender of the treaties in favour of solidarity. act in defense of the bill of rights that is constantly trampled on today. act in the interest of the people, dear president, the people, not the enemy. they're not enemies, they're people, the enemies are others.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020 the european parliament received over 1 500 petitions, a number that is clearly higher than in previous years. the covid-19 pandemic has contributed to this increase: the committee examined 209 petitions concerning hospitalization. this is certainly a sign that there is concern on the part of european citizens about public health, at a difficult historical period such as we have lived through and unfortunately are still living through. another issue dealt with by the committee on petitions concerns disability. many disabled citizens turn to the european parliament to ask for more protection, especially in the field of employment. it is our duty to listen to all the requests that are made to us and to give immediate answers to all the problems. we must therefore make sure that petitions are easily accessible to all european citizens. merry christmas to you all.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, memorial was founded and began to thrive in the waning days of the soviet union. they have valiantly followed their founding spirit with their anti—stalinist work until this day. all these years, they have been upholding the values that we all hold dear. in 2009, the european parliament honoured them by bestowing upon them the prize that carries the name of their co—founder, sakharov. now, vladimir putin, a late admirer and disciple of stalin, wants to close down memorial – to ‘liquidate’ memorial, as they say. even his language gives testimony to what he represents. we today express our unbreakable solidarity with memorial. the torch with which the courageous people of memorial have carried over 30 years will be carried on. memorial represents the dignity and europeanness of russia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been debating russia, president putin, and his methods of suppressing human rights, freedom of speech and democracy virtually every day this week. memorial is a legend among human rights organizations, and the putin regime has long sought to eliminate it. this organization is inconvenient for putin and probably dangerous. it maps past and present political crimes committed against the people of russia and other nations. he's not a foreign agent. it's not an extremist organization. memorial is helping foreign researchers search for clues in the archives. for the last five years since 2016 memorial has also had a czech branch. the memorial has also helped to map the fate of some of the more than a thousand czechs who were executed in the former soviet union. fortunately, the russian prosecutor's office cannot threaten the czech branch, but our challenge comes at a time when the russian prosecutor's office is once again taking action against memorial in russia. the european union and the member states should impose and support sanctions against all russian officials who unlawfully impede the work and very existence of memorial and similar organisations. member states should do their utmost to preserve valuable historical archives, memories and support the memorial branches in their territories. thank you to everyone who supported this challenge.
madam president, the attempts to intimidate, silence and, ultimately, close memorial are not only an example of how far putin is prepared to go, they are an insult to the russian people, to their history. we have a problem with the putin kleptocrat autocracy, not with the russian people. if we let them down, those who fight for the values we hold sacred, we also allow the undermining of these same values. what do sakharov and memorial teach us? we are reminded of soviet-era intimidation, oppression and atrocities, and we get confronted with the inspiration they still provide to us today. arguably, the most important instrument we have is to raise our voice and keep telling their stories, the stories of the countless killed in russia and abroad, those prosecuted and imprisoned, people who simply stood up for their rights, for the environment, for political freedoms or stood as an opposition candidate. let me share with you a lesser—known contemporary story to pay tribute to all of them. on 15 july 2021, andrei borovikov was convicted to 27 months in prison by the appeals court of arkhangelsk. allegedly, he spread pornography by sharing a generally available music clip on his profile on the russian alternative to facebook. this, of course, was one of these commonly fabricated charges to be able to convict him. who was borovikov? who is borovikov? he was allied as a local coordinator to aleksei navalny. he has a wife and a newborn son. he’s now detained a thousand kilometres from his home, on purpose, moved there after being convicted to make it very difficult for his family to visit him – to break him. keep telling their stories, past and present.
mr. president, the attempt to shut down russia's most respected human rights organization, memorial, is also an attempt to deny the memory of the russian nation. in many cases, the fsb is assisted by the so-called economic and social committee of experts. it is this pseudoscientific body that has drafted the statement calling for the closure of memorial. the same quasi-scientific body also acted as an expert in the so-called sandarmoh case, when the head of the republic of karelia memorial, yuri dmitriev, was sentenced to a severe prison sentence on trumped-up charges. he had found and brought out victims of stalin's persecution from under the pine forests of karelia. the third case is from the kuolan peninsula. agnes haikara, a descendant of finnish immigrants, wrote a book about the tragic fate of norwegian and finnish immigrants during stalin's persecution. a year ago, the fsb confiscated the book based on the opinion of this pseudo-scientific committee. today the european parliament is calling for sanctions to be imposed on those who have been involved in the closure of memorial. ladies and gentlemen, the committee of economic and social experts is a suitable target for sanctions.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! i'm one of those - and there aren't that many of us in this room - who remember the sakharov prize being awarded to the sakharov memorial twelve years ago. we remember the visit of mrs. alexeyeva, mr. kowaliev, this other face of russia, and also their sometimes bitter words directed at the west. but i think what's happening now with memorial is a regression, because this organization could have been functioning a couple of years ago, it could have been functioning a few years ago. she was marginalized, she was pushed, the repression that we have today was not there then. i think that also shows maybe the fear of the russian power elite, but it's also a signal of the need for our solidarity.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! history is not only the perfect teacher of life, but also the effective conscience of nations. the attempt to destroy the memorial is nothing more than an attempt to silence the conscience, which reminds the russian authorities of the crimes of the communist system. the soviet union was a barbaric state built on terror, forced labor and mass deportations. they affected many ethnic and social groups who did not want to accept soviet slavery. however, the first victims of the loggers and the shippers were the russians themselves. it was for them that the memorial was created, to show the truth about communism to those who would never have heard about it in school or in the media. you can't build a partnership with russia, where the authorities are still proud of the evil that the soviet union did to the eastern bloc countries. the memorial has been defending the right to the truth since 1989. we're supposed to be protecting the memorial.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have said this many times in this house and i think it is right to say it again: vladimir putin's biggest problem is the strength of a free, informed, active civil society. its real enemy is democracy in all its forms and expressions, inside or outside russia's borders. now putin's targets include the international memorial society, not only a symbolic organization for russian civil society, but also a concrete reference point in the struggle for human rights and the active defense of human rights. the demands for the dissolution of memorial are clearly insane and driven by the need to silence a free and uncomfortable voice. the very law on foreign agents, incidentally, which memorial is accused of violating, is an attack on freedom of association, expression and participation. and today we stand here with memorial and all of russia's free and democratic civil society. they deserve our solidarity, our support, because only a free civil society can open up a different perspective. and in conclusion, let me say again from here that we cannot all speak about the damage caused by putin in the same way. we have his friends in this chamber, who have played with putin over the years precisely to attack our common home. i think we should not forget that.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, "i got a call from cuba at 3 a.m. last night, they're repressing my family. i have a cousin who's like a sister to me. she was laid off in august. she's a radiologist. the gang of the committees for the defense of the revolution of the federation of cuban women committed acts of violence, threw a stone at her house, harassed and threatened her. they had to move into the family home of the husband who had covid. he was denied medical treatment and died. now they're even getting death threats. they ran away and called me to tell me that if anything happened to him, i had to tell them what happened. she fears for her safety. all because i denounce the dictatorship and they are very bad with women. how long, my god? "this message was sent to me by a citizen who lives in italy and is worried about her family. the author of all this is the communism which many in this chamber know well, either because they have experienced it or because it represents for many an uncomfortable past, a toxic love affair, difficult to recognize and justify, dotted with firing squads, torture, abuse and ill-treatment. communism, fuelled by hatred and contempt, invaded and slaughtered europe in the last century and continues to repress and suffocate, including through the so-called battalions of order, the cuban people today. to call the communist regime the republic of cuba is a contradiction in terms. a republic presupposes free elections, whereas since 1959 fake elections have been held in cuba, in which no other parties are allowed, as in the last elections held in 2018, in which all 605 elected deputies obviously belonged to the communist party of cuba. cuba is protesting against hunger and food shortages while the people are thirsty for freedom of elections and rights. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to turn a blind eye to the biggest demonstration on the island since 1994. justice be done, all the instruments at our disposal be used, including the human rights clause which allows the partnership and cooperation agreement to be suspended, increasing international pressure on the ruthless and bloodthirsty regime. long live the free cuba!
in the name of the id group. mr president, thank you commissioner valean for being here, thank you also to my colleagues for being here on a subject which is very sensitive and important, despite the fact that the committee on the internal market did not have the courage to leave the direct expression of why we are here today in the text we have approved, we had to remove the references to the brenner and austrian measures. i have many austrian friends, i have a historical ally for my party in my political group, but the european commission has to intervene here, all the elements are there. i would add that the italian government is also a little too timid and should be a little more protective of its businesses, because, as commissioner valean rightly said, there is a question of proportionality and non-discrimination in the measures that have to be put in place. we have an alternative infrastructure project which is not yet many years away from being completed, but we cannot afford to penalize trade between italy and germany and not only that, other countries are involved, among productive realities which are not only destination markets, but which are also integrated markets, because together they make the added value of producing in europe positive. the problem is that if we do not find a solution because of the timidity of the italian government or because of the inaction of the european commission, the court of justice will, as it has done in the past, tell you that these measures are illegal and i would therefore advise the commission to initiate an infringement procedure, which seems to me more than legitimate. austria will give its reasons and we shall see. that is why it seems to me quite hypocritical to see a european commission which is very active, for example, on the bolkestein with regard to italy and yet is helpless in an even more serious situation such as the one we are discussing today.
