madam president, first of all, we of course express our solidarity with aleksei navalny and his family. obviously we are demanding freedom for navalny and we are demanding sanctions to punish those who did it. if putin were not afraid of navalny and of the russian people’s demand for change, navalny would stay free. this is a manifestation of putin following in the footsteps of dictator lukashenko. putin shares with lukashenko the same fear of real elections. lukashenko was stealing elections from the belarusian people by jailing potential candidates viktar babaryka, and sergey tikhanovski. putin is doing the same by arresting aleksei navalny. lukashenko has finished the year 2020 with a single question, addressed globally and domestically, namely when and how he will be ousted from power. putin is starting to move in the same direction, which may have the same outcome at the end of this year. putin in some ways is a delayed lukashenko. the people of belarus have clearly shown that the majority of them are for change. the russian people are not different and that is why navalny was arrested. what we saw during those days is an additional reason to repeat what we said last year in september: the eu needs to launch a thorough reassessment of its relations with russia and to consider that the pursuit of democracy should be the centrepiece of this new eu strategy towards the russian federation. democracy is possible in ukraine, it is possible in belarus, and it is also possible in russia. we are standing together with the russian people.
madam president, putin is afraid as never before. he is less afraid of what we say here, but is very afraid of his own people. people of belarus and khabarovsk have shown courage and both european dictators are afraid. therefore, brave people in russia need our support messages, but even more – actions! that is why today the eu has to choose: with whom are we? the dictator putin, asking for dialogues with him, or the alternative, the russian people led by navalny? certainly we are with the people. it’s time to think not about dialogue but about putin’s containment strategy. it must be comprehensive, including the suspension of nord stream 2. let’s stop financing novichok! today, i have more hope to see a different russia in my lifetime. it may be a long way, but in 1985 i did not imagine that the ussr would collapse so quickly and that i’d speak here, and we need to be prepared.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the authors of the reports we are discussing today on their well-conceived and balanced reports. i agree that no eu country can solve global challenges on its own, and that a well-coordinated common foreign and security policy of the european union is of paramount importance. the multilateral world model continued to strengthen in 2020, with the influence of traditional global power centers weakening and competing global and regional powers strengthening. the covid pandemic has only exacerbated these trends. the european union must be made an attractive and desirable partner for the rest of the world. but we will only achieve this by having a clear set of values and adhering to them - we will be a reliable partner, able to represent our interests and human rights when needed, not just through diplomatic means. so far, as the military conflicts in nagorno-karabakh, syria, and the authoritarian regime in belarus have shown, this is just ambition... i agree that the eu must pursue strategic autonomy to pursue an effective common foreign and security policy on its own, but this must be combined with continued and improved cooperation with our partners in nato, the united nations and other transnational fora. however, real strategic autonomy in foreign and security policy will only be possible if it is based on real financial commitments.
madam president, globally, last year was an important year from a democracy point of view. from one side we have seen that democracy was spreading in the eastern part of the european continent. from minsk to chabarovsk, people started to demand change. the authoritarian regimes of lukashenko and putin are afraid of free elections. that is why babaryka, tikhanovskaya, kalesnikava and now navalny were arrested, and some of them poisoned. from another side, we have also witnessed how people of hong kong defended their democracy tradition against the brutality of the authoritarian beijing regime. we are living through a time when authoritarian regimes are testing democracies. are they able to defend the people’s right for democracy? and that is why for us during this year, the biggest task will be to stand up and to defend democracy on the european continent and globally. and this is why tomorrow we shall celebrate not only the inauguration of the new us president joe biden, but also the return of the us to global democracy, defence and promotion. i call on all of us on the european side during this year to join the fight for the future of democracy.
madam president, the report recalls the ambition of the eu to be a global actor for peace and security. i agree. how to achieve that? europe is more than the eu. until europe becomes a continent of democracies, nations will suffer from dictators who poison and shoot people on the streets. europe needs democracies in the western balkans and in the eastern neighbourhood. we see that people no longer support kremlin-controlled regimes. belarus and moldova want transparent and democratic government. ukraine and georgia have decided even earlier. finally, the eu must show its strategic ambition and, together with the new us administration, become an important factor in the eastern neighbourhood. ‘do not be afraid’, pope john paul ii told the poles. we must not be afraid either. the best strategy for our own security is to contain brutal regimes and give a european perspective for our neighbours.
on behalf of the s&d group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has the means and leverage to pursue its development, economic, scientific cooperation and other policies with regard to its external partners. however, there is still a high incidence of insufficient coordination between these different measures. i therefore welcome the report on closer links and eu-asia relations that we are discussing today. in the future, the enhanced relations strategy should become a comprehensive and coordinated strategy for different areas of cooperation. the report under discussion today sets out clearer guidelines for the european union's cooperation with our partners in asia. equally important, it can serve as a model for the european union's cooperation with other regions of the world. this should be a win-win cooperation based on mutual respect, promoting a sustainable fiscal, economic, social and environmental link. equally important is the transfer of best practice and standards. i strongly believe that greater eu involvement, the transfer of best practice and higher standards, for example in central asian countries, can have a rapid, positive and visible impact. the need for infrastructure investment in eurasia is huge. it would therefore be best in the future for the eu's closer links and china's 'belt and road' initiatives not to compete but to complement each other. i believe that the eu-asia connectivity strategy, by promoting high standards and sustainability requirements, can also have a positive impact on china's belt and road initiative. i agree that the eu should link its ten-t rail network to the asian road network, but it is equally important to provide the necessary funding and to complete its ten-t projects, such as rail baltica.
madam president, besides congratulating the new us president, today is also a good occasion to reflect on recent events and how fragile our democracy is. it should become a common inspiration, on both sides of the atlantic, to become much more serious about challenges towards democracy. our democracy on the european continent is also suffering from different diseases. globally, democratic values are being attacked by autocrats in belarus, russia and china. democratic values are also being attacked by an internal ‘cancer of democracy’, by the slow erosion of democracy, and by populism. joe biden has promised to organise a global democracy summit. it’s a great idea. let’s prepare ourselves for that big event. why not have an eu conference on the future of democracy next to the conference on the future of europe? the defence and promotion of democracy should become our common most important strategic agenda.
madam president, putin’s regime gave us a lesson and we should be grateful for that. it is evident that eu policy towards russia should go through a deep strategic revision. i have prepared a list of ten major points for review of the strategy, with immediate, medium-term and longer-term actions. first point, no more illusions about putin’s regime. putin will not be different, but russia can become different. second, the eu has to impose immediate sanctions on those from the regime who are responsible for the navalny case. third, the eu immediately has to stop the nord stream 2 project. fourth, the eu has to move in relations with russia from the ‘putin first’ to the ‘democracy first’ paradigm. fifth, the eu should put the defence of democracy at the same priority level as the fight against climate change. sixth, the eu needs to agree with the new us administration that the global defence of democracy should be top priority. seventh, before the russian duma elections, introduction of new type of preventive sanctions against stealing and bribing elections. eighth, the launch of justice hubs for the people of belarus and russia on the territory of eu countries. ninth, much larger-scale eu investments into the success of eastern partnership countries, which can inspire russian people. and tenth, the eu needs to have a strategic vision of its future relations with democratic russia, which could also inspire russian people. based on these ten points, the eu can change its policy on russia. eu policy change will help russia to change itself.
dear prime minister, dear colleagues, the visit to russia last week by the high representative of the european union, mr josep borrell, has raised many doubts. it is clear that the kremlin's aggressive policies are no longer satisfying russian citizens - as evidenced by the mass protests, and navalny's poisoning and imprisonment for almost 3 years is a clear violation of international law and an example of political confrontation. we see with our own eyes how the kremlin continues to try to diminish and eliminate any resistance or opposition. the kremlin took advantage of the european union and our image when they asked the german, swedish and polish diplomats to leave russia during their visit. you, high representative josep borrelli, had to call for the release of alexei navalny at the joint press conference, and also to respond to the statements of the russian foreign minister on the annexation of crimea and other issues on which we have expressed a strong position in the european parliament. unfortunately, we have not heard a stronger position from the european union. we are now demanding tough and precise sanctions against the kremlin regime and we are calling on the european member states that are currently turning a blind eye to the kremlin's aggression to respond to what is happening at the eu's borders.
madam president, even before the visit to moscow, it was clear that the kremlin would mock. however, today i think the visit was needed. why? after black friday in moscow a different understanding must come in the eu. putin will not change. russia will change, but not putin. first of all, we need to stop thinking of russia as putin’s russia. we need to think about the people in russia. putin is the biggest threat to the russian people. putin is the world’s largest russophobe because he is afraid of russians. the change in eu policy must aim for changes in russia. after decades of dreaming of a europe from lisbon to vladivostok, we must realise that such a europe is impossible if we build it with the kremlin regime. a democratic europe from lisbon to vladivostok, without lukashenko, without putin – is a dream i support. mr borrell, in order to help russians it is not necessary to travel to meet putin. we need to sit down at the same table with our partners in washington dc and make a common plan for democracy. it includes a putin containment strategy. not assistance. if we do not learn from the bitter lessons of mr borrell, our fight against disinformation and interference will be a fight against windmills, and our citizens will no longer respect this union of democracies.
madam president, it’s an important day for our friends in ukraine, who were fighting and dying for european choice, euromaidan, seven years ago. since then ukraine has managed to achieve a lot, despite the fact that the kremlin war against ukraine is still going on. i fully support the report which we are discussing today. of course there are shortcomings in the ukraine reforms, which the report is pointing out. but i would urge to see both sides in our relations with ukraine. there are problems in ukraine, but also there are problems inside of eu policy towards ukraine and eastern partnership countries. back in 2014 ukrainians made a geopolitical choice to go for democracy, for european integration. it changed not only ukraine, it is making big influence on the changes which started to happen in belarus and russia. and those changes demand from us, from the eu, to have much more ambitious policy towards eastern partnership countries, and especially towards ukraine. the association language of quotas, standards, etc., is important but it is not enough for a geopolitical commission. we need to come back to the language of ambitions and big dreams. seven years ago ukrainians fought for the dream to join the european family. let’s have a big dream on our side also: to have ukraine in our family at some time. and let’s speak our dream loudly and work together to make it reality. let’s offer a clear road map to the fulfilment of our common dream. (the speaker concludes the speech in a non-official language)
madam president, i will speak about the kremlin’s hybrid war against ukraine and whether we should condemn ukraine if it fights against this information. ukraine is a state at war. hostile propaganda against ukraine is an integral part of the kremlin war. kremlin-backed media is not media as we understand, it is a weapon to destroy human brains. it is kremlin’s weapon just like any other weapon that kills ukrainian troops in eastern ukraine. we must have full information about how the kremlin is operating inside ukraine. it is a hybrid war that employs all means, buying politicians, even parties, shadow money for disinformation and a network of spies. in the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation (inge committee), we examine external influences and political processes in the eu. in ukraine, outside influence is like a landfill in which the kremlin operates on a daily basis. before condemning, one must first understand and help.
we welcome, in particular, the achievements of ukraine, especially given the extremely difficult conditions under which they were achieved. while ukraine is still under-reforming due to the pace of reforms and institutional challenges, and the independence and territorial integrity of the country with internationally recognised borders are still under threat from russia's continued illegal annexation of crimea and occupation of the donetsk and luhansk regions, ukraine is successfully leveraging its unique experience and expertise in participating in common security and defence policy missions. we should also congratulate ukraine on its new enhanced nato partner status. the position of the ukrainian government to prevent the import of electricity from power plants that are built in violation of international requirements and the highest environmental and safety standards is also welcome. i believe that ukraine will continue to maintain its european orientation and continue its progress in reforms, gradual integration into the european union market and respect for democratic principles. glory to ukraine!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like, first of all, to thank madam commissioner for the precise information, and also i would like to thank all of you for this discussion, which is so important for us in lithuania. this is really an important sign of our solidarity. the ostrovets nuclear power plant has been built by the lukashenko regime and the rosatom company just 40 kilometres from the centre of vilnius. that is why the ostrovets nuclear power plant is a clear and present threat to our national security. we are not a big country. in the event of an accident, we shall not have anywhere to run and hide. i am not against nuclear power in general, but since last year, all of us know very well who mr lukashenko is, and it’s easy to understand that transparency, international standards, independence of the regulator, is not for this regime, as the last elections very clearly have shown. somebody can say that even next to brussels or antwerp there is a nuclear power plant, but i would like to ask you: would you like to have lukashenko build the rosatom power plant 30 kilometres from your house or from this european parliament building? you should know that the espoo convention committee recognised that the site for the ostrovets power plant was selected in violation of the espoo convention. you should also know that during construction, there were numerous big accidents; and you should know that european stress tests have shown that there are clear shortcomings in the safety of the technology used and those recommendations have still not been implemented according to the information we have up to now. you should also know that this is a geopolitical kremlin project in order to keep us dependent on russian electricity supplies and also in synchronisation with the old soviet grid system. that is why we are fighting against this project. that is why democratic belarus, led by sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, is also against this project, and that is why we decided to prohibit imports of electricity from this plant, which will make the whole project economically unviable. and that is why we are simply asking for your solidarity. let’s get rid of this monster.
on behalf of the s&d group madam president, the astravy npp has started producing electricity, despite the still unresolved safety problems. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, i want to emphasize that we are not against nuclear energy. safely operated nuclear power plants can provide us with clean and efficient energy. however, the problem with the power plant in astrakhan is that it started generating electricity in a hurry, without ensuring an adequate level of safety. we must therefore now ensure that commercial electricity production in astrava does not start until the recommendations of the european nuclear safety regulators group have been fully implemented. the commission is required to work with the belarusian authorities to ensure that all security requirements are met. it is not possible to distinguish between more and less important requirements and to give them priority. all security measures are important. the cars that drive on our roads don't have enough brakes. we also require that they wear seat belts, airbags and other safety technology. this power plant is just 25 miles [40 km] from where i am speaking today. before the pandemic, every week on the flight to brussels, i would see its towers. poland, latvia and estonia are also in the danger zone. we must therefore also ensure that the unsafe electricity produced in astrava does not reach the european union's networks. we cannot allow our money to fund activities that put us at risk.
mr president, dear colleagues, our brothers and sisters in ukraine and crimea, i am speaking on behalf of all of us. i am speaking to all of you and asking you to commemorate a very sad event in the recent history of the european continent. seven years ago exactly, at the beginning of march, the kremlin authorities were finalising the occupation of crimea. they occupied this beautiful part of ukraine simply because the people of ukraine had decided to move closer to the european union. that was how the most brutal international crime on the european continent after the second world war was committed. we europeans, neighbours and friends of ukraine, were only able to observe this crime with sincere pain. since then, the european parliament, on every occasion, has been very clear in its non-recognition of the crimean occupation policy. the european parliament is also very clear in its solidarity with the indigenous tatar and ukrainian people, who are suffering from the very hard conditions of the occupying regime. permanent human rights violations and political persecutions are what many of the crimean people are living through. let me stress that i am absolutely sure, despite our political or regional differences, that the european parliament will stay strong in its non-recognition policy and its solidarity with the people who are suffering because of the occupation. our solidarity was very clear when, two years ago, the sakharov prize was awarded to one of the victims of the crimean occupation, the famous filmmaker oleg sentsov. i can remind the kremlin authorities that the western non-recognition policy is a very powerful instrument. for 50 years, from 1940 until 1990, lithuania and other baltic states were occupied by the soviet union. for all that time the us and western europe did not recognise our occupation and, because of that permanent policy, we regained our freedom in the end. the same will happen with the occupation of crimea. we shall never recognise this occupation. we shall keep our solidarity with the crimean people and the people of ukraine and, in the end, crimea will become free again. slava ukraini!
madam president, really i will not try to start from a serious statement that my speech about the crisis in georgia is so important that this was the reason why somebody was attempting to prevent my statement. well, we’ve overcome this crisis and i hope that we shall be able to overcome also the political crisis in georgia. i will start with very simple words. let me say that all of us, we love georgia and georgian people. and that is why it is so difficult to see georgia in this deep and long lasting political crisis. because this is a crisis of democracy. maturity of democracy means transparency of elections, rule of law and non-politicisation of justice, real adherence to democracy values and fair parliamentary processes. as a co-chairman of the euronest parliamentary assembly, one year ago i sincerely congratulated ruling party and opposition on march 8 agreements, and hoped that georgian democracy will come back to normality. unfortunately, one year later georgia is in an even worse situation than before. i am not going to take part in the popular georgian political game of blaming one another, i simply would urge both sides to start to behave as real europeans, who are striving to join a european and transatlantic community of democracies. i would like to take the opportunity to praise the job, recently done by charles michel. i hope that our friends in georgia do understand that this is the highest level of eu involvement into management of their crisis. and i would urge our friends in georgia not to waste this opportunity.
mr president, today i have more questions about georgia than answers. until now, it was clear that georgia was the leader of reforms in the eastern partnership region. but today, our close partner has gotten into a political responsibility crisis. i have always had doubts about the commitment of the de facto leader of the ruling georgian dream party to pursue euro-atlantic integration. but today, i do not see anybody on either side of the political spectrum willing and ready to take responsibility for the future of the country. charles michel offered a helping hand from the eu. if nobody in georgia accepts it, our common failure will be celebrated by one country only, the one that already holds the occupied georgian territories. dear friends in georgia, nobody from outside can be more georgian than georgians themselves. i wish you courage to take political responsibility for a european democratic sakartvelas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important to align agricultural, rural and food policy with the new green agenda, which must not only neutralise the eu's impact on climate but also ensure the well-being of our citizens and achieve greater environmental, economic and social sustainability. however, all these objectives require effective and efficient policy implementation in rural areas themselves, which is not possible without adequate investment. unfortunately, farmers in different european countries continue to receive different pay for the same work. in lithuania and the other baltic countries, farmers who work to the same high standards of climate and environment, food safety and quality and animal welfare are still receiving direct payments well below the european union average. any new vision for rural areas should not be based on inequality. i therefore urge the commission, in developing a new vision for rural areas, to equalise direct payments to all eu farmers and to ensure that the countryside is an attractive place for young farmers to set up, develop small and medium-sized enterprises and engage in farming on a level playing field across the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, it is really a privilege for me to speak after the commissioner since everything is explained. i was one of the shadow rapporteurs on eit so it is very clear how important eit is in eu innovation ecosystems. first of all, of course, eit has a responsibility to strengthen innovation excellence on an eu level. but such a country like lithuania, from where i am, has a very strong interest in developing its own innovation capacity up to the best eu level. that is why i welcome the successful outcome of the trilogue, where we agreed on different important things, but i am especially happy that we agreed on a higher budget for regional innovation schemes (ris). the regional innovation schemes budget for the next 2021-2027 period is set to be in the range of 10 to 15% of the total eit budget. the use of ris budget is made mandatory; also, here will be a possibility to use synergies with regional smart specialisation strategies. and most important, knowledge and innovation communities (kics) are encouraged to enlarge their presence into ris territories through the creation of local ris hubs. innovation hubs, from my point of view, are the most important elements of the national innovation architecture. i hope that eit will bring a lot of added value into the creation of those national innovation hubs. that is how eit will help to create excellence centres of innovation in all eu member states, including lithuania.
madam president, the kremlin’s aggressive behaviour, and sometimes simply terrorist behaviour, both externally and internally, are real threats to the security of the european union, and to the whole european continent. that is the kremlin policy which is directed also against the future of russia. ordinary russian people are those who are suffering the biggest damage, when the future of a normal, democratic country is stolen from them by the kremlin’s policy. ‘push back, contain and engage with democratic russia’: that should be the formula of our actions. besides what is said in a good resolution, i would add what else we need to do. first, let’s take care about the security of our eastern partnership neighbours, especially ukraine. let’s offer them what some experts are calling eu security partnerships or security compacts. second, let’s give the trio of eastern partnership countries, including ukraine, a clearer path for their integration, maybe offering them what in romano prodi’s formula was called ‘everything but institutions’. integration of the trio would bring growth and stability of democracies and set a good example for the people of russia. and third, let’s work together with us administration on the development of a common democracy defence toolbox, with clear sanctions on violations of human rights, on attempts to steal elections, on laundering of ‘dirty money’. we need to defend the right of the russian people to democracy. democracy is possible in russia, as it is possible in ukraine, or in belarus. russia deserves a better future. and we can help the russian people to get it.
madam president, as a medical doctor, i must remind you that, first of all, we have to start with the right diagnosis. our own experience has already demonstrated very clearly: we are at war. we are in a low-intensity war that russia is waging against democracies. the kremlin believes that such war and chaos weakens democracies. putin wants us to be afraid. in 2008, some nato members got scared and refused to offer a membership action plan (map) to georgia and ukraine. this was a mistake. putin saw this as a sign of weakness and attacked georgia and ukraine. when democracies are afraid, dictators advance. now putin is not afraid to act even within the territories of eu and nato member states. but when the diagnosis is clear, so is the treatment. the first step against putin’s aggressive kremlin is not to be afraid. some eu capitals are afraid that, by taking action, they will provoke putin, but the reverse is true. a security vacuum at the eastern border of the eu and our fear provoke putin. alexei navalny, brave ukrainians and belarusians are an example to us. let’s not be afraid to take the courageous containment decisions that are needed to stop putin’s warmongering regime.
mr president, almost two years ago more than 500 of us voted in favour of a resolution on the importance of european remembrance for the future of europe. the resolution called to establish 25 may as the international day of heroes of the fight against totalitarianism. on that day in 1948, auschwitz hero witold pilecki was executed by the soviet authorities in occupied poland. he has been a symbol of resistance against both totalitarian regimes ever since. on that same day in 1948, liberated europe had already gathered at the congress of europe to lay the foundations for the eu. commemorating those who resisted both totalitarian regimes is a step forward towards one memory and one strong europe with a common understanding: never again! i thank you for the platform and would like to encourage the addition of the international day of heroes to our official days of commemoration in europe.
madam president, there are four points which i want to raise in my intervention. first, why did lukashenko decide that he could go for state terrorism action with the hijacking of a ryanair flight? because he decided that he would stay unpunished in the same way that he is still not punished for his crimes against the belarusian people. on sanctions, the news is that next week the eu will approve sanctions only on seven persons and one entity. it’s really not enough. there is a need for justice now, not when the regime collapses. an international conference on the belarusian crisis should be initiated immediately with one of the goals to establish an international tribunal for lukashenko’s crimes. second, putin remains the sole supporter of lukashenko, and that is the only reason why lukashenko is able to continue with his crimes. in return, putin wants to finalise the creeping annexation of belarus. the west must loudly indicate that it is prepared to impose the strongest sanctions on russia if the kremlin refuses quickly to retract its support for the criminal lukashenko regime and if the kremlin does not abandon its plans to realise an illegal annexation of belarus. third, on 16 june, a meeting of presidents joe biden and vladimir putin is a good opportunity to relay a unified message from the west to putin’s regime: hands off belarus or face sanctions! fourth, after reviewing all the european union institutions in my mind, i cannot find anybody who could be described as a leader who takes 24/7 responsibility to solve the belarus crisis, and the same can be said about the eu member states. we need to resolve this leadership problem.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, when i visited lithuanian soldiers, the women of afghanistan impressed me the most. you are right to give special mention to women. i am sure that the future of this country will depend on them. one of the most important indicators of where this country will move in the post-war period is the position of women in afghan society. the number of girls attending schools has increased from zero in 2001 to 3 million in 2021. the total number of children attending schools has increased from 0.9 million to 8 million today. the eu must continue to play an important role in the country’s reconstruction. the projects launched must be continued, and afghanistan must be given a prominent place in the new european global instrument. peace agreements are still very fragile. the surrounding states will try to strengthen their influence. but afghan women, i know, look at us with hope. we should help them become fully fledged owners of their country.
the rapporteur. madam president, we are concluding the process of considering the neighbourhood development and international cooperation instrument, which has been in the works for several years, and 'global europe' will soon be able to start. i believe that the european union will have a strong consolidated instrument for implementing its global policies outside the european union. one of the most important achievements is the inclusion of the european development fund (edf) in the general budget of the european union. this long-standing commitment will help to avoid duplication and improve coordination. the merger of the other formerly separate instruments has the same objective. this process took two terms. it was not clear whether the instrument would be adopted at all. we even discussed the possibility of a plan b when we first met here. not all the decisions taken by the european parliament at first reading were acceptable to the other institutions. but it did - today we have an instrument with a different name for its budget, by the way, the global europe instrument, with a budget of almost 80 billion euros. the european union is the largest donor of aid to developing countries and its neighbours, but the end result is not always in the european union's favour. it has to compete with the money offered by autocratic regimes, which spread corruption and threaten the security of countries, the development of democracy. we hope that this instrument will be much more effective and that the european union will achieve more. parliament will be more involved through parliamentary scrutiny, delegated acts and geopolitical dialogue with the commission. in addition, geopolitical dialogue was proposed at the last meetings of the trilogue. i want to highlight one part of the instrument. for the first time, nuclear safety is included in the conditions of the aid. that was the position of parliament, the position of the previous parliament, and we have succeeded in defending it. following the incident in belarusian airspace, it should be clear to everyone that nuclear power plants in the hands of repressive regimes can easily become tools of blackmail and that this should be taken into account in the allocation of assistance. after months of hard work, i would like to thank my colleagues for their solidarity and our teams for their high level of competence. i would like to thank commissioner urpilainen for being here. we would probably not have achieved the result in the marathon of fractures and trilogues without the german leadership during the presidency of this country. the real leaders were the chairmen of both committees, david mcallister and tom tobé. and, of course, the more experienced colleagues, thank you very much. for me, as a first-term president, it was a huge first-term challenge. i hope that this baby that was born will live, will grow up and be a true instrument of a truly global europe.
madam president, the g7 is an important summit of global biggest democracies. globally for the time being democracy as a value is challenged by autocracies and by internal erosion. the g7 summit is a good opportunity for the eu to put democracy on the same level of global priorities as climate change. since here will be not only g7, but also the eu-us summit, and at the end the biden-putin summit, so g7 will be a proper opportunity to agree on much more clear western policy towards russia, which became the biggest challenge towards democracy on the european continent. the g7 will be a good opportunity to agree on clear common messages to president putin, with the hope that president biden will deliver those messages directly to president putin. the message of g7 towards president putin should be very simple and clear: hands off belarus! hands off ukraine! and hands off navalny and democracy activists in russia itself! president putin needs to get a clear message that the price for him and for russia will increase very heavily if he tries to continue his policy of external and internal aggressive war against democracy and if he continues his support to the lukashenko autocracy. that is what people in russia, ukraine and belarus are expecting from g7. we can win the battle against climate change, but also we cannot lose the battle for the global future of democracy, because that would be a global disaster.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, 80 years ago, my 9-year-old mother, with her family, was deported to siberia. her father and her little brother never came back. my mother’s dream today is that the memory of her father and millions of other gulag victims will one day be honoured by eu leaders together with a future president of a free russia. future is the main idea of this debate today. we have also drafted a comprehensive resolution on this. while i am thankful for the debate time, i express my regret that other groups did not support the epp-proposed resolution by including it in the agenda of this session. i hope we will unite efforts and find time for the resolution in the next plenaries. crimes of communism – deportations and gulags – are part of the history of the whole eu. they must be evaluated and told to everyone from the european continent, in the south, north and east. unevaluated and forgotten crimes give birth to today’s totalitarianism. next to the eu border, we see a 21st-century stalinist regime. two dictators in the east of europe are like two in one. they use history to divide the eu, to justify their regimes, to hold their people hostage. the consequences of the ribbentrop–molotov pact still exist on the molotov side. we are responsible for our history so that we can learn from it. the crimes of communism have never received a moral or legal evaluation by the international community. entire gulag system and mass deportations, ordered, planned and executed by the soviet communist regime must be recognised as crimes against humanity.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, today in the european parliament we are commemorating the 80th anniversary of the 14 june exile. it's a sad day, and it's been painted red by so many people, with pain and loss. the entire families of innocent people, the entire tribes, were exiled to the depths of soviet russia. the tremts had to endure brutal trials, the treatment of the destitute, cruel nkvd. the number of people who suffered from soviet state terror is enormous - in just a few days in 1941, the soviets from the baltic states put up with over 200,000 people. my parents, who had been exiled in 1948, were not allowed to return to lithuania until after stalin's death. in all, more than six million people were killed in the soviet crackdown. we must remember this terrible experience of history, we must talk about it, and we must make sure that the younger generation knows the untouched side of history. it is very worrying that the current russian regime is increasingly covering up the crimes of stalin and other architects of the red terror, history is being used again for propaganda purposes, and scientists are not allowed to study historical archives. i believe that we - the european parliament, the european commission - can and should do more to investigate, evaluate and document this historical experience. dedicated research programmes, exhibitions at the house of european history, official condemnation of the gulag system would be a good start to deepen europeans' understanding of this stage in european history, so that it never happens again, so that we can build a happier future for europe.
author. – madam president, as all of us know, the kremlin recently declared 34 foreign ngos, including three german ones, ‘undesirable’. navalny’s anti—corruption foundation was declared extremist. the fight against corruption in russia is now equal to extremism and terrorism. mikhail khodorkovsky’s open russia organisation was also declared an extremist organisation and disbanded. those who are connected with those organisations are facing arrest, like mr pivovarov, the former leader of open russia, or are at least prohibited from participation in the forthcoming duma elections. thousands of potential alternative candidates will face such a fate. if you look at the last 12—month period, this is the fifth resolution which we are adopting on developments in russia. we can draw a very clear conclusion. the human rights situation in russia is deteriorating very rapidly. we need not have any illusions that things will improve under putin’s authority. unfortunately, president putin is following lukashenko’s methods in his attempts to fight against people’s demands for change. president putin is trying to achieve two goals, which are important for his regime’s survival. first, the kremlin is building a new wall, the kremlin wall, between the russian people who want change and a global world, which is enjoying democracy and permanent change. second, it is absolutely clear that president putin will not repeat lukashenko’s so—called mistake. there will be no alternative candidates in the duma elections, only those approved by kremlin. that is where we are with the developments in russia and what the resolution is about. as a member of the european parliament and a neighbour of russia, i am frustrated by my own feelings. first, a feeling of impotence, as for the time being we cannot stop the kremlin’s aggressive war against its own russian people. second, i am afraid of my own feeling that we are becoming accustomed to new kremlin regime crimes against the russian people. the last one is a feeling of historical optimism. russia can become a democracy, as ukraine became one. the darkest night is before sunrise in the morning, but morning is always coming.
madam president, really it is an opportunity to praise the eu institutions, the commission and council and the eeas on a successful initiative to introduce the magnitsky act in the european union. i will try to make some very practical remarks about our steps forward. first of all, the preventive effect of magnitsky sanctions should be strengthened: the same type of crimes should lead to the automatic initiation of the same type of sanctions against all the similar perpetrators. second, the preparation of sanction lists should be made in a more centralised way by the eu institutions and should depend less on national states. third, decisions on sanctions should not demand unanimity but should be adopted by qualified majority. corruption should be also included as a reason for eu sanctions, as is done by great britain, us and canada. global democracies should synchronise their efforts to defend human rights and rights for democracy, especially in countries where people are still struggling with brutal autocracies – and especially in countries which have european roots but suffered a long denial of human rights during the soviet period and are now suffering new authoritarian regimes.
madam president, a few words about the council’s conclusions on russia. i can really congratulate council with ‘no’ to proposals on having immediate eu-putin summit, but the council perhaps spent too much time on discussions ‘to meet or not to meet’ putin, and here were too little discussions on the long-term strategy how ‘to push back’ putin on democracy, on navalny, on ukraine and on belarus. and of course we need to be effective in pushing back on human rights and democracy inside of the eu if we want to push back the kremlin on democracy. while following the council’s discussions on russia, i am able to make only the following conclusions: the european union and its institutions until now has a deficit of belief that russia at some time can transform itself and return back to a democratic type of development. second, eu institutions have a deficit of willingness to assist russia in such a transformation. third, eu institutions have a deficit of understanding how to assist russia in such a transformation. and fourth, eu institutions have a deficit of courage to recognise, that so-called ‘dialogue’ with the kremlin will not change russia, because president putin is not able to change his own behaviour. that is what the european parliament was asking the council – to review and update eu strategy towards russia, and the council unfortunately, for time being, failed to deliver. i hope that the european parliament will be able to recommend those lines in its forthcoming report on eu policy towards russia. only with such kind of strategy on the table is there a value to have a meeting with president putin.
mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, the greater integration of health systems is very welcome. i agree that the european centre for disease prevention and control should be given more powers and be obliged to monitor the impact of the spread of infectious diseases on the chronic disease situation. scientific results should not only be made publicly available to professionals, but also in a form accessible to citizens, in order to increase public health literacy. the functions of the centre should be reoriented to allow for modelling of disease outbreaks both at national level and across the european union in order to predict outbreak scenarios. we don't need new pandemics, which we're supposed to be better prepared for. let's model the management of covid-19 today here and now, and hepatitis c, which i've talked about many times. the harmonisation of statistics across countries and the use of modern technologies, including artificial intelligence, would ultimately reduce administrative burdens and save resources. we could save thousands of lives by going down that road in europe. thank you.
madam president, i was among those who believed that the brutal fanaticism in afghanistan would recede. but it came back. perhaps, this is the specific path of this country – long and turbulent. i am also mostly concerned about the afghan women, many of whom i had a chance to meet. but my message today is about us. we have to learn lessons, but i reject angry forecasts about the ultimate defeat of the west and of the role of the us. i do not believe that the eu should part with the us and start building full autonomy in eu defence. we need a smart eu strategy to be able to act as the eu where we are able to act – on hybrid attacks against us and on helping our neighbourhood countries ensure their security. but, today, preserving a strong euro—atlantic bond is more important than ever. it is crucial. democracy versus dictatorship. this is the big battle that we have to fight together with our partners in the us.
rapporteur. – mr president, this report on the european parliament recommendations on the direction of eu-russia political relations is a report on a really important topic. russia is an important country which has a big influence on all the developments in the eastern part of the european continent and the eu needs to have a clear long-term strategy with clear goals and clear instruments for our policy towards russia. our report is based on several clear principles. first of all, we want to have good relations with russia, but it depends on russia. with russia, led by the authoritarian, kleptocratic and aggressive, both domestically and externally, putin regime, it is impossible to have good relations. the russia of today is the greatest threat to european security. second principle. we are making a clear difference in our attitude towards the kremlin regime and towards russian people and russian society who are the first victims of such a regime. we are very critical of the kremlin regime and very positive and optimistic about the future of russian society. third principle. we are absolutely sure that, in the future, russian people will live with a european-type democratic system of governance. if ukrainians can do it, if belarusians are striving for it, there is no reason why russian people cannot go the same way. and we are absolutely sure that in the future the eu will have good and pragmatic relations with democratic russia. the report gives several clear recommendations to eu institutions on eu future policy towards russia. first of all, to concentrate our efforts on a very clear long-term goal and how to assist the russian people to transform their country back to democratic, european-type development. this is the first time the european parliament has given such a clear direction on the major goal of eu political relations with russia. the report elaborates that the strategy of eu political relations with russia should have three major pillars: push back, contain and engage. it sounds in a very similar way like it was first declared by vice-president borrell, but in the report maybe we are bringing more precise and concrete content to those three pillars. the first pillar, ‘push back’. push back against the kremlin’s aggressive policies of today, both external and internal policies. clear non-recognition policy of occupations and annexations in crimea, south ossetia, donbas; more effective type sanctions which should be better coordinated with transatlantic partners, including sanctions against oligarchs; possibility of non-recognition of legitimacy of elections, if they are stolen; effective implementation of the green deal as an instrument to cut eu dependency on russian gas, and so on. second pillar. containment pillar. sets out how to contain kremlin hybrid influences and how to make eu clean and safe of russia hybrid threats and corruption practices inside of the eu. if we want to help democrats in russia to transform their country and to get rid of kremlin autocracy, we need to make ourselves clean of kremlin influences. and the third pillar ‘engage’. engage not only with kremlin, but engage strategically with civil society in russia. let us offer the russian people a clear vision of what kind of relationship we’re going to establish between the eu and democratic russia – visa free, free-trade agreements, eu-russia real modernisation partnerships, and so on and so forth. that is what we can do in the future. the russian people need to know that transformation of their country will be beneficial to all of them who now are the first victims of their authoritarian and corrupt regime. what else can we offer? let us offer russian people also inspiration and an example to follow. much more ambitious eu support to make a success of the eastern partnership region, especially association trio countries: ukraine, moldova and georgia. their success, built with more ambitious eu integration policy, could bring a real inspiration to the russian people to follow a similar democratic way of development. and the last point. as you know this weekend there will be elections to the state duma in russia, so-called elections. lukashenko last year stole the election results after the elections. putin is trying to steal them even before the elections have taken place. more than 100 of the most important opposition or independent candidates were not allowed to participate in the elections. navalny is in prison, no osce observers are allowed to come. our report recommends not recognising the parliament of russia as the legitimate parliament if the elections are recognised as being fraudulent and having been conducted in violation of democratic principles and international law. that is why next week will be a test for all of us, and the eu institutions, not to be afraid to say that elections were organised in violation of democratic principles and international law, since even now there is a lot of evidence that this is the case. our report is a message to the russian people: we are together with them. we need russia as a good neighbour, with whom we can have good relations. we want the russian people to enjoy the same human rights, the same rule of law and democracy privileges as we have and we enjoy. we want the russian people to enjoy a modern and prosperous country. such a development of russia would be beneficial for russian people and for the whole of europe. and the eu can do a lot to assist russian people in such a transformation of their country. the eu needs to understand and accept its exceptional role and responsibility in such a transformation. and first of all the eu needs to overcome it’s ‘westlessness’ as was diagnosed by the munich security conference and wolfgang ischinger. our report provides recommendations on how to overcome this ‘westlessness’ in political relations with russia. the report was supported by a large majority and consensus among major political groups in the committee on foreign affairs (afet). such unity is also a strong signal to the kremlin. i hope that we will be able to keep the same unity here in the plenary. i would like to thank all the shadow reporters with whom it was a real pleasure to elaborate this important report.
madam president, i want to congratulate andrius. he worked hard and from his heart, because he sincerely believes that there is a possible future for a different russia. the kremlin likes to call many of us ‘russophobes’, but we are exactly the opposite. putin is the biggest russophobe of all. he is afraid of russians. he is afraid of the upcoming elections. that is why he has already eliminated all possible competition. it is clear that the upcoming duma elections will not be real elections, but another kremlin manipulation. they have already lost their legitimacy. it is good that the report addresses this. this report is significant. we can see that from the reaction of the kremlin and its proxies. now they monitor and react to every related development. i invite all those whose hands are not tied by the kremlin to vote in favour and to unite towards a clear and effective strategy to address the authoritarian regimes around us.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for a really good report. i will try to spend my minutes on some comments on chinese policy towards eu member states – this means lithuania. the government of my country, lithuania, in the spring decided to leave the so—called 17+1 format, which china created for relations with central europe in order to split the eu. also, our government decided to upgrade relations with taiwan and decided to open a taiwanese, not taipei, representation in vilnius. of course, china became very angry over lithuania, recalled the ambassador, and our business in china experienced different pressures and sanctions. i would like to thank all of you for the support and solidarity which you have shown to us. we in lithuania, several years ago, saw the same behaviour against lithuania, against our business, shown by russian authorities. we survived and we learnt a lesson. business with an economy which is led by authoritarian regime is a risky business, very risky. so today we need to send a clear, simple message. business with china or in china is a very risky business. second, china is big, we as lithuania are small, but we shall not be defeated because we are together.
madam president, i will talk about the part of the chinese nation that is called taiwan. this country is probably the most important today when we think about china’s future, not to mention hong kong, whose democracy-preserving leaders are already in jail. the government of my country has already announced that a taiwanese representative office will be established in lithuania. many in the eu support it. the us has already expressed strong support to lithuania. i urge the commission and the council to support lithuania and taiwan in developing cultural, economic and diplomatic relations, and to condemn china’s economic sanctions against lithuania over this issue. lithuania and taiwan setting up representative offices did not violate the eu’s ‘one china’ policy. i call for a real action to contribute to a safer eu, a safer world. only by supporting democracies can we contribute to that.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we will not be able to achieve our goal of ending hunger in the world by 2030. together we face the problem of climate change. natural disasters and the spread of deserts pose a major threat to food systems. we must fight climate change, but we cannot do it by reducing food production and raising prices. making meat unaffordable for many people is not going to solve the climate problem, or worse, the hunger problem. i think we should focus more on food systems that are based on local products and short supply chains. they provide us with the nutrients our bodies need most, avoid emissions from long delivery routes and help solve the problem of food waste. finally, we need to ensure that farmers who grow the food they need are fairly compensated. we must build political will to meet the commitments made by the european union, to bring about the equality of direct payments for farmers in the new countries and to put an end to long-standing discrimination.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, all of us we know what crimes against belarusian people lukashenko is committing, for what international crimes he is responsible. there is no need to repeat all the list. i would like to use this opportunity to thank commissioner for your support for the lithuanian authorities in defence of eu borders. but the only way out from this crisis is new, free and fair elections in belarus, which not only lukashenko, but also putin are so heavily afraid of. there are three major factors, which are making influence on developments in belarus: belarusian peoples’ protest, putin’s support for the brutal lukashenko regime and western support for belarusian people. with the lack of clear western leadership in resolving the belarusian crisis, with the protests temporarily silenced by brutal force, there is the only one significant factor in the field – putin’s support to lukashenko, and putin is responsible for all lukashenko’s crimes. this is why the eu has to make it clear that if the kremlin continues its current policy on belarus, the eu will have to introduce additional containment and deterrence measures on russia. and second what we need to do, we need to consider bringing lukashenko crimes to the international court of justice immediately on the basis of the chicago convention, montreal convention and the convention against torture violations. in addition, eu needs to establish a special task force to work with universal jurisdiction cases at the eu and member states level. the eu needs to show real leadership and to prove that it is able to resolve major political and humanitarian crisis on its borders. and žyvie belarus!
dear prime minister, dear commissioner, what we just heard is pathetic. we hear it on the kremlin propaganda channels. this is unacceptable, what we are hearing from the european parliament's gallery. i have to say it. we do not want to get used to, and we should not get used to, the brutality of alexander lukashenko. he's not just cruel to his own people, the belarusians. for him, a human being can be a mine or a bomb used in a hybrid war against the european union. the minsk regime, backed by the kremlin, is rounding up tourists from iraq and other countries to take them to the european union border and push them back to our territory. we've shown we can withstand this kind of attack, but the threat remains. the key to stopping this hybrid war is to stop alexander lukashenko, while showing the kremlin that it should not try to stop even larger flows of migrants. we must mobilize all forces to establish a tribunal... (the president of the sitting suspended the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, more than a year after the rigged presidential elections in belarus, we see that the current regime, backed by mr putin, is not considering any measures to maintain itself in power. it uses psychological and physical violence against its citizens. hybrid attacks against lithuania, latvia, poland and the european union have been launched. it is essential that the european union shows solidarity and supports by all means both the ordinary people of belarus and the member states of the european union that have been targeted by hybrid attacks. the exploitation of illegal migration must not become a weapon of the dictators at the eu's borders. it is essential that the european union, in its renewal of its refugee policy, provide for checks to prevent the use of migrants as a political tool. the new eu sanctions package should strengthen sanctions and significantly increase the coverage of companies, political and economic actors and their relatives associated with the lukashenka regime. their assets in the eu must be frozen and they themselves banned from entering the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, despite the fact that cyberspace is one of the greatest inventions of humanity, it can become the most dangerous weapon in the hands of evil in the 21st century. russia and china, the main countries from where the cyber-threats derive, already have well-prepared special cyber-units within their armed forces. also, they use private structures and are able to act very aggressively. the lack of boundaries in the cybernetic domain and the high-level cyber-attacks are a massive threat, and so they demand a coordinated response on the eu’s part. so it is crucial to reinforce the eu’s defence in this domain, as well as intensive cooperation between the eu and nato. i am happy that this important security issue has received a large cross-partisan support and agreement. the draft report reflects well the most important aspects of cyber-defence, such as prevention, as well as better crisis management or ability to respond to large-scale cyber-attacks. dear colleagues, i invite you to support this report.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in the ever—more digital world, cyberspace is a new frontier that has to be regulated, secured and protected. a robust cyber defence is paramount for the security of the eu and its member states. this was rightly addressed by president von der leyen in her state of the union speech, where she acknowledged the need for the european cyber defence policy. the interconnected world provides new opportunities for us, but also gives new challenges. it is very important to establish better information-sharing among the eu member states and better cooperation with like—minded international partners in order to reduce fragmentation and duplication. the ongoing permanent structured cooperation project (pesco) is a good example of how the eu member states can operate in the cyber defence field. cyber defence shall be one of the main priorities in the european defence industrial development programme and for the european defence fund. in the cyber defence field, know-how is the most important tool. therefore we should invest more in cyber defence training for eu military and civilian personnel. we should also extend such training programmes to our partners in the western balkans and the eastern neighbourhood countries. i would also like to welcome the setting-up of the eu cyber diplomacy toolbox that will provide the eu with the tools to address the new cybersecurity challenges. it is crucial to step up our ability of attribution; only with the speedy detection, identification and attribution of all cyber threats can we make sure that all originators of cyberattacks will be prosecuted in a timely manner.
mr president, this report is a very special event. the first european parliament report devoted exclusively to taiwan. i commend the rapporteurs on that. the example of taiwan shows that the chinese nation can live in a democracy. live very successfully, prosperously, and not aggressively. as the report points out, taiwan is a healthy democracy and technologically advanced economy. there is a direct connection between european prosperity and asian security. and taiwan could contribute to maintaining a rules-based order in the region. the eu and member states should take a proactive role in establishing partnerships with the democratic government of taiwan. the government of my country has taken a brave step to set up a taiwanese representative office in lithuania. i commend the report’s draft text expressing support and solidarity with lithuania, and i urge other member states to follow lithuania’s example and strengthen ties with taiwan.
mr president, since we are coming to the end of our discussions i will make a few conclusions and messages from our debate and from the report. the first one: there is strong cross-party support in this house for this unique report, which means that everybody is for more intensive relations between the eu and taiwan. this is a message not only to china but also to eu institutions: taiwan is no less an important partner than china. taiwan is a striving democracy of chinese people and it is a good example of democracy for mainland chinese people. one more message: the formula ‘one country, two systems’ means that at some time in the future both sides can unite themselves under the democracy umbrella. and the last message: china should abandon its attempts to threaten democracy and independence of taiwan or its attempts to threaten lithuania for our support to taiwan. i want to thank parliament and the weimers report for the language of support to us, and would like to remind the chinese authorities that thirty years ago the big soviet empire collapsed when it tried to fight against the democracy and independence of small lithuania.
on behalf of the ppe group the honourable prime minister, the honourable minister, the honourable commissioner. every human being, without exception, deserves to live in a healthy environment. a resolution adopted by the united nations human rights council earlier this month recognizes that the human right to a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment is essential for the enjoyment of other human rights. this document was adopted at the right time. world experts point to a frighteningly wide range of problems. new infectious diseases are spreading and emerging, biodiversity and ecosystems are being lost, climate change is taking place, water and air pollution is not decreasing. for example, 90 percent of the world's population breathes polluted air. bees and other pollinators are rapidly disappearing. europe considers and must make these issues a priority. we have a right to a healthy environment not just an expensive phrase. the european green deal, which was launched at the end of 2019, and the initiatives resulting from it, must and are already becoming real legislation, such as the european climate law. only in this way can we ensure a secure future for future generations. europe can, must and has already formulated politically and legally binding objectives. i believe that collective solutions based on science and evidence will help to ensure the proper and high quality environmental status that is necessary for both human and ecosystem well-being.
my dear commissioner, my dear colleagues. in the fight against climate change, the damage methane does is second only to carbon dioxide, and in some ways as a contributor to tropospheric ozone, and also in the context of health problems even more harmful. yet methane can be a great example of turning a threat into an opportunity. innovation and science can not only reduce methane emissions, but also make efficient use of existing ones. for example, methane-powered tractors are no longer an unattainable future, and the use of methane is likely to expand. i have a recent publication on a hybrid tractor built in lithuania - possibly the first in the world for professional use - powered by biomethane and electricity, and other manufacturers are developing similar technologies. i hope that technological solutions and support for them, the shift from prohibition to incentives and the circular economy will contribute to the overall reduction of methane emissions not only in agriculture but also in other sectors.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, when we are talking about push-backs on the borders with belarus, we need not to forget about the illegitimate lukashenko regime and his crimes. he is the reason for the suffering which people of belarus and millions on the borders are living through. let’s push back lukashenko out of power and there will be no more sufferings of ordinary people either from belarus or from far-away countries. let’s not allow lukashenko win this hybrid war against the european union, that he shall us to discuss only about migrants in order not to have time to discuss lukashenko’s crimes. i would like to thank the commission, including for the recent communication on a renewed eu action plan against migrant smuggling, which clearly shows that what we are facing in lukashenko’s actions is a special hybrid warfare, using state-sponsored smuggling of migrants. we need to remember that the smuggling of migrants is an international crime, which should be punished by all the force of international criminal law, including united nations conventions. so, my question is very simple: is the commission ready to bring lukashenko to criminal responsibility for criminal smuggling of migrants?
mr president, i am from lithuania. for me, it is very clear: lukashenko and putin have a strategic goal to escalate situation on eu border. let’s be ready. what do we need to do? the biggest mistake of europe would be not to defend its own borders. that is why i would like to praise the daily job of our border guards. first of all, eu needs to answer to lukashenko’s hybrid warfare with clear support measures to assist defence of eu bodies, including with the construction of physical infrastructure where it is needed. also, eu needs to immediately stop the influx of migrants into belarus, organised by lukashenko, with immediate sanctions against those airlines and belarussian airports, which are used in this smuggling crime. but we need to remember that the major reason of the threats is lukashenko’s regime itself, and putin’s support for his crimes. and that is why eu needs to target directly both the lukashenko and kremlin regimes. eu needs to show clearly that because of his crimes, lukashenko’s secret treasures will be arrested immediately, and lukashenko himself will be brought to the international court of justice in the hague for the breach of the un convention against transnational organised crime, protocol against the smuggling of migrants and convention against torture. putin needs to know that the eu will introduce new sanctions against kremlin, if kremlin continues to support the crimes of lukashenko. the weakness of democracies in their response to lukashenko’s crimes in an effective way since last year inspires him to become even more aggressive and to start new international crimes. let’s stop with that weakness on our side. with authoritarians, we need to talk the language of tribunals on confiscation of their secret treasures, and needs to be done now.
thank you, chairman. i think that the construction of a physical barrier on the external border of the european union is a very important aspect of this problem, and it is not so much a financial and not so much a legal but actually a political issue, and when, if not now, should the institutions of the european union show unity in countering the hybrid attack of the belarusian regime, in which deceived people are used as weapons and in fact as victims. the financing of the physical barrier is already a fact in one way or another and poland and lithuania see no other way to counter the hybrid attack and thus defend the schengen area and the whole european union. so this is not just a humanitarian problem; it's a broader security problem. so i am also in favour of extending the sanctions, and the physical barrier must be funded by the european commission together with the frontex surveillance systems.
mr president, mr high representative, you have very correctly defined the situation at the european union's borders with lithuania and poland in belarus. the belarusian dictator, who has imprisoned his own people, has started attacking the borders of the european union with people from weaker countries. the situation is really a dual one, we have an attack on the borders of the european union and we have a humanitarian crisis with those people who are being used in these attacks. so we have to do two things. i think you are quite right, commissioner. we have to talk to the countries of origin, we have to stop the transportation of these people to belarus by airlines, some of which are also owned by european union countries, and they cross the european union airspace. we also need to apply sanctions to the belarusian regime, including financial sanctions and disconnection from... we must also provide humanitarian aid to those people who are suffering from this transport and from their use in attacks against the european union.
dear prime minister, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, there has been a lot of good talk from this podium about the need to act together against the covid-19 pandemic. first, by making decisions based on science, and second, by not just acting at national level, but increasingly by delegating decisions to the european institutions. but again, we have to respond ad hoc. to prevent virus mutations and the spread of new variants, it was and is necessary to delve into viral mutations. this was the basis for the sequential audits, and the states had and still have different possibilities. the role of the european centre for disease control and prevention was expanded. the centre should be responsible for modelling situations, standardising statistics, using modern technologies, including artificial intelligence. finally, information on the mutations, the benefits and benefits of vaccination must be made available in a convincing, scientifically based, clear and comprehensible form to the public. it is important to note that these challenges, as we are now experiencing the fifth wave of the virus, are still with us.
the european pharmaceutical strategy is a document of particular importance, with the potential to help millions of european citizens. many years of european experience have shown that we can only overcome challenges by working together. we still face problems when access to healthcare services, therapies, treatments, technologies and care varies dramatically across europe. unfortunately, lives saved in one country are often lost in another. the pharmaceutical strategy should therefore in particular emphasise the conditions for ensuring accessibility and a high european standard. the covid-19 pandemic has demonstrated the importance of european joint procurement in healthcare. they helped ensure that european citizens in all european countries had equal access to the newly developed covid-19 vaccines. we must continue this positive practice. european joint purchases of medical equipment, devices and medicines can help ensure that every european citizen can receive accessible and equal care. particular attention should be paid to orphan medicines for rare diseases, which are often sold at particularly high prices. joint procurement at european level would help ensure that citizens with rare diseases can access health services and medicines. the european pharmaceutical strategy is an important step towards a strong european health, which must ensure not only better cross-border health protection, but also a european high level of health protection in the member states, from everyday health problems to complex rare diseases, not forgetting also citizens suffering from cancer and cardiovascular diseases.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, farmers in the european union have been waiting for three years for a decision on the reform of the common agricultural policy. now we finally vote on a compromise that has been the result of long and difficult discussions. the agreement on agriculture, as has been said here on many occasions, is not a perfect policy. i can only regret that european farmers will continue to receive different pay for the same work (lithuania, baltic countries) and that the european union's commitments to equalise direct payments to farmers in the new countries and to end long-standing discrimination will not be fulfilled. i would remind you, commissioner, that you have publicly committed yourself to greater action to achieve the equalization of direct payments for all farmers in the european union. and we must do it together: to make the countryside an attractive place for young farmers to set up, to develop small and medium-sized businesses and to farm throughout the european union. however, despite the shortcomings, the final agreement also has very positive aspects: inclusion of social conditions, more important support for small and medium-sized farms, young farmers, echo schemes, digitisation, innovation. i therefore urge everyone to vote in favour of this project and finally give our farmers the clarity to plan for their future and all eu citizens to consume more healthy, fresh food produced by eu farmers.
madam president, i am from lithuania, that is why i am really grateful to the commission. and i will not speak about lukashenko today, but i will emphasis that, in this house, it’s quite popular to say that defence of the eu’s borders is in some way against the human rights of migrants. it’s wrong. yes, we need to take care about the humanitarian crisis of those migrants who became hostages of the lukashenko regime in belarus. but we also need to take care of the safety of those hundreds of thousands of migrants, who potentially will be tempted to take the same route towards the eu if they see that the eu is not able to defend its borders. those who now are criticising poland or lithuania should understand what kind of crisis can be created if the borders were not defended. let’s find an effective humanitarian solution today, but let’s not create false hopes, which would lead to much bigger suffering, with much bigger numbers of potential victims.
dear prime minister, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, it is gratifying that in the face of the covid-19 pandemic, europe has already made unprecedented efforts to accelerate the development, approval and sharing of vaccines with other countries. however, when a strain of the virus, the more aggressive delta strain, becomes established, a booster dose is required. i agree with the views expressed on the full use of the covax platform. this is the only way to achieve a high overall global vaccination rate. sometimes we talk about the millions of doses we've given away, and we forget that we need not millions, but maybe hundreds of millions, and sometimes even billions. therefore, in order to increase the availability of vaccines, especially in poor countries, it is necessary to actively promote the abolition of export bans on vaccines, their raw materials and the necessary medical equipment. in the same way, in the effort to vaccinate as many people as possible quickly, it is important to focus not on the legal aspects of the waiver of intellectual property rights, but on the real increase of production capacity, the search for new partnership methods and the promotion of cooperation.
mr president, one third of european women have experienced some form of violence in their lifetime. in the case of spain, we have already had 37 deaths this year. for some years, since 2003, since they count, more than a thousand victims. it is a real scourge and today we woke up to the figure of 53,000 women who are under police surveillance because they are persecuted by their partners or ex-partners, threatened by violence. it's a real plague. half the population, commissioner, lives under the threat of sexist violence. is there anything more urgent in public policy than addressing this phenomenon? and the european framework is totally inadequate. yes, it is a shame that six countries do not want to ratify the istanbul convention, but put it on the council's agenda and ratify it by a qualified majority if necessary. finally, we cannot yet have a european framework of our own. we expect a lot from the directive that you have promised us. we hope it is comprehensive, broad - that it covers the phenomenon in a very very very broad and ambitious way to put an end to this scourge. many european women who today do not have their own framework in their countries to combat gender-based violence need this directive so that their countries can impose rules at once.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women remains one of the most widespread and serious violations of human rights. the suffering and negative consequences on physical and psychological health, as well as in the public and private spheres, are amplified in conditions of vulnerability, humanitarian crises and the current pandemic. female murder, trafficking, genital mutilation, sexual abuse and harassment, online and offline, are just some of the phenomena through which violent behaviour manifests itself, and are not alien to the family context. the attitude of those member states which are calling into question the istanbul convention, delaying its ratification and implementation or even expressing a desire to withdraw from it, must therefore be strongly condemned. this type of behaviour undermines efforts in the european union to expand action to prevent gender-based violence, to facilitate the protection and assistance of victims, and to report and prosecute perpetrators. the objectives of the convention represent a major legislative, social and cultural challenge to combat violence against women and to assert their fundamental rights.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, a few years ago, my 18-year-old student and her mother were shot dead by a jealous blind father. the man who had chosen to solve the family's violent problems was a prominent doctor and professor with whom i had worked on the school's parents' committee. what is the reason why 31% of european women are victims of physical and sexual violence, sometimes resulting in death? the main reason is the persistence of the patriarchal concept of the family and the gender stereotypes that are increasingly being repeated by the so-called apologists of the traditional family. five years ago, pope francis issued an appeal to the faithful, in which he made it clear that violence against women is rooted in male machismo, and that it must be combated. however, in my country, at least in lithuania, the istanbul convention is not ratified, mainly because of the political appeals to local hierarchs, who explain that the convention enshrines stereotypes at the level of the law, which pits men and women against each other. it's hard to read the content. such thoughts find a welcome home in a society that often ignores violence. sexual violence in the home is considered to be a form of marital duty, and victims of violence are accused of causing the violence themselves, allegedly through inappropriate actions. more active education is needed to break the cycle of violence. support, safe housing, digital platforms to inform women about their problems should be provided to women who are victims of violence. in order to go beyond mere formality, these measures need to be adequately financed.
author. – madam president, first of all, we are discussing a very important issue, and second, we give our full support to this important resolution, and thank the initiators very much. everybody knows what the kremlin’s wagner group is and what kinds of war crimes they have committed in crimea, donbas, syria, libya, the central african republic and other places: torture, killings, sexual violence, mass summary executions, disappearances and so on and so on. until now, nobody has been brought to international justice. we also need to understand what the wagner group is, according to international law. it is not a private military and security company, and it is not a voluntary group of mercenaries. it is a kremlin regime proxy organisation, a proxy military force with clear elements of criminal gangs in their activities. such a state proxy organisation is covered neither by conventions which prohibit the activities of mercenaries nor by any kind of international regulations which are applied to private, military and security companies. that is why it will be very important, after this resolution is passed, to continue our job in the parliament and other eu institutions in order to deal with such entities as the wagner group. my proposals are, first, to make a full—scale investigation into wagner group activities and crimes with a special parliamentary report, not just with an urgency resolution, which is good and needed for the time being; second, to qualify the activities of the wagner group as activities of state—organised and state—sponsored criminal gangs; third, to create an international law which would set out that states or entities which hire such proxy organisations as the wagner group also become internationally responsible and liable for the crimes committed by the wagner group; and fourth, to create an international law which would define that, for the crimes of such criminal gangs like the wagner group, russia, the russian state and the kremlin regime, which created such proxy criminal organisations, are also internationally responsible and liable.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, private military and security companies are not a new phenomenon, but in recent years their activities reached new heights. they function on the brink and in the shadow of international law. they become a useful tool for their totalitarian regimes and the rulers of illiberal democracies to project their powers and influence by hiding their direct involvement. we should not be naive: calling on russia to stop activities of the wagner group will not give any results. operations of this group are planned and controlled from the highest rank of the kremlin corridors. wagner group involvement is well documented in many recent armed conflicts. the eu could, and should, do two things. first, sanction business related to the private military groups that are reported to commit human rights atrocities; freeze their bank accounts; and, if necessary, prosecute them in accordance with international law. second, emphasise to all possible local beneficiaries that using such military is not compatible if a country seeks further cooperation and investment from the european union. the approaching eu-africa summit will be a good place to address this issue.
mr president, the covid—19 pandemic drastically changed our daily routine. as work from home became a new normal and people could not spend their incomes on travel and services, a big part of their freed cash went to buy overseas goods. this brought an unprecedented challenge to the global supply chain. an increased demand for goods, together with the recovered economy, highlighted many bottlenecks in the global supply chain and increased shipping costs. the un conference on trade and development report, published on 18 november, stresses that small open economies would suffer disproportionate consumer price increases because of their high trade charges. according to this report, in my country, lithuania, prices there will rise by 3.9% and in estonia by 3.7%. the impact will be even greater in the small island developing states, which could see import prices increase by 24% and consumer prices by 7.5%. the question is what the eu and the member states can do to reverse this worrying trend? the additional resources brought to ease port congestion have given the first positive results. we no longer hear news about container ships waiting for weeks to unload their cargo. modernising the quality of port infrastructure and improving shipping connectivity would also help to ease shipping congestion. but, in the long run, this crisis shows that the eu should do more to shorten the supply chain. this is true for different economic areas, such as agriculture, pharmacy and manufacturing. we should encourage bringing the production capacity back to europe and, in this way, help to shield our industries and consumers from future shipment, and market, volatilities.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, for my generation, the dissolution of the ussr was a great victory to which we contributed. i firmly believed then that the signatories of belovezh – russia, ukraine and belarus – would become democratic european states. it is harder for them because the communist regime that destroyed nations and people ruled them for more than 60 years. imagine 60 years of nazi rule! what would europe have been like? nazism was condemned internationally. the communist crimes, not. impunity for their crimes leads to the same aggression today. i am disappointed that only three political groups supported our initiative to take a comprehensive look at the history of the deportations and the gulags through an ep resolution. i call on colleagues who are not indifferent to sign its text. we are at a turbulent time again. the kremlin’s ultimatums on nato remind me of the ribbentrop-molotov division of europe. we cannot allow this. the ukrainians and the belarusians need help to defend themselves, but the russians need help too. the sakharov prize for navalny, the nobel peace prize for dmitry muratov are the right steps. however, this is not enough. first of all, we must not be afraid. putin frightens and intimidates both us and his own people. but we must follow the example of navalny and not be afraid. nothing provokes the kremlin more than inaction out of fear of provoking russia. the democratic world is stronger than autocracies. let us invite ukraine and georgia to an even closer cooperation with the eu. moldova has high expectations from us. its success would be the success of europe as a whole – including russia. free, democratic and economically prosperous, formerly-enslaved nations of the ussr would be the best remedy for its imperial ills.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 30 years ago the soviet union was counting its last days. the empire that had terrorized the world for decades finally collapsed, freeing many nations from their oppression. it is a truly epoch-making event that has brought europe together, not under the banner of fear and oppression but under the banner of freedom and democracy. it's hard to pinpoint one reason why the system failed at that particular time, but one thing is clear: the soviet regime, after years of terrorizing its own people in the first place, was one of the reasons why it was overthrown by those same people. i would like to remind you that my country, lithuania, was one of the first to contribute to the collapse of this giant. we were the first to declare independence in march 1990. but the contribution of other peoples, especially the russian people, is also of particular importance. without their support and understanding, the road to independence would have required many more sacrifices. it was not without reason that hundreds of thousands of russians took to the streets of moscow to defend their freedoms during the august 1991 coup. and while the current regime is trying to claim again that the collapse of the soviet union was a big mistake, i think the collapse of the soviet empire has shown that repression and oppression can only temporarily stifle people's desire for freedom. i think it's a sign of hope for future generations of russians, who now face no less dangerous wars for survival and oppression of their own people by a determined ruling regime. we must show our firm resolve to support the democratic will of the russian people to realize their democratic rights. we all want a safe and democratic europe from the pyrenees to the urals. we can only do this by joining forces, and first of all here in the european parliament.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission has been delivering on its promises in achieving a union of equality, taking into account particularly the challenges on gender equality exacerbated by the pandemic and the political backlash against women’s rights in some member states. we are determined to continue on the path of progress to empower women and girls and to defend gender equality as a fundamental value of the union. i thank the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) for this important report and for your efforts towards a gender-equal economy, eradication of gender—based violence, equal access to health education and for equality in everyday life. i welcome the efforts of the portuguese and slovenian presidencies in reaching an agreement for a general approach in council last week on our first deliverable, the proposal for a directive on pay transparency. i look forward to the negotiations with the european parliament and the upcoming french presidency. valuing women’s work and contribution to the labour market is crucial for propelling inclusive economic growth, social cohesion and social justice and enhancing business productivity. none of this is possible if half of the talent, skills and workforce is left behind. in this context, i stress the relevance of fairness to the pressing existential threat to europe and the world posed by climate change and environmental degradation. i hear your concerns regarding the green deal, and i assure you that the gender dimension is not forgotten. fairness and solidarity are defining principles of the european green deal. the union’s transition to climate neutrality by 2050 must be socially fair and inclusive in pursuit of the united nations sustainable development goals and in line with the european pillar of social rights. gender mainstreaming in employment and social policies plays a key role in the fair transition. the pandemic highlighted women’s enormous contribution to schooling, care and household tasks when formal care and social service infrastructures were down. moreover, their role in low paid but essential sectors such as the care sector has been proved indispensable. this is why it is crucial to ensure that our post—pandemic recovery policy properly recognises and values women’s contribution to our economy and societies. the recovery is an opportunity to improve gender equality. i thank the european parliament in particular for your support on mainstreaming gender equality in the recovery and resilience fund. the commission has adopted a delegated act, which was published at the end of the time period for objection of the european parliament and the council, which will enable us to identify specific gender equality actions financed under the recovery and resilience fund. this commission is fully committed to advance gender equality at the workplace. improving childcare services across member states is essential for halving the gender employment gap by 2030, as set by the action plan for the european pillar of social rights. in 2022, the commission will present a european care strategy, which will include a proposal for the revision of the barcelona targets on childcare and measures to enhance long—term care. moreover, investing in long—term care benefits the quality of life of those who need care, but also for care providers, both formal and informal care. the majority of care providers are women who might struggle to combine work with unpaid care duties. next to this, many care jobs have poor working conditions. the commission will also closely follow the transposition of the work—life balance directive, set for august 2022. but there can be no gender equality without a safe environment for women to work, go out or simply to live their lives. in the past four months, we reiterated the commission’s key priority of tackling gender—based violence. last week, the college adopted its initiative on the extension of the list of eurocrimes to hate speech and hate crime. this will complement the envisaged legislative initiative on violence against women and domestic violence, which we intend to present early next year. in parallel, and sharing the parliament’s objective, we remain committed to the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention, still blocked in council.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, a few years ago, the current prime minister of my country, when asked by a journalist whether she, as a woman, felt discriminated against, very aptly remarked: your very question clearly demonstrates how deeply rooted this discrimination is. the last couple of years of the pandemic have extended the time it takes to eliminate gender equality by more than 36 years. in other words, the pandemic has robbed a generation of women of their hope of being judged by their gender. in order to overcome the still slow progress towards, or even regression towards, gender equality in some countries, it is necessary to combat the social opposition to the so-called traditional family. this family, which far-right politics has removed from the concept of disciplinary religion, paints a fictitious picture of the modern world. here a father lovingly guards his children and a mother who cares for them at home. there is no tragedy, death, or social tension, no loss of the breadwinner (always the husband), and the family's income is sufficient for all its needs. it's obviously a cheap ideological cliché. it can be broken down by one elementary question: what is the right traditional family: the one where the woman left by her husband tries to survive alone with the children, or the new family of the man, where the woman's former spouse is happy with the new children? i've asked this question many times in my country. i never heard a response. the emphasis on how we can consolidate equality between men and women is on greater empowerment of women in the labour market and in power structures, on work-life balance, and on the development of public care services. this is certainly very important. however, i believe it is time to change the focus of the gender equality campaign. instead of constantly emphasizing women's empowerment, let's start emphasizing men's empowerment in the family. men, just like women, are certainly capable intellectually and emotionally of raising children, of doing housework, and of caring for needy family members. the law does not change reality. there's a lot of research: there's a lot of customs that laws can't change. reality changes with life itself and narratives change. we need to change the narrative and the interpretation.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we are talking about a european health union, and advanced health technologies are being implemented in a vacuum, without even stable funding. during that time, the challenges of covid-19 have demonstrated the importance of working together. the need for joint action by the states became apparent when considering the strategy to combat cancer, the pharmaceutical strategy. i'm glad we finally agreed on this instrument. it's a step forward in increasing the convergence of health systems, and it's likely to reduce bureaucracy. this is a step towards a more equal access to advanced medical technologies for patients in any country. in countries with fewer resources, joint clinical trials, joint assessments would be useful. in the long run, this would also equalise patient outcomes. innovative treatments, especially those targeting hard-to-treat diseases, should be assessed as soon as possible and in the most transparent way possible for their added value. while i regret that the joint clinical assessment reports will not be binding on member states, i believe that effective and smooth cooperation in health technology assessment could contribute to improving the health of all european patients.
mr president, what we are discussing today is not just one more instance of the aggressive behaviour of the kremlin. it is possible that, in the future, this day will be shown as the day when the geopolitical future of the european union in the 21st century started to be designed. putin, who started the war against georgia in 2008 and against ukraine in 2014, is now demanding that those countries should not take care of their security, and that the west should abandon them. here is the most important question to us, not to georgians or ukrainians: are we ready to succumb to the kremlin’s brutal threats and blackmail on the future of georgia and ukraine? are we ready to take big new steps in the ‘appeasement of putin strategy’? we know where the appeasement of hitler brought not only europe, but the whole world. the appeasement of hitler came to a culmination when hitler blackmailed the west on the future of czechoslovakia and the west succumbed. now putin is blackmailing the west on the future of ukraine. are we ready to succumb again? if not, than it is not enough just to say that nato and the eu will not listen to the kremlin’s demands. it’s time to move forward with the real euro—atlantic integration of ukraine, georgia and moldova, starting from the eastern partnership summit, which will start tomorrow, and moving forward with the map for nato membership. if that is not done, then it will become clear that the future of those countries is being sacrificed for the appeasement of putin. for the sake of appeasement, there were no decisions made to invite georgia and ukraine for the nato bucharest summit in 2008. because of that, putin decided that he could start his wars against georgia and ukraine. now we see that the continuation of that appeasement brings only new threats and blackmail and, if we succumb now, we shall be responsible for the recreation of real aggressive fascism in the 21st century and for all the future tragedies of the european continent. (the speaker spoke in ukrainian)
madam president, it seems that history tends to repeat itself. unfortunately, the current situation on the border with ukraine for me looks very similar to the situation on the borders with georgia in 2007, when europe tried to appease russia’s regime. let us not fool ourselves. it did not happen then, and it will not happen now. a glass bullet will never stop his actions just because everyone around him is acting nicely. well, unfortunately, a bully stops misbehaving only if he has the appropriate response. yes, the eu and our transatlantic partners have to declare that the first thing we want is a real de-escalation of the situation. but we also have to make clear that the eu will swiftly act against any violation to the sovereignty of the borders of ukraine and this reaction will include, but not necessarily be limited to, the usual financial and economic response.
dear prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, russia is escalating the situation: the build-up of its military forces on the ukrainian border is a direct provocation of conventional warfare. following the annexation of crimea, the escalation of separatism and the long-running de facto war on the territory of a sovereign state, russia has once again concentrated its large forces on the border of north-eastern ukraine. this is a test of both eu and nato vigilance. but not only that. the prospect of eu and nato membership must be mentioned as natural eventual processes. ukraine is not an object it is a subject and has an elementary right to territorial integrity, democratic choice, and the right to gravitate towards the west. russia is increasingly interfering in the internal affairs of that country, using blackmail, using not only hybrid but also conventional warfare. and i'm not just thinking about the current russian regime. the rules are changing, and what will the russian people think? i think that to start a new war in europe should be a historic disgrace for the russian people. and we need to send a clear deterrent signal to the current russian government. i support proposals to suspend oil and gas imports from russia to the eu, to remove the swift payment system and to freeze the assets of oligarchs and their families close to the authorities and to revoke their visas if russia dares to take direct military action. i see only one way to de-escalate the situation: concentrated, concrete and firm action by the countries of the european union and its western partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we welcome the increased cooperation between european countries in the field of health, we must note that the covid-19 virus is still able to take the lead. the more aggressive delta variant has taken over europe, and today we are already following with concern the situation and the data on the rapidly spreading omicron variant. so we must remain alert and keep our course straight. and i think he's been clear for a long time. it was clear that the virus would mutate, especially where vaccination rates were low. it is therefore necessary to accelerate the sharing of vaccines with third countries. we cannot forget the continuous and continuous monitoring of the virus mutations, ensuring a level playing field for all member states. secondly, we need to continue to focus on the solutions offered by science and technology. in this case, the focus should not only be on vaccination processes and updating vaccines against new virus strains (if necessary), but also on the search for new medicines, treatments and more effective diagnostics. thirdly, we must continue to trust the european institutions and give them the right mandate. finally, the information disclosed to the public must be accurate, targeted and balanced. it should encourage those who have not been vaccinated to be vaccinated and, if necessary, to receive a third dose, and to make rational decisions in the face of new variants. have a wonderful christmas!
dear prime minister, dear commissioner, dear minister, dear colleagues, the hybrid attack of the belarusian regime is still ongoing. the new approach of the council and the commission to simplify the procedures for managing illegal migration, while respecting all fundamental rights and international obligations, is therefore welcome. the possible application of simplified and accelerated national procedures, including for the deportation of persons whose applications for international protection have been rejected, will also alleviate the burden on poland, lithuania and latvia. i would say that other available means must be used to combat the migration crisis caused by the lukashenka regime: increased attention by the european union agencies, support from frontex, the construction of a physical barrier, which should be financed, in my opinion, by the european commission, the tightening of sanctions. and all of this should help to manage this and similar potential crises more effectively.
author. – madam president, as we know, putin wants to destroy memorial. many human rights organisations were destroyed by the kremlin up till now. but memorial is a unique organisation which was created by andrei sakharov back in 1989 in order to preserve memories about the atrocities of the gulags and stalin’s crimes. andrei sakharov understood in a very clear way that in order to build a new democratic post—imperial russia, russia needed to recognise the tragedies of its past. the largest victim of stalinist crimes was the russian nation itself. the nation needs to recognise the crimes and the tragedies of its past, because this is the only way to overcome the nation’s post—imperial nostalgia for its imperial past, which is the biggest enemy of a young post—imperial democracy. after yeltsin, a young russian democracy failed to survive. it appeared that in the society of young democracy, nostalgia for the imperial past was stronger than a democratic mentality. and now putin wants to destroy memories about stalin’s crimes. he wants to destroy an institution which was trying to bring the truth about stalin’s crimes to ordinary russians. it is symbolic that memorial, in its activities, combines its care about the memories of stalin’s crimes in the past and its care about putin’s crimes against human rights today. there is no big difference in the mentality of the kremlin during stalin’s time and during putin’s time. for both, human life means nothing; for both, human dignity, human rights and the sovereignty of nations means nothing. the only difference is that one was stronger in mass persecution, while the other is stronger in mass kleptocracy. putin wants to destroy memorial because he wants to destroy memories about stalin’s crimes. for putin, stalin is an example to follow, not an object to be criticised. the logic of putin is very simple – there is no need to register or investigate either the crimes of stalin or the crimes of putin. we cannot stop putin right now in destroying memorial, in his attempts to destroy memories about gulag crimes and in his attempts to bring stalin back to glory. the future of democratic russia will stop him, and history shows that such a future is unavoidable for russia also, but for the time being putin can succeed in destroying memorial. what should be our answer? first of all, we need to be ready to recreate memorial inside the european union, which would take care of the safety of archives and memories which were collected by memorial in russia. second, we need such a memorial inside the eu to collect all the evidence about stalinist unsolved crimes not only in russia, but on the whole continent of europe. one last point. since putin is finishing destroying the last human rights organisations in russia, we need to establish a special eu envoy for human rights in russia, whom we could call the ‘memorial envoy’ and who would be responsible for collecting, analysing and publishing all the data about human rights violations in today’s russia. mr putin, you can destroy memorial, but you will not destroy human memory, including the memory about your crimes.
