vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you to all of you. i see that everybody is eager, is willing to increase our relationship with latin america. good. we will have opportunities to demonstrate that we really want to do it. the whole region is in a very difficult situation. they are facing the worst recession of their history, and in central america, especially, you know the drama of migration – we see that on the tv screens. the violence, inequalities, bad governance in some countries would require a stronger engagement from our side. this is the moment to show real solidarity and work together, to join forces and promote green, digital, and fair transformation. green and digital is not enough. we have to add also that the transformation has to be fair and look for more social and environmental justice. and from our side, we cannot become the geopolitical power we claim every day that we are or we want to be without a strong presence in latin america and the caribbean. if we do not reinforce our relation with the regions, others will do so – they are doing so. and if we don’t agree on reinforcing our ties with these association agreements that are on the table, others will do. i am not sure the result would be better from any point of view: no digital, no environmental, no climate, no justice, no better governance. so let’s seize this opportunity; let’s have a look at the situation of these agreements. two of them are almost finished, one of them practically finished: mexico. i hope it will be presented to the parliament in the second quarter of this year at the latest. the chile agreement should also be ready to be ratified – approved first, because it’s still not approved – at the level of the commission. because chile is living a political process of writing a constitution, and we should accompany chile in this very important political process. this country has decided to put aside the constitution inherited from the pinochet times and write a new one. as a spaniard, it reminds me of a moment in our history. so we have to accompany chile on this process; we have to show that they matter for us – and frankly speaking, they will not believe that they matter for us if we say that, okay, we don’t like this agreement, let’s put it in a corner. with mercosur, maybe things can be more complex, i understand. there are several solutions on the table. the council and the commission will have to take a decision about whether to split it in two parts – let’s see what the parliament can think about it – or to go together with the whole package, complementing it with what is needed in order to ensure a better protection of the environment. but let’s work on that. don’t wait 20 more years.
this conversation is over.
the following joint debate is scheduled: report by mr david mcallister, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy annual report 2020 [2020/2206 (ini) ] (a9-0266/2020), report by sven mikser, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common security and defence policy annual report 2020 [2020/2207 (ini) ] (a9-0265/2020) and report by isabel santos, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2019 and the european union's activities in this field [2020/2208 (ini) ] (a9-0259/2020). members are informed that no requested speeches or blue card questions will be allowed in the debate during this part-session. i would also point out that the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states.
rapporteur. – madam president, the year 2020 was in many ways unprecedented for all of us. the covid-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have severe economic, social and political consequences. it also had and has geopolitical consequences, and they will inevitably affect key aspects of the european union’s common foreign and security policy. the last year has reminded us that the european security environment is today more volatile, more unpredictable, more complex and more ambiguous than at any time since the end of the cold war. potential threats have become reality, and in the wake of a global pandemic, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms are deteriorating in many parts of the world. disinformation campaigns and cyber-attacks have increased, isolationist trends and competition between major international actors are on the rise. let me underline three main findings of my annual common foreign and security policy (cfsp) report. firstly, the european union should position itself as a partner of choice in a changing geopolitical order. we are living in a weakened global system where multilateralism is being heavily attacked. it is essential to quickly adopt and adjust our european response to this new geopolitical reality. the european union is a partner of choice for third parties guided by the promotion of democracy and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we are a reliable actor and mediator in conflict resolution, but also a leader in promoting multilateral frameworks. however, too often, the european union was and is divided, lacking the necessary weight and credibility to have a decisive impact on the geopolitical developments. a second point: a new level of ambition is required to shape the cfsp. what the european union needs, first and foremost, is a genuine political will from all member states to jointly push our common foreign policy goals and counter third countries’ attempts to divide us. there is still a large untapped potential in combining and integrating all strands of the european union’s external actions, hard power and soft power to achieve our common goals. and thirdly, concrete steps are necessary to strengthen the eu’s common foreign and security policy and thereby our global influence. we need to consolidate our strategic alliances with like-minded partners across the world, and also diversify our cooperation on an ad hoc basis. we need to reinforce our strategic sovereignty and need a common understanding of what this actually means. we need a quicker and more effective decision-making process. this means, for example, as often discussed in this plenary, to move from a unanimity to qualified—majority voting at least in selected areas of cfsp or to consider additional formats to improve our external actions such as a european security council. on our common security and defence policy, we need to strengthen the capacity at eu and also at member state level to establish a fully-fledged defence union. finally, the common foreign and security policy and our external actions as a whole require appropriate financial resources. in this regard, i welcome the breakthrough in the trilogue concerning the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument to name just one. all financial instruments including the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) iii and others need to be finalised and become operative soon. dear colleagues, to conclude, no single eu member state can respond effectively to today’s global challenges on its own. we must continue to strengthen our common foreign and security policy, we must continue to reinforce our global influence and we must continue to enhance our capacity to act. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the good, constructive and fruitful cooperation on finalising this document and, dear high representative vice-president, let me also thank you personally and your team for the helpful support in writing down all these parts of this report.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you to the three members who have presented this report: david mcallister, mr mikser and ms santos. three reports, article 36 teu: common foreign and security policy; common security and defence policy; and human rights. i wish we could have several differentiated strategic debates to discuss all the interesting points you have raised, but how do we do that? we have a very limited time for three reports, so allow me to cover the most important aspects of them. first, all reports stress that this year – 2020 – the pandemic has accelerated political trends and revealed a weakness in global governance and also in european governance. facing the covid—19 challenge has been very challenging, but i think we can be proud that we not only stuck together but grew together, and now our bloc is a more cohesive one. we have been fighting for multilateralism – the rules—based order for global solidarity – as the only sustainable way out of the crisis, when others have been pushing to narrow nationalist agendas. i hope in 2021 multilateral cooperation will make a strong comeback and, at the same time, i hope that we will pursue our open strategic autonomy and apply the concept in concrete ways, to stop discussing about theology and going to practicalities. in everything we do, we will continue to defend our values of freedom, democracy, rule of law, human rights, as your reports have underlined. i cannot agree more on that. on the geographical front – you will understand it is impossible to cover everything; let’s go to the telegraphic style: usa, transatlantic partnership, we have been talking a lot about it; ask tomorrow. the biden administration, i hope, will be finishing with governing by tweeting and offering another approach and to try to make multilateralism great again. it will require closer cooperation between the eu and the us, at least on three areas: climate change, iran nuclear deal, and regulating big technological platforms, among others. and latin america, we have just talked about it. africa remains a top priority for us. covid shapes our agenda. we had to postpone the african union summit: we are still waiting for it. we have been supporting africa. we need to do more together. debt relief initiative, very much important. our relationship with africa is such a strategic one that we should invest much more on getting an equal partnership. when you see the demographic imbalance between africa and europe, one has to ask every day that we should engage more with them, otherwise we will pay the price. on asia, we have to work with like—minded partners. we have upgraded our relation with asean to the level of a strategic partnership, and we are proud of it – i think it’s a good achievement. we overcame the difficulties related with palm oil, and now we are on the way to becoming a strategic partner with these countries. this is going to give us a solid basis to improve our influence in a region where there is a growing demand for a growing eu presence. china: maintain both a principled and pragmatic approach. we have signed a comprehensive agreement on investment. it shows our effort to address economic imbalances and improve our access to the chinese market. i’m sure there will be a very lively debate in this parliament about this agreement. but keep in mind, you have to engage with china. we cannot expect china to stop being china before engaging with china on challenges such as climate, covid and debt relief. no one can talk about debt relief today in the world without taking into account the fact that china has become the biggest creditor of the emerging countries. and at the same time we must stay firm on defending human rights in hong kong: that’s clear. on the wider neighbourhood – western balkans, eastern mediterranean, north africa and the sahel – there, belarus has been remaining the most important actor on our agenda. russia and turkey, you make a particular mention of these countries: yes, they play a key and often complicated role – we have been talking about that with respect to russia. tomorrow i will have a long meeting with the foreign affairs minister of turkey. we are going to engage on trying to look for a better understanding. the leaders of the european union council send a clear signal of willingness to engage with turkey on a better neighbourhood but, as with the tango, you need to be two to be good neighbours. we will try. and it seems that the ambiance is much better than in the last summer. let’s hope that my meeting with minister çavuşoğlu will be at least longer than the one i had in malta during the month of august, which lasted no more than one hour. so let’s see if we can change the dynamics. i’m sure we will. uk: the new trade and cooperation agreement to be ratified by this house will provide the basis for a new start, and then we’ll have to deal with our friends and neighbours as a third country to the european union. let’s go to the horizontal issues, or let’s go to the issues that go beyond the geographical approaches. the first one is disinformation. more and more, disinformation plays a crucial role. disinformation has always existed. in spain, before we talked about fake news we were saying bulos: something that is not true, and everybody tells it, and at the end everybody believes it and it changes mentalities and changes the perception. they have always existed. now the problem today is the incredible power that the social networks give to disinformation: the amplification of any bulo, of any fake news. and if people believe that the election has been stolen from them: do they believe it, true or not? well, it doesn’t matter, they believe it and they act accordingly with it. and the assault on the capitol is a good example of this combination of disinformation plus the power of the social networks on disseminating it. i would like to stress the importance of the stratcom in the european external action service to fight disinformation and the support that this parliament has given to the stratcom services. i think that in cooperation with member states, we have to do more and to counter any threat, especially to the elections interference. on security and defence: i would like to commend our colleagues in our 17 missions and operations for delivering on their mandates in this difficult situation. i also appreciate a lot your support. you have helped navigate this common foreign and security policy budget to a safe harbour during 2020 as well as the multiannual financial framework. particularly important is the political agreement reached on the european peace facility: 5 billions, 7 years, for sure it will make our cfdp more effective and respond better to our partners’ needs. operation irini deserves a special mention. it has made an important contribution to improving security in the mediterranean. and atalanta? and if we want to be a global maritime security actor or provider, we have to expand the mandate of atalanta and to introduce this idea of the coordinated maritime presences. member states always have a warship somewhere. not all of them at the same time in the same place, but look at any geographical position and you will find that, a certain amount of the time, there are some warships from some member states. why don’t we coordinate their presence and make all of them together an eu presence through coordinating the presences of the member states? we are going to launch our first pilot initiative in the gulf of guinea next week. also, we launch a new civilian mission in the central african republic, a country in a very difficult situation, complementing the existing military mission. our partnership in nature remains strong, but we need to strengthen our role in security and defence. it is not one thing or the other; it is not one thing against the other; it is not more of one and less of the other – they are complementarities. and now we are building on a threat analysis conducted for the first time at european union level: the so—called strategic compass. and i think this is going to be very important to define which are the challenges that we are going to face in all critical domains. i think that this is complementary also of other reports, like the first strategic review of the permanent structured cooperation (pesco) that has been focusing on how the member states have been fulfilling their commitment. there are 26 out of 46 pesco projects that will deliver results by 2025, but i think that the pesco project has to be much more operational: less focusing on capabilities and more on operability. finally, the area of human rights. i think there is one achievement that i have to mention: the eu global human rights sanctions regime. your support was vital. remember that we launched this initiative in december 2019 in the first foreign affairs meeting that i had the honour to chair, and now i am expecting the first proposal for listing to come from member states. it is a tool and it has to be used. if you keep the tool in the toolbox, it is useless, so let’s wait and see if the member states have the will, once they agreed in the council by unanimity to use it. in tangible terms, through the european instrument for democracy and human rights, we have supported nearly 45 000 human rights defenders in the last five years. well, this is a figure to take into consideration. when people say: what are you doing? what do you do?, please give this kind of answers. we have been supporting financially 45 000 human rights defenders during the last five years, and we remain particularly committed to women’s and girls’ human rights, as reflected in our gender action plan. dear members, i would like to talk a lot about other things in our foreign and security policies. we have to work more on the security side of this policy; we have to work more in order to make human rights taken seriously by third countries. and there are also some successes – we should not be hiding our successes, we should be proud of what we have achieved. mongolia and pakistan agreed to conduct a child labour survey; in sri lanka child labour has been down from 16% to 1%, through the pioneering child labour—free zones. in bolivia the minimum age to work has been raised to 14 years. fourteen is still too low for us, for our standards – it is still too low, but it was even lower. through the implementation of the third action plan on human rights and democracy, we will increase our resilience even more. we have approved the european democracy action plan. we have a lot of plans and a lot of strategies, but the important thing is at the end, how do you implement it? you should be more attentive to the implementation than to the drafting. the important thing is action. yes, i know we have to have a plan, have to have a strategy, but this is just a starting point. what really matters is what comes later. and a funny thing; people, the media, even the parliamentarians pay more attention to the plans than to the implementation of the plans. and i think it would be much better to have the debate not about the plans but about how they have been implemented, because these are the real things that matter. thank you for your work, and especially to the ones who have been participating as chief observer on electoral observation missions. the last three were guyana, peru and ghana. i’m sorry, this year has been a very meagre year from the point of view of electoral observation missions – it’s one of the effects of the virus, sorry. i know that the parliamentarians are very much involved in that and are eager to participate in these missions – it is an important part of our external action. i hope that we will be able to do more in 2021, even if the prospects for the time being are quite dire. we have done a lot, and for sure, we will do more. this year will be a year of recovery, hope and delivery. we have demonstrated the added value of the european union in 2020. i think the union is more cohesive. it is much more difficult to doubt about the utility of the european union after the pandemic because of the answer of the european union. and if you compare with the answer that we gave to the euro crisis is still more, has been impressive, both internally and externally, be it on the pandemic or in the wider set of challenges that we are facing. so, many thanks to all of you. i am now listening to your comments in order to learn from what and how we can improve our work.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thinking of the five french soldiers who have died in recent weeks in mali, killed in action. they remind us that our debates are not just about disembodied subjects but that, in operational theatres, young europeans are dying for our security today. on the annual report of the csdp, i would like to greet and thank our colleague mr mikser, with whom we have cooperated well, and i would like to raise two particular points. our debate comes on the eve of the inauguration of the new american president and we can see how strong the temptation is here in brussels, in our assembly, to consider that the end of the trump presidency closes a bad parenthesis and allows a return to the comfort of the past, if it ever existed, the comfort of all-round american protection and the least european effort. i think it would be a profound mistake to approach the years ahead in this way. the desirable improvement in transatlantic relations cannot absolve the europeans of their responsibilities, both for their own security and for being reliable allies in an increasingly unpredictable world. this is called strategic autonomy. i know the term is controversial, but i think that ambition should not be abandoned. the second point i would like to make is our tasks in the common security and defence policy. recent developments on our southern flank, and particularly in africa, illustrate the fragility of our commitments. in the sahel, somalia and the central african republic, our european missions and operations are increasingly being overtaken by the activism of new actors who have none of our legal, political, moral and material constraints. our training and advisory models have their merits, but they are not decisive and we will therefore need to think quickly about the formats and objectives of our missions and operations to be effective, because if we want a more effective and relevant csdp in this unstable world in the future, we need our member states to be more willing and more robust.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, let me first of all thank isabel santos for her excellent report. the deterioration of the human rights situation around the world is rapid and severe. at this very moment, authoritarian leaders are increasing their repression of independent journalists, political opposition and human rights activists, and their cruelty is not confined to borders. they are trying to rewrite the rules. autocrats have launched the most comprehensive attack on the human rights system in decades and these regimes do not have any red lines. china’s atrocious crime against the humanity of the uighurs is a clear demonstration of that, and what is more, many blatantly use the cover of today’s pandemic to undermine the rule of law, weaken democracy and trample on fundamental rights, and the freedom of expression was the first to suffer the consequences. for instance in morocco we saw a further clamping down on any journalist reporting on the hirak movement and when the un high commissioner for human rights called for the release of political prisoners to protect them from the virus, these autocrats flatly refused. and turkey’s unwillingness to release osman kavala and opposition leader selahattin demirtaş is just one reprehensible example. i sincerely hope the high representative will raise these two issues in his meeting with the turkish foreign minister tomorrow. what is more, autocrats are stepping up their disregard for international law, with putin first trying to assassinate navalny and then arresting him on political grounds the moment he returned. human rights are not optional. they are universal and indivisible; they need protection, and we must continue to be extremely firm today, and every day.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we are supposed to be a geopolitical union, but 2020 has shown the opposite. lukashenko rigged an election and stayed in power. in nagorno-karabakh, putin and erdoğan shared the loot. russia and china launched a covid disinformation campaign in the heart of europe, with the devastating effect that more than 20% of our population does not believe in vaccination. chinese money redraws the geopolitical map in africa and, although we suffered the biggest migration crisis as a direct result of the war, we have given up playing a role in syria. and to top the year off, the eu agreed a deal with a china, which is going through its most repressive phase since the tiananmen square massacre. mr borrell, it’s not your fault. you have said it yourself: the underlying structure is broken. europe always acts too little, too late, because we are paralysed by the unanimity rule. we don’t have a defence union and we have no real strategy with russia or china. so, please, let’s start the conference on the future of europe and fix this broken system. otherwise, colleagues, we will remain a playing field instead of the global player that we aspire to be.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am speaking on the report on the eu's common foreign and security policy. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr mcallister, for the extremely good and constructive cooperation which has led to the result we have before us. the report shows that we have a great deal of agreement in parliament, and that is a good thing. i expressly agree with the three key messages that mr mcallister spoke of earlier. on the other hand, the report also shows that there is still no clarity in the heated debate on so-called strategic autonomy, which sometimes seems to me to be a dance around a golden calf. i would like us to come to the conclusion that this should be the guideline wherever it is possible to cooperate with others and to march alone only where it is absolutely necessary. my group has tabled a number of amendments, for example to support the un nuclear weapons convention or to remove an unnecessary mention of an unnecessary commitment to the mercosur agreement. i hope you will accept these amendments so that we can all agree with the whole report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the covid-19 crisis has put democratic stability and respect for the rule of law and human rights to the test around the world, but we must draw greater impetus from the crisis and adversity for our ambitions. this parliament has strongly supported the adoption of a comprehensive human rights sanctions mechanism, a mechanism which will finally allow targeted sanctions to be adopted, but which is not an end point, but rather a starting point. it should be revised and brought into line with the ambitions of the european parliament, withdrawing the unanimity rule and including corruption among the cases actually envisaged. the challenge will be to restore credibility and consistency, and this will only be possible through strict respect for human rights and stricter controls on violations by our trading partners, through strict use of human rights clauses in agreements with third countries and a really effective due diligence regime for our companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the globalization we must fight for is and must be that of rights, much more important than that of markets.
madam president, the annual reports on human rights and democracy in the world follow one another and unfortunately look similar. the violations of the rights of children, women, minorities, journalists and human rights defenders remain a constant. the crimes committed against them are often beyond our comprehension. it is crucial that these crimes are exposed. the minimum is to raise our voice and denounce so that these crimes do not disappear in the shadow of impunity, even allowing the crimes to be ignored and their perpetrators covered by anonymity. the issue of impunity is at the heart of our concerns and in this context i would like to welcome the creation of a mechanism to specifically target individuals guilty of serious human rights violations, our european magnitsky act. the council, the member states and the foreign affairs service must have the courage to implement it quickly, but our credibility is at stake. as for the state of democracy in the world, i have personally insisted that we recognize the dangers to democracies posed by the restrictions on fundamental rights, which are unavoidable during this covid-19 pandemic. we must always keep in mind the defence of democracy, again and everywhere, even where it seems obvious. if need be, events across the atlantic have been a cruel reminder that no democracy is immune, not even the most robust. when lies replace facts, when disinformation becomes institutionalized in the media, when political self-interest and careers prevail over the defense of the rule of law. so let us keep on the watch.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the political situation in turkey is showing increasingly worrying signs. all democratic opposition is threatened with being banned from running for elections because those who win are threatened with charges of complicity in terrorism, and then detained for long years, like mr. selahattin demirtas, a prominent candidate of the kurdish hdp party in the presidential election of 2015, then imprisoned in 2016 after being re-elected as an mp and still in prison for five years. in the face of such democratic scandals, the european union's first duty is to ensure that it bears no responsibility for them. it is therefore time to question the relevance of the inclusion of the pkk on the list of terrorist organisations, when it has not been accused of any such act for a very long time. it is an armed organisation engaged in a territorial conflict, but there is no justification for classifying it as a terrorist organisation, except for a few decades ago. this was also confirmed by a court decision in belgium in 2020. by removing this political cover from mr erdoğan's repression, europe would thus send a positive signal to the entire democratic opposition in turkey.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, colleagues, listening to you, one would think that this room is full of human rights fighters, people who are courageously opposing dictatorships, and people who are not afraid to say in the eyes of the dictator erdoğan that he is a dictator. unfortunately, colleagues, that is not true at all. for seven years i have been telling you from this room and from strasbourg that erdogan is a dictator, that he violates human rights, that he throws journalists in jail, that he wages illegal wars everywhere, and for seven years most of you have pretended not to see or hear what is happening. and when we ask you for real action on this issue, we hear the answer that erdogan and turkey were strategic partners. so how is it that at the same time, colleagues, erdogan is your strategic partner and you criticize him here for human rights violations. one of them is true, they can't both be true. so what we need to do is stop the empty talk here and take real action. that means sanctions, that means ending the membership negotiations, because turkey is not a european country, as we know, that means finally seeing the truth and acting. the rest, i repeat, is empty talk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are here for the umpteenth time to discuss turkey. since the failed coup in 2016, the government's purges in ankara have not seen a break. erdoğan continues to use the event as a justification to strike all his critics, to block and detain his opponents and to consolidate his government. for four years now, the turkish government has been arresting, and even kidnapping, people affiliated with opposition groups and civil society, particularly members of the people's democratic party, without interruption. now, with the covid-19 pandemic, it has also had yet another pretext to strengthen authoritarian rule, by passing new restrictive laws to curb dissent. the case of selahattin demirtas, who has been unjustly imprisoned for four years in defiance of the judgments of the european court of justice, and that of the other courageous hdp deputies and democratically elected mayors are all emblematic cases, which further demonstrate not only turkey's deafness to international appeals and the provocative attitude of its president, but also its contempt, indeed contempt, for the rule of law and international institutions. ladies and gentlemen, the eu has so far been too lenient in its attempts to open a dialogue with turkey, which is in fact unilateral. we need a shake-up of the dignity of the free world, we need to understand that words are no longer enough. we have a new, effective and targeted sanctioning instrument, the so-called magnitsky act: if we are not prepared to use it, if we continue to use double standards and to be blackmailed on the issue of migration, we will not only lose credibility, but our dignity will also be lost forever.
mr president, i visited a pediatric hospital in gaziantep in southern turkey, and in the incubators were many tiny syrian babies. i was amazed at how little social unrest flowed from the impact on public health services in that area, despite the large syrian displaced population. when we criticise the turkish government, and we should, we should also remember the incredible welcome and, ultimately, vindication of human rights provided by the turkish people to their arabic-speaking neighbours in the decade since the syrian uprising. i wonder if that welcome would be provided in every eu country. i know that in my own country, there are instances where reception centres for asylum seekers were burned down mysteriously before refuge could be provided to anybody seeking protection and fleeing a well-founded fear of persecution. i have no illusions about the turkish government. i will continue to campaign for i̇lhan sami çomak. he has been in jail since 1994. his case was found unsafe by the european court of human rights in 2007 and he’s still in jail in 2021. it’s an outrage. but if we are to keep alive the dream of a common european future, we have to draw distinctions between the turkish government on the one hand, and the turkish people on the other hand.
mr. chairman, please! it's good that we're talking about turkey, because it's a very important country, a very important partner of the european union, also an incredibly important member of nato, which in its region is certainly stabilizing the situation in the context of what's happening in, say, iraq or syria. ten days ago, at a meeting with the ambassadors of the member states of the union, the turkish foreign minister announced, let's call it, some liberalization and said that for the last couple of years, turkey has been fighting terrorism, but now it's time to focus on economic issues. what are the consequences? we'll see about that. i think it's a step in the right direction. i think we need to talk to turkey, we need to present our arguments, we need to look for common ground, and of course we need to address the issues that require it. i think what we need is a dialogue.
mr president, turkey is a candidate country for membership of the european union. with this status, turkey has committed itself to respecting freedom, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, pluralism, justice and to be able to apply european law. the reminder is necessary because the turkish authorities do not even follow the judgments of the european court of human rights to which they are subject. a 2018 judgment of this court, confirmed in december 2020, obliges the turkish authorities to release selahattin demirtas immediately. the court held that mr demirtas' detention was politically motivated and expressed its fears about government interference in judicial affairs. so if president erdoğan wants to give a start of credibility to his recent commitments to carry out the reforms needed to relaunch turkey's eu accession process, he could start by implementing the decisions of the european court of human rights and freeing mr demirtas. a minimal gesture that will have to be followed by many others before we can start to believe in promises that have so far not been kept.
mr president, a year ago the european parliament approved free trade and investment protection agreements with vietnam. however, there were still serious concerns about the communist regime's compliance with the commitments contained in these agreements with regard to respect for human rights and international labour law. we have therefore, madam commissioner, accompanied these agreements by the demand that an independent human rights monitoring mechanism and an independent complaints mechanism be set up so that citizens can have effective access to redress. these mechanisms have not yet been implemented. we urge the commission and the vietnamese authorities to put them in place. we also regret that the internal consultative groups set up under the partnership and cooperation agreement are still not operational. it is unacceptable that vietnam should not respect an integral part of the agreements without consequences. we feel particularly insulted that pham chi dung was and is still in prison for having contacted meps in the framework of free trade and investment agreements. parliament called on the vietnamese authorities to release him immediately, as well as the other journalists and human rights defenders who had been unjustly imprisoned.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in the united states in recent months shows once again how the power of social media has become so all-encompassing that it is possible to blackmail the president. a power that challenges the values that are the foundation of our societies: democracy, pluralism, freedom of expression and privacy. all of this is the result of years of practices that have favored manipulating users for profit, highlighting content based on views, and reinforcing everyone's biases through extreme proliferation through data. the right to see your own expression expanded by paying for more exposure to your content is a false right. and we've seen scandals like the one with cambridge analytica. then it can't be postponed. respecting net neutrality and freedom of expression, we must take away the absolute power of social networks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems.
madam president, balance is what a democratic society should be. finding the balance between maintaining freedom and fighting drift is the challenge in social media. social media has been a tremendous asset for civil society and therefore for democracy. they have allowed the truth to be revealed, they have allowed meetings of concerned citizens, they have allowed everyone to express their thoughts freely and to have an audience where necessary. unfortunately, the dangers of social media (not to mention criminal activity) are just as significant, and the damage to democracy is catastrophic. indeed, social media is also a platform for hatred of all kinds, for the most complete misinformation and conspiracy theories, and all this most often in complete impunity. the need for legislation is obvious. but our governments are too slow. we can criticize the platform's closure of donald trump's twitter account, but was the solution to leave it open? we must take account of the dangers to democracy. all too often, under the guise of 'democracy', democracy proves weak. i believe it is the duty of democracy to defend itself. my freedom ends where someone else's freedom begins. freedom in a democracy stops where democracy is in danger. the vacuum left by the democratically elected political power is unacceptable. the responsibility cannot be left to the platforms. we have to set limits, legislate, and fast!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, after 30 years in power, president nursultan nazarbayev resigned in march 2019. despite very high expectations, respect for the rule of law, human rights and democracy remains weak. there is the reverse tendency in neighbouring uzbekistan, by the way. president tokayev is personally and directly responsible for the persecution of civil society, mass detentions, the silencing of critics, the harassment of opposition members, and, again on 10 january, unfair and unfree parliamentary elections. i quote high representative borrell. he said ‘systemic shortcomings in relation to freedom of association, assembly and expression continue to restrict the political landscape and the lack of competition left voters without a genuine choice’. kazakhstan and the people of kazakhstan are a partner to the eu, but it’s time that the eu held kazakhstan’s leaders to account. we have the new global human rights sanctions regime. let’s use it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the entry into force on 1 march 2020 of the advanced partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan has not yet brought about the necessary and desired change in the central asian country. the last parliamentary elections in particular are the emblem of an important missed opportunity. it's not enough to just flaunt the form, you need the substance. as the oecd points out, this vote was marked by clear and persistent problems: targeted and politically motivated arrests, a pervasive censorship regime, exclusion of lists and candidates, harassment and threats. if justice is administered through special courts, secret decisions and indefinite pretrial detentions, used only to bend the will and freedom of opinion, to crush the voice of activists, bloggers and journalists, trade unionists, religious and opposition movements, then we have a problem. with the 2019 update of the strategy we have recognised the strategic nature of our relations with regional actors, but no strategic relationship, dear commissioner, can be realised without respect for the rule of law. we have two great tools in our hands: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. if we hesitate to use them when we need to, if we don't give a voice to those who don't have a voice, our voice will lose its meaning as well.
madam president, commissioner, the difficult situation of human rights in kazakhstan is not new. however, it is one of our urgent concerns today because in recent weeks the general situation has deteriorated further, with increased repression of civil society organisations and severe restrictions on freedom of expression. human rights organisations working in kazakhstan have been subject to increasing pressure and sanctions from the authorities, and many journalists are being prosecuted. the european union has a special responsibility not to remain silent in the face of such deviations, and we signed an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan, which entered into force in march last year. the agreement implies that closer economic and political relations between kazakhstan and the european union are based on shared values, and kazakhstan has therefore committed itself to concrete democratic reforms. we in this assembly feel that it is time for kazakhstan to live up to its commitments to the european union.
madam president, as a member and former vice—chair of the delegation on central asia, i am for mutual respect for equal dialogue with kazakhstan. i sharply condemn the violation of rights and freedoms elsewhere in the world, including kazakhstan. this country has a lot to do to put an end to human rights abuses, but we have to fight for freedoms together. the eu, as it is now, is not suitable for the role of a judge for third countries in human rights matters. in my country, latvia, non—citizens, who make up 10% of the population, will have no right to take part in the forthcoming local elections. recently, seven journalists – alla berezovskaya and others – were charged with a criminal offence just for the fact of working for certain media. in neighbouring lithuania, former mp algirdas paleckis is persecuted just for his opinion dissenting from the official one. in spain, former meps oriol junqueras and raül romeva are imprisoned. so i put the following question to my colleagues: do we have the moral right to teach kazakhstan on democracy and the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, while we ourselves behave badly in the very same area?
president, commissioner, the violation of human rights is immoral and leads to the intensification of immigration flows, economic damage and political instability. supporting democratic development and human rights is the rational and moral choice from every standpoint, whether you are of the left or right political persuasion. however, in the case of kazakhstan, i have my doubts about the usefulness and necessity of our financial support. the money involved is the money of the european citizens. so we have to be very careful to see that this is spent well. clear results are neither visible nor to be expected. in light of the recent geopolitical threat from russia, it may not be wise to downplay the relationship. i would therefore ask the commission to consider changing course and to focus on strengthening the position of women in kazakhstan, as this is the only area where any good can be expected.
member of the commission. – madam president, in march 2020 the eu-kazakhstan enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement entered into force, providing us with a framework for advancing cooperation on human rights, the rule of law and with civil society. last november, the eu and kazakhstan had a human rights dialogue within the subcommittee on justice and home affairs. although the pandemic is challenging for governments, the eu recalled that any restrictive measures must be legitimate and proportionate, limited in time, non-discriminatory, transparent and should not hamper the effective exercise and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, or compromise them in the long term. the importance of an independent judiciary, media freedom, freedom of expression and freedom of association and peaceful assembly, zero tolerance to torture and independent monitoring of detention facilities, were also discussed. the eu welcomed the decriminalisation of defamation, the abolition of the death penalty and continued efforts to tackle torture, and improved detention conditions in prisons. we remain concerned about reports that activists, bloggers and journalists are increasingly charged with knowingly disseminating so-called ‘false information’, which can lead to sentences of imprisonment of up to seven years. we are also concerned that the offences of insult and insulting a government representative remain subject to criminal penalty. last week, the eu welcomed the decision of the kazakh authorities to drop all charges against some prominent human rights ngos that had received fines and a suspension of their activity based on unclear legal grounds. the eu encourages the kazakh government to create an enabling environment for civil society to flourish, which is in the best interest of the country on its path to reform. following the parliamentary elections in january, the eu expressed regrets in relation to the limitations on fundamental freedoms, including the detention of peaceful demonstrators, and concerted measures which prevented some domestic election observers from effective observation. it is important that kazakhstan continues to take steps to foster an enabling environment for civil society, human rights defenders, lawyers, trade unionists and journalists. lastly, the high representative welcomes kazakhstan’s follow-up to individual cases raised by the eu. in the framework of our enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, the eu will continue to support kazakhstan in its reform and modernisation efforts.
author. madam president, uganda is in a particularly worrying situation: the presidential and parliamentary elections on 14 january 2021 were held largely without the supervision of international missions, after a pre-election period marred by violence and systematic repression. first of all, we express our condolences and sympathy to the victims. in our resolution, we wish to underline the fundamental importance of free and fair elections and, in this spirit, we commend the ugandan people, especially its youth, for their courage and enthusiasm for democracy throughout this campaign. we strongly condemn the excessive use of force by the police and armed forces and call on the government to end it, as well as to end arbitrary arrests and detentions, to end attacks against political leaders and opposition supporters, including those against bobi wine and members of his party, the nup, to end attacks against human rights defenders and journalists. we ask that there be no impunity and that the perpetrators of violence be brought to justice. finally, we ask that complaints about the elections be dealt with in an independent and transparent manner. i would also like to remind you that it is the responsibility of the ugandan government to take into account all ethnic groups in uganda and that a policy for social peace must be inclusive and truly representative, that a democracy needs an independent civil society, a free and pluralistic media, and that respect for all people is an obligation. we therefore strongly condemn in this resolution the harsh anti-homosexuality laws and call for an urgent revision of the legislation and a strategy to combat discrimination and violence against lgbtqi+ people. while we are gravely concerned by president museveni's anti-european rhetoric and his suspension of the mechanism for democratic governance, we reaffirm the european union's willingness to cooperate with the ugandan authorities in order to contribute to the much-needed democratic reforms in that country.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, when discussing new fiscal measures we must also consider the effects on our economies. we have to continue to attract investment in the eu and ensure that our financial centres remain competitive. money is already flowing to third countries such as hong kong and singapore. of course, maintaining our attractiveness must be done in conjunction with a robust, compliance and transparency rule. this will also help to prevent dirty money being washed through our banking systems by criminals. this proposal enhances cooperation between eu tax authorities. it is another important step forward in our fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. renew europe is striving for a fair tax system. online platforms have been making huge profits, especially during the current pandemic. however, they are not necessarily paying their fair tax share. these new tax transparency rules will help to change this imbalance. accordingly, renew europe supports this proposal. but i have a comment on the process that was followed for this file. a particularly disappointing aspect was that the council apparently did not wish to consider the views of the european parliament. they reached an agreement at the technical level last november, before we, the european parliament, adopted our position. furthermore, they decided on a position that weakens the proposal in certain areas. the principle of sincere cooperation between institutions, and the european parliament’s role in a consultative process, has seemingly been lost. these attempts to bypass procedures entrenched in our treaties must stop.
madam president, to the racists and haters in this room, i just want to say ‘never in my name’ and ‘not in our name’ will you be able to use lgbtiq rights against other people, against muslims or any other european. den här resolutionen handlar om hur vi ska ha det i europa, i våra egna länder, i våra skolor, på våra arbetsplatser och i det offentliga rummet. ska mina barn, med vår regnbågsfamilj, kunna känna sig värdefulla? ska de kunna känna sig välkomna? eller ska de ses som en avvikelse, något som ska bekämpas? ska vi tvinga människor in i garderober, ska vi känna oss rädda och otrygga i det offentliga rummet eller på våra arbetsplatser? nej, det är klart att vi inte ska. mina barn, alla barn, ska känna sig trygga och värdefulla. alla ska känna sig trygga i det offentliga rummet och på sina arbetsplatser. det är det här resolutionen handlar om, inte om att någon ska gå rädd och otrygg. det här handlar om att skicka en signal om att snarare än hbtq-fria zoner så vill vi ha en frihetzon.
madam president, this is about the inherent dignity of every human being. it's about respect, the respect we owe to every human being. you can't imagine how much it costs me to talk about lgbtiq people, because if this acronym exists, it's because people, because of their sexuality, their identity, have been excluded, deprived of rights and even destroyed, simply because they are what they are. this is simply inexcusable. our post-war societies were built on the will to build on human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is simply unacceptable to single out a human being in terms of what defines him as a person in order to exclude him, or even deny him at times. and this, by the way, whether it's for your sexual orientation, your identity, your skin color, any physical characteristic, your beliefs, your nationality, it doesn't matter. we must protect those who suffer. we must educate those who act in ignorance. we must fight and, if necessary, prosecute and punish those who, in charge of social or political responsibilities, act against lgbtiq people. this is the sense in which the european parliament wanted this resolution, declaring the european union a place of freedom for lgbtiq people. today, with the awareness that nothing is ever acquired and that all our achievements in the field of human rights are still and always to be defended, i believe that we can be proud of the union we are building, the rights we affirm in this declaration for ourselves, our young people and our children.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the democratic republic of congo, and to provide information on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. the security of international diplomats must be ensured so that such situations do not recur. violence in the democratic republic of the congo, particularly in the eastern region, claimed more than 2,000 victims in 2020 alone. we see systematic violations of human rights and attacks on women are a constant. it is a country rich in natural resources, but one of the poorest in africa, and it has cost the lives of thousands of people in the region where these resources are extracted. we therefore call for a thorough, transparent and independent investigation into the events that killed the italian ambassador and his team. we also call for the eu-africa partnership to be based on cooperation and condemnation of the serious human rights violations in the congo. the european union cannot tolerate these violations, especially as regards the extraction of raw materials by economic operators.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on the morning of 22 february, we were all shocked by the news of the horrible death of italian ambassador attanasio, carabiniere iacovacci, and their driver moustapha milambo. last week a local attorney, william hassani, lost his life on that exact same road. i express my deepest condolences to the relatives of these victims. these murders have shed a clear light on the continued instability and insecurity in the eastern province of the democratic republic of congo. the region is known for its armed groups and intercommunal violence, which deteriorates the humanitarian situation. a true investigation into these events is needed and should lead to a re-evaluation of the safety measures in un but also eu missions. how did the route of the convoy receive security clearance, and why are humanitarian workers in this area not better protected? humanitarian aid workers often operate on the front lines of conflict areas. many of them are exposed to acts of violence on a daily basis. we can convey our gratitude for their work by providing appropriate security. as the former un secretary-general kofi annan said, the human family will not enjoy development without security, will not enjoy security without development, and will not enjoy either without respect for human rights. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, we are here today to pay heartfelt tribute to the italian ambassador to the democratic republic of congo, to his entourage and to all those who, like them, and there are many, have died in this country in the face of the passivity of a large part of the international community and also of the congolese authorities. it is essential that an independent and transparent investigation into the circumstances of the mass murder be carried out immediately. i call on the congolese government and the provincial authorities to cooperate with the italian authorities and the united nations in this process. the government of the democratic republic of the congo shall have primary responsibility for the security of its territory and the protection of its population, with respect for the rule of law and human rights. the resolution we are debating today identifies the economic and political reasons which create a context of profound humanitarian and social crisis in the congo. in order to prevent the recurrence of incidents such as those we are condemning here today, it is essential that the government takes a responsible and active stance in creating a functioning justice and police system, which promotes the disarmament and integration of militias into the civil life of the country and which respects the fundamental rights of its citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the face of the tragedy that has struck the italian ambassador luca attanasio, the carabiniere vittorio iacovacci and their driver mustapha milambo, we have a double duty: the european union is determined to establish the truth and to take responsibility for what has happened and to make a solemn pledge to create the conditions for the democratic republic of congo, the scene of this tragedy and of constant violations of human rights, kidnappings and the killing of civilians by rebel groups, to embark on a path of peace. the vast natural resources of which the country is rich and which the whole world is hungry for are not opportunities for growth and prosperity for the congolese people, but a source of violence and exploitation. in the last parliamentary term this parliament passed a major regulation on minerals from conflict zones, an essential tool in combating the financing of armed groups and forced labour. a path has been traced, but it is not yet sufficient. to honor luca, vittorio, mustafa, we can only continue even more determined in this direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the democratic republic of congo, a former british colony, has experienced authoritarian rule and economic inefficiency for the past 60 years. it's been the site of armed conflict and subsequent civil wars. since independence, secessions, uprisings, rebellions, pain, rebellions, invasions, revolts, and ethnic wars have become part of the political landscape and have claimed millions of lives. the situation in the congo is tense. at least 850 people were killed last year in attacks blamed on the most violent and active rebel group allied to the democratic forces. these wars, the bloodshed, the brutality against the civilian population must end. we therefore call on the congolese authorities to cooperate fully and constructively in the investigation into the murder of the italian ambassador luca attanassi and his companions.
i would like to make one correction to the previous speech, namely that the democratic republic of congo is, of course, a former belgian colony and not a former british colony.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, diamonds, uranium, gold, but above all coltan - a mixture of columbite and tantalum - are very precious and strategic minerals. this is the democratic republic of congo, one of the richest resource countries in the world, and at the same time the poorest of all, with a per capita gdp of $475. the profits generated by these materials go up to 98% to international groups, the rest feeds the armed gangs operating in the country, there are more than 120 in north kivu alone, where they have almost complete control of the territory. it is in this context that ambassador luca attanasio and carabiniere vittorio iacovacci, with their driver mustafa milambo, were killed. this is a fate that is shocking and painful but not surprising, considering that last year alone there were more than two thousand victims. ladies and gentlemen, without security there is no economic development and vice versa, and that is why we must step up our support for the democratic republic of congo in the reform of these sectors. at the same time, we must monitor the conflict minerals legislation closely and be ready to extend and strengthen it further so that the blessing of a rich land does not become a bargain for a few, but above all a condemnation and a disgrace for many.
madam president, we are deeply shocked by the assassinations of the italian ambassador to the democratic republic of congo, luca attanasio, and those who accompanied him. our thoughts are with their families. this tragedy highlights the deteriorating security situation in the country. rebel groups in pursuit of control of natural resources are responsible for kidnappings, assassinations, torture, sexual violence, with women and children being the main targets among civilians. this situation of distress has caused a large number of people to flee their homes, with the united nations reporting 67,000 displaced persons. a catastrophic humanitarian situation, with humanitarian aid almost impossible. all this while the un report, published in 2010, remains largely ineffective, as the recommendations have not been implemented. impunity is all the more serious as it bears a share of responsibility for the continuation of atrocities. hence our urgent call in this resolution for investigations to be carried out, for the perpetrators to be prosecuted, for both the drc and international justice to play their part and for the european union to use its sanctions mechanism.
mr president, corruption unlawfully makes vulnerable the member states and the union as a whole. it is a continuing threat to the rule of law and security, has huge costs, limits press freedom, discourages integrity alerts, deepens conflicts in society and fuels extremism. the murder of the maltese journalist cannot go unpunished. the resolution must contain a strong message against corruption and organised crime. the free press and investigative journalists need to know that they are supported and protected. judicial cooperation is essential, the european public prosecutor's office must start work urgently, despite those who still oppose it. corruption is a hindrance to progress and prosperity. as a romanian jurist, i know, unfortunately, that too well. i ask you to stand united against the corrupt who violate the fundamental rights and values of the european family. we can and must eliminate corruption in europe to be strong together.
mr president, independent journalism, investigative journalism that brings us the facts, the truth, is indispensable journalism. no democracy can survive without the truth being known. truth is the weapon of justice. we can't do without the truth. we must be imbued with daphne caruana galizia's character, with her thirst to disclose the truth at any cost, which she paid with her life. we must also be aware of the personalities of these powerful, these criminals, who have committed and ordered this heinous crime. it is inconceivable that groups at the centre of the european political scene, despite the recent revelations in malta, have refused to discuss it here and now. today is the day when daphne caruana galizia should be mentioned in this plenary. it is a pity that this was not obvious to everyone at the assembly. the maltese deserve better, the europeans deserve better. we must honor, support and better protect our investigative journalists. we cannot accept that they are so exposed, and we certainly cannot accept that our own laws are used to silence them. more and more of them are being involved in lawsuits that are not consistent with the purpose of simply bringing them to personal bankruptcy. daphne was too. creating a legal framework that prevents this and better protects our journalists is absolutely necessary for them and for our democracies. we owe it to daphne and all those who sacrifice themselves.
madam president, the european covid-19 certificate will allow europeans to regain the freedom to travel in europe and thus a part of the normalcy that they have been largely deprived of. we talk a lot, in the context of the certificate, about the tourism sector and it is necessary to talk about it, because with the difficulties of the industry, it is the very existence of many people that is at risk. this sector, more than any other, is characterised by a large number of precarious and seasonal jobs, small jobs dependent on the tourist season and essential for countless people to survive the rest of the year in a decent way. but this pandemic has also separated families for months, more than a year now that parents and children have not seen each other. it's not the world we're used to, and it's unsettling. this certificate will help to reunite and ensure the financial survival of a very large number of small businesses, self-employed and seasonal workers. now the countries have to play along. it would be unacceptable that countries continue to require additional testing or quarantines beyond the certificate. the only acceptable restrictions will be those imposed on the residents themselves in their daily lives. this certificate is an excellent european tool which has managed to combine all the constraints in order not to be discriminatory. it will therefore be free of charge and treat equally those who have been vaccinated as those who are immunised and those who can present a recent negative test. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. once again, the member states must play their part, make good use of this certificate and do everything possible to ensure that it can be used as soon as possible.
madam president, the exchange of views on fundamental rights, is of the utmost importance. setting up the fundamental rights agency was an important milestone in this regard. now, if we want to further strengthen this agency we need to do this with great caution. guarantees are needed to ensure that it will remain impartial and disconnected from the political battlefield. i am therefore concerned that the propositions in this report will increasingly create a political actor from this agency. unfortunately, we have seen it over the past few years, how debates on supposedly fundamental rights have often been turned into shallow political attacks. the european parliament should accept that the agency can only remain credible if it is not used by any of the political forces in this house to push their own ideological agenda. for this, the agency should remain always impartial. it should respect national competences, treat member states on an equal footing, avoid double standards and work only with reliable sources. fundamental rights should bring member states together, instead of dividing them.
madam president, commissioner, defending our fundamental rights, which are enshrined in our charter of the european union, means defending human rights, democracy and the rule of law. democracy and the rule of law enable people to live in society under laws that recognize the dignity of each person, laws that reject the rule of the strongest and corruption, laws that affirm freedom of expression, the right to information and equal justice for all. all this, of course, in the reality of our societies, is an ideal to be achieved, but it is our measure. we are striving to get as close as possible to it and to achieve it. one of our instruments for improving ourselves and avoiding divergences within the union is our fundamental rights agency. it should be obvious to every member state that the agency should be able to do its job as a guardian of fundamental rights to the best of its ability, because the agency should be seen as a support to avoid or eliminate anything that could endanger fundamental rights in our country. if we do not give the agency the means to do its job, we prevent it from doing the necessary monitoring and control, and we prevent it from providing parliament with the data necessary for us to do our job. yes, control is necessary. the trends in hate speech towards jews and people of different sexual orientations are more than disturbing. the violations of the rule of law in some eu countries and of the independence of the judiciary and the media are unacceptable. all violations of fundamental rights must be brought to an end. let us give the agency the means it needs.
mr president, commissioner, it is a good thing that we have succeeded in establishing a common certificate for citizens in europe to move more freely by 1 july throughout the european union. we can now have such a certificate because the vaccination campaign in europe has progressed well, and especially because the people most vulnerable to this virus have all had, in principle, this possibility - even if it is true that the pandemic is far from being controlled, that new variants appear every day, that in some places clusters develop and can justify different treatment for a city, a region. what was unacceptable was that european citizens were prevented from crossing a border within the schengen area simply by national reflex. if it's a specific treatment for a particularly affected area, it makes sense. closing a border crossing when the health situation is the same on both sides is a breach of the european acquis. today, it makes sense that a person who is vaccinated or has had the disease or has recently tested negative can find some, real freedom of movement in the union. so now, having succeeded in setting up the european covid-19 certificate is certainly a good thing.
the european union was founded on principles and values and its distinguishing feature, which we are proud of, from all the member states and other organisations, is that it defends these principles and values and is based on the rule of law. it is inconceivable and unacceptable that a member state of the european union should violate these principles and values; it is tantamount to abolishing the european union. the european taxpayers would never accept a single euro going to countries which violate the principles of the european union. but these principles are not only being violated within the european union. here we have a country with a privileged relationship with the european union, to which the european taxpayer's euros go and which is the definition of a violation of the principles and values of the european union, and of european and international law. this country is turkey. if the european taxpayers are asked whether there should be any funding for this country, the answer will be a resounding no and i must, from this stage today, condemn once again turkey, which is provocatively violating the principles and values of international and european law, violating european parliament resolutions on famagusta, and opening up the coastal zone of famagusta, violating the human rights of thousands of refugees from cyprus and european citizens, the famagustais, my city, the city of famagusta. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that there are two essential issues in this debate. the first: a member state which does not respect the basic rules of a democratic system, violating fundamental rights and the rule of law, should not benefit from european funds. it would be a serious political mistake and would also be a financial blow to the union's coffers, because it would indirectly allow certain governments to erode the common european values through the use of community resources. secondly: the european union, if it wants the principles of democracy to be respected by its member states, cannot grant any derogation from the applicability of its own regulations, especially - and there is irony in this - if they are about respect for the rule of law. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the compensation for the costs of the measures. we do not accept any delaying guidelines and we are prepared to take legal action against the commission if it does not comply with its obligations under the treaties.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your work. it's not like me to be loud when i talk. i do not think that this is appropriate in politics, but there are certain occasions where it may be appropriate, and it is right now. there is reason to be a little loud when we are going to talk about this subject. it can be said very clearly: the eu's new rule of law mechanism must never become a desk exercise, and it is in danger of becoming one now. we have a historic opportunity to take a stand against those countries which do not live up to the rules, which are not part of the community. and it is the future of the union that is at stake, nothing less. if we are to maintain the legitimacy of the european union and the citizens' faith in it, we must take the bull by the horns. the commission must therefore live up to its commitment. we must start by using the rule of law mechanism against those member states which break the rules, otherwise the commission is failing in its responsibility. and it is better that action be taken now than tomorrow. i have no illusions that it will be easy. it's going to be a house-to-house fight, we know that. but this fight has to be fought now. it is the future of the union that is at stake.
mr president, the credibility of the european union is at stake. it's about the rule of law. it is a question of citizens' confidence in the european union and even their confidence in the judiciary. governments in our union are setting up systems which flout democracy, judicial systems which are losing their independence, media landscapes which are absorbed by power, and a sprawling corruption which enriches those in power and their friends. it is the money of european citizens that often fills their pockets. i am ashamed to read in the new york times that there are countries in our union which can no longer be truly described as democracies, but i also know that we have given ourselves the legislative means to remedy this: cutting european funds to countries which go against the rule of law is one of those means. it is now up to the commission to be transparent and implement it. i have confidence in the european institutions, as do many citizens of the union. the challenge today is enormous. the conditionality mechanism in force since 1 january must, as parliament has requested, be applied as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, the rule of law is one of the foundations of our democracies. respect for it in the european union is not an option, it is an absolute necessity. the first annual report on the rule of law in the union is therefore of paramount importance. what credibility do we have when we talk about the undermining of democracy in the world, if we are not able to keep our own house in order? but above all, we cannot allow, if we want to continue to be democracies, serious violations of the rule of law. respect for the rule of law includes an independent and equal justice for all. it includes freedom of speech and of the press. the commission's report shows that the situation of journalists in the european union is far from what it should be, that the independence of the judiciary is not guaranteed in hungary or poland. and other countries also need to make progress in fighting corruption. a report is necessary, but not sufficient. moreover, the commission must now indicate the actions to be taken by the countries concerned and the consequences for those for whom the distortions are clearly part of an institutionalised system. that is also why we have asked for an interinstitutional monitoring mechanism, in connection with budgetary conditionality.
madam president, one of the peculiarities of the global human rights sanctions regime, our magnitsky act, is that it directly targets persons and entities responsible for human rights violations. unlike other sanctions, for example economic sanctions, individual sanctions against those responsible do not have an impact on the population and can therefore be applied without hesitation. now, if the european union really wants to be effective, it must, first, widen the scope of the sanctions regime by adding corruption; secondly, to move to qualified majority voting for the application of the scheme; and thirdly, the european union must act in concert with the other democracies of the world when it imposes its sanctions. indeed, as regards corruption, it is a scourge that undermines the rule of law and democracy, and allows human rights violations to go unpunished. we must fight corruption which puts the powerful above the law. as for qualified majority voting, it must become a matter of course for the application of the european global sanctions regime. it is inconceivable that one or two countries can prevent the european union from taking decisions in this area. finally, we will only be fully effective if we act in concert with other democracies. these powerful people, guilty of human rights violations, often enjoy property and bank accounts in the free space of so-called western democracies. if we all work together to close our borders and freeze their assets, i am convinced that our global sanctions mechanisms will not only be tools to fight impunity, but will also have a real deterrent effect.
mr. chairman, please! once again, the european parliament is breaking the rule of law, because according to article 5 of the treaty the union acts only within the limits of the competences conferred on it by the member states, and according to article 4 of the treaty the union respects the national identity of the member states, and therefore the right to decide on education, child protection, legislation. the hungarian law adopted by the parliament is enshrined not only in eu law but also in international law. unfortunately, the left-liberal majority in the european parliament even wants to interfere with the hungarian constitution, questioning the obvious provision that confirms that a woman is a mother and a man is a father. the left-wing aggressive social engineering you're pushing is a civilization threat. that's why i'm calling for the support of the ecr resolution, which restores order to things and has nothing to do with homophobia. don't try to pin your negative emotions on us.
mr. president, the left and 68% of the epp! you have turned this parliament into a court of last resort. the title of the debate has already been prefaced by the judgment that hungary has violated eu law, even though we are at the very beginning of the infringement procedure. you want to withdraw eu funds from hungary through the rule of law mechanism. what we said has been done: you are violating eu law, threatening to do so in a matter of national competence. you use the hungarian debate as a pretext to distract from the pressing issues facing europe, such as the covid crisis or migration. the hysteria you've created shows that you're nervous. they're nervous because last friday it became clearer than ever that there is a viable alternative on the right. 16 parties from 15 countries are ready to stand up to you and stand up for freedom, nations, families and traditional christian values. get used to it, europe is not just yours, it's ours. we don't want to tell you how to raise your children. but you don't tell us how to behave and how to live.
mr president, with this resolution, the european parliament unequivocally and in the clearest terms condemns the law recently adopted by the hungarian parliament restricting the rights and freedoms of lgbtqi+ people, and also, in doing so, freedom of expression and freedom of the media. this law is a clear attack on the values, principles and laws of the european union. i am convinced that a very large majority of people in the european union are aware that what is at stake is the protection of the inherent dignity of every human being, the freedom of every person to express himself as he is, the respect due to every human being. it is one of the values, if not the fundamental value, on which our union is founded: the inner conviction that we are all equal, regardless of our sexual orientation, our religion, the colour of our skin, the colour of our eyes, whether we are red or blond, black or white, small or tall, young or old, whether we wear glasses or not, whether we have an apparent disability or not, whether we consider ourselves normal or different. no discrimination is justifiable. it's as simple as that. i am therefore proud that we have a commission president who has not hesitated to call this law a disgrace and that our epp group president, manfred weber, has taken up this point today in the same forum. the european union has repeatedly affirmed the rights of lgbtqi people and declared its fight against discrimination against them. now we must have concrete consequences for our words, intentions, decisions and actions. we must enforce european law within the union.
president. - mr borrell, for years the afghan corruption has been supported in the hope of democratic development. a lot of money was thought to solve the lack of democracy, but it degenerated into a kleptocracy. this was an expensive lesson. democracy is a special plant and it doesn't grow everywhere. now we are faced with a problem that the eu has partly created itself: a refugee problem similar to that of 2015. the urgent question is whether and how many refugees we want to take in. but the eu is not concerned about that. it is for each member state to decide. the protection of the eu's external borders is a common problem which the eu must now address. the eu has limited time and resources. let us therefore use it wisely and economically. the eu cannot and should not interfere in everything. it's time for a practical and professional approach.
madam president, afghanistan has made tremendous progress in the last 20 years in the area of women's and girls' rights: education, health, participation in civic and political life. i will never accept the claim of some that these efforts have been in vain. today, development aid must be linked to the rights of women and girls, among other things. the actions of the taliban say something different than their official discourse. but it's only actions that count. afghanistan was and remains a country dependent on humanitarian aid. that must be a concern. this is why a link with the regime in place is essential. similarly, this link is necessary to allow the evacuation of those we wanted to evacuate and who are still stuck in afghanistan. the european union has not been able to do what it wanted to do, to do what it had to do, because of lack of resources. in the face of this impotence, it is high time that the european union woke up and gave itself the means to defend its ambitions. when you're dependent, you're not sovereign. no single european nation has the means to play a truly decisive role on this world stage. only a common foreign policy and common defence forces ready to intervene will enable us to decide and act and restore our credibility.
in writing. the state of the union address we heard was quite a global emphasis: pandemic, climate change, biodiversity, security. all of this requires international cooperation and a stronger european union. we must succeed in strengthening the eu's capacity to act and to respond to the challenges we face. this must be done together, on the basis of the union's fundamental values. democracy, freedom and the rule of law must be guaranteed in all eu member states. i am pleased that the president placed a strong emphasis on young people in his speech, because it is essential to make young people's voices heard in order to meet the challenges of the future. the withdrawal of western troops from afghanistan and the rise of the taliban have been a wake-up call for the european union. the eu was not able to take independent decisions on the evacuation operation and was largely dependent on us support. the need for closer defence cooperation is becoming more and more evident now that the much-vaunted lack of strategic autonomy of the union has been demonstrated in concrete terms. i think that the commission's proposal for closer eu defence cooperation, particularly in the areas of intelligence and cyber security, is necessary. we need to find faster and more efficient ways of doing things. in particular, we need to make swift decisions on refugee policy and finally establish a common, effective system for refugees throughout the european union. it is time to go back to the roots of the union's activities and look for ways of ensuring that the member states can trust each other and are able to work more closely together. i missed the opening up of europe's competitiveness and the creation of new jobs. smes are key players in this respect. i hope that the commission will take concrete steps as soon as possible towards better regulation which genuinely takes account of the needs of smes.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear commissioner gentiloni and dear colleagues, first of all we are discussing today the first implementation report of the european parliament ever done in the area of economic and monetary policy. our implementation report deals with the important implementation of eu rules when it comes to the exchange of tax information between member states. faced with hundreds of billions of taxes lost through international tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud, this is a topic of high interest to the citizens, who of course would like to see tax justice and fair competition in our common market. i would like to thank warmly all the colleagues from the different political groups who have been contributing to that important work over much more than a year. however, our work to assess the effectiveness of the first four directives on administrative cooperation and tax matters was hampered by the refusal of the member states, with the notable exception of sweden and finland, to provide access to the documents needed for our work. the european commission, too, interpreted eu law in a very narrow way, which is unfriendly to parliament’s work and refused also access to information available to the commission, which would have been available very likely to citizens if they went to court. i would therefore like to recall that according to the european treaties, the european parliament has the right and the responsibility to control the commission in its work, and therefore needs the respective information. nevertheless, we were able to gain significant insights based on publicly available information, studies and accounts provided by several whistle-blowers. i would also like to highlight the report by the european court of auditors and the study commissioned by the european parliament’s research service, which significantly helped us to identify areas for improvement. thank you to all those who contributed. eleven years ago, the first directive on administrative cooperation in tax matters laid the groundwork for tax administrations to support each other in the fight against tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud across europe. with each of six extensions, important categories of tax-relevant data were included step by step under the directive. this is great progress, however still unfinished, but this progress in european tax law has not been matched with equal ambition when it comes to the effective implementation of these rules in the member states. while 16 member states have implemented the rules for the automatic exchange of tax information within the eu sufficiently, we found shortcomings in 10 member states, namely belgium, croatia, the czech republic, estonia, germany, hungary, latvia, the netherlands, poland and the slovak republic. most worryingly, romania does not have the legal framework in place, which is a prerequisite for the automatic exchange of tax information. similarly, reviews of the measures taken by the member states to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing reveal worrying deficiencies with direct effect on the effective information exchange on tax matters. of the 18 member states reviewed, none of them received a rating indicating a high level of effectiveness. this indicates a clear lack of effective implementation of the measures needed to prevent financial crime. despite these internationally documented shortcomings in the implementation of eu law, the commission has not opened a single case of treaty violation because of the lack of effective implementation of tax information exchange. equally, we found a lack of access to tax-relevant information when it comes to assets and incomes from real estate companies and other types of assets. these asset classes should be included as soon as possible in the upcoming revision of directive no 8. in her state of the union address earlier today, commission president ursula von der leyen committed to fighting tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud. therefore, i’m asking commissioner gentiloni: you have previously confirmed to us you may open infringement proceedings in the area of tax cooperation whenever needed. considering the deficiencies identified in many member states in my report, when will the commission take action? and will you strengthen the directive on tax administration as parliament proposes in your eighth revision? thank you very much to all of you who contributed and for listening to me.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, we would like to thank the european parliament and the rapporteur, sven giegold, for the report on the implementation of the dac. the report contains a number of recommendations on relevant points relating to the scope of the directive, the monitoring of its implementation, the quality of the data exchange and the actual use of it by member states. on most of the points raised, the commission can agree that, in principle, they would improve the existing framework. some of the points will, most likely, be covered in the next amendment to the directive, the so-called dac 8, for which a proposal is expected in the first quarter of next year. dac 8 is intended to cover the reporting and exchange of information on crypto assets and e-money. it will take into account the progress made on the regulation of the market for crypto assets in the eu, as well as the parallel work on reporting and exchange of information. dac 8 will also seek to ensure more coherence across the eu, as regards penalties and other compliance measures. our intention is also to include further amendments to the scope of the directive close to those recommended in your report, in order to strengthen the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion. we agree on the importance of improving the relevance and comprehensiveness of the scope. over the years, the number of categories of income covered by the directive has been gradually increased. at the same time, we need to consider the availability of information and allow member states to adjust to new requirements. we also agree that it would be useful to consider expanding the scope of the exchange of information on rulings and advance pricing agreements to include, for instance, rulings concerning individuals. the proposal to add additional reporting obligation for financial institutions to report information on the ultimate beneficial owner of the account would be useful. such a significant amendment requires, of course, a wider analysis of the due diligence and reporting rules for financial institutions. the commission is also working intensively on transposition control of anti-money laundering directives four and five, and on ensuring timely creation of national beneficial ownership registers and their crossborder interconnection. the report also highlights the need to improve the monitoring of the implementation of the directive. we agree that this is an important point. apart from the monitoring of legislative transposition, the commission is checking the application in an annual survey. the survey is constantly adapted to the evolving needs and serves as a basis for decisions on which further actions to take. and this is, of course, following also the call of honourable giegold before. on a more general point, the commission very much agrees that the access to the requested documents on the implementation of the directive would have been important for the parliament’s work. as you know, my services have done their utmost, within the legal constraints imposed by the framework agreement on relations between the parliament and commission, to support your request in this context. we were bound by the framework agreement – the interpretation we gave of the framework agreement – to ask for the member states’ consent for those documents that belong to them. that being said, we will certainly continue as we have done until now to entirely support the european parliament in its work and to reiterate the request. we are very grateful to you for all your support to the commission in the fight against tax fraud, evasion and avoidance.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the programme. i would like to thank the rapporteur in advance for the work he has done. the concept of cooperation between administrative authorities in the field of direct taxation, the automatic exchange of information, that's a paper, okay. but it's a real pain in the ass. too often, people or companies evade their tax obligations or even launder money. and that's hurting our economy and our society tremendously. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we have to take that from the rich individuals and corporations who just don't pay taxes. how do you do that? at present, tax avoidance is relatively easy because we do not have a uniform eu-wide direct taxation in our union, and this is where the cooperation of the administrative authorities comes into play. the directive on cooperation between administrative authorities in the field of direct taxation is the key foundation for combating tax evasion. in our report we confirmed the importance of this directive, but also stated: 18 member states have implemented them only insufficiently 18! so exactly two-thirds. this is a naked position of the member states. what's missing? the directive is a multi-piece puzzle, but there are missing pieces of the puzzle, namely data. and without data, tax fraud cannot be traced. and so the commission has to ensure that the exchange and quality of the data is guaranteed. and that would be relatively easy. because we in the european parliament have found that the deficiencies in data quality are due to outdated technologies or insufficient staffing in the national authorities. and we cannot accept that. the european union must set a good example for the world. i firmly believe that we can do this. all it takes is political will. and besides, tax competition between states is always harmful. we must work together to put a stop to this massive tax evasion.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, tax authorities in the eu have agreed to cooperate closely together in order to apply tax correctly and prevent tax evasion and tax fraud. this is to prevent dirty money being washed through the eu and to ensure that everyone pays their fair share of tax, so this report assesses how well member states have applied regulations to exchange information. the feedback has generally been positive, but improvements can be made. however, in order for an implementation report to be accurate, we need facts and figures. accordingly, my colleagues and i requested relevant information from the european commission, and i am sad to inform you that several member states objected to our request. again, the council seemingly does not want to cooperate with the european parliament. previously, i highlighted that the council prematurely made decisions before we as parliament had adopted our position, and now they are denying access to pertinent documents needed for us to exercise our function of political control. my message to the council is clear: stop trying to bypass procedures enshrined in our treaties. stop trying to hinder our work. we need greater transparency in the council.
mr president, poland has been closely linked since my youth to the aspirations for justice, freedom and democracy which the polish people had expressed through the solidarność movement. having poland in the european union, like other countries, was, and is, for me, redressing an injustice in history. it is therefore sad that today, in view of the actions of the authorities in power, the situation of the press and the rule of law in poland is on the agenda of parliament. the independence and justice undermined, the disciplinary regime against judges that is contrary to european law, the refusal to accept the primacy of european law: all this is unacceptable. the control of the media, the laws that seek to silence independent journalism that is critical of the government, is unacceptable. this is unacceptable, because it erodes the very foundations of our democracies. without equal and independent justice for all, justice cannot be sustainable. without genuine press freedom and access to credible information, a democracy cannot be viable. the scale of the violations of the rule of law and our fundamental values - because i also have to mention the intolerable violations of the rights of lgbqti people - means that in poland, the threats to the rule of law are systemic. i therefore welcome the fact that the president of the commission has today made clear announcements in defence of our values: a media law will be presented next year, the european budget will be protected in relation to respect for the rule of law. these are the demands of parliament and the aim of this resolution: to strive to offer all european citizens a society in which the democratic foundations are guaranteed.
mr president, commissioner, in belarus, more than a year after the elections that do not deserve the name, the authorities of alexander lukashenko continue the repression against the population, the organisations and the journalists who dare to mark their peaceful opposition. prisons, unfair trials, ill-treatment, torture, disappearances, deaths - these cannot be covered by the veil of time or by habit. we have promised the belarusian people that the european parliament will not let their unjust situation fall into oblivion. we must continue to denounce the repression in belarus, just as we must denounce lukashenko's exploitation of migrants, whose sole purpose is to destabilise the european union. using human beings, destroying human destinies for the purpose of political coercion is simply despicable. it is imperative that the european union stands united in saying that this is unacceptable and in condemning this hybrid attack. the european union must also, in this context, determine the role played by russia in all the belarusian hybrid attacks against the union and the union must react to them together.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than thirty years since the dangers of asbestos fibre, the 'killer fibre', were discovered, and i think it is unacceptable in a modern europe, in a modern country, to see tens and tens of thousands of people dying, precisely from asbestos or from asbestos-sick citizens. and also because we know very well that we are a horrible disease and an equally horrible death. as has been done, and rightly so, with covid, we must now remove once and for all the drama of asbestos fibres, which also have a social cost. you think about how much we spend on the health of people with asbestos cancer, 50 billion euros every year is spent in europe. so, taking these resources to do prevention, to do monitoring, to do surveillance, to do asbestos removal and to do assistance to victims and asbestos workers and their families, financial assistance and legal assistance, becomes critical. so we use european resources to leverage the system, including italian, to remove asbestos. welcome action against the seismic aspect. let's hear it for the ecobonus theme. asbestos reduction is also important.
member of the commission. mr president, it is not often that there is such a consensus in this house. no speaker minimized or downplayed the danger that many are facing and that many have run at the cost of their lives. this is an important day for you, mr rapporteur, and for all those who have worked on this report, and for all those who have committed themselves to this undertaking, and i thank you for it. and this report will be important because you have, if necessary, revealed the dangers of asbestos and the negligence, let us say, which has prevailed in the handling of this extremely dangerous material. your report will be dated, it will be used, it will be referred to and a whole range of policies will be implemented within the limits, of course, of our powers. but what will be important is the work of informing the member states first, and also all those who are faced with this problem: trade unions, companies, doctors. all of these must help us to fight this scourge effectively. i thank you again for this debate and i make a very clear commitment here to you that your report will be followed up on a permanent basis and that i will be ready to come to you at any time to give an account.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 october 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the harmfulness of asbestos has been known for many years asbestos is one of the most common carcinogens in the environment. the greatest risks of inhalation of asbestos fibres occur during the handling of asbestos minerals and during the crushing and processing of asbestos-cement products. despite the fact that asbestos has been banned in the eu since 2005, it is still present in many buildings and infrastructure elements built before the ban, thus putting many people at risk of health and life. asbestos dust can cause the following diseases: asbestos dust (asbestosis), lung lesions, lung and intermembrane cancers, and obstructive chronic bronchitis. workers working with asbestos should be protected and waste disposed of properly. we must protect workers from the health hazards of asbestos.
the agenda includes the report by monica semedo, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the situation of artists and cultural recovery in the european union (2020/2261 (ini)) (a9-0283/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, the cultural and creative sector was one of the hardest hit by the covid pandemic. due to the closure of venues, exhibition halls, festivals and the cancellation of live performances, the sector experienced losses in turnover of over 30% in the year 2020. culture is a major economic factor for the eu, representing 4.4% of eu gdp and employing 7.6 million people. but culture is not only about economic terms. it has a substantial social impact contributing to democratic, sustainable, free and inclusive societies and reflecting and strengthening our european diversity, values, history, freedoms and way of life. culture touches the lives of eu citizens. i am therefore proud to stand here today as the rapporteur to present the report on the situation of artists and the cultural recovery in the eu, with which we support artists and cultural workers throughout the european union. due to my personal experience as a former performer, i can confirm that many artists already struggled before covid-19 happened. for many cultural and creative professionals it was necessary to have a second income in order to guarantee a certain degree of social security and stability. and to the insecurity of income it adds difficulties to combine family life and career due to unstable working hours and rapidly changing work environments. imagine having all these worries and yet you still need to find enough time to be creative! this is why this report is not only about recovery itself. it is to give greater security to those affected. with this report we, as the european parliament, call upon the commission and the member states to act. we ask for access to unemployment allowance, health care and pensions. and we urge member states and the commission to take specific measures to tackle unstable income, unpaid work and job insecurity, and to safeguard a minimum standard of income for artists and cultural professionals. we also need to avoid bureaucratic burdens such as work permits or permits for holding festivals, and we have to avoid double taxation for cultural workers acting across borders. especially artists from smaller member states face problems due to the fact that their domestic market is small and that can hinder their professional growth. we therefore call upon the member states to establish at least one mobility and information point to offer free and tailored support. furthermore, we call upon the commission to define the status of an artist in the eu, to explore possibilities of mutual recognition, and even a european framework for governing the status of artists, to ensure that artists can benefit from their rights derived from that status throughout the entire european union. but a safety net is not all. artists often have the talent but they lack the skills to transform their ideas into financial success. therefore, they should also have access to training in entrepreneurial skills which will help them to transform their creativity into a reliable source of income. finally, the sector also faces other problems. while many women work in the sector, very few women are in decision-making positions and discrimination against women persists. lgbtiq+ and artists from minority groups are more likely to be the targets of attacks or subject to restrictions. in this report we made sure that artists in the eu are better protected against political repression and all forms of discrimination, because the freedom of artistic expression is a core value of the eu and must continue to be guaranteed. with this report, we have taken a big leap forward and i am proud to continue the work that we have started last year in september with our resolution on the cultural recovery of europe. i want to thank my fellow rapporteurs for their good cooperation and the strong compromises we have reached, so thank you for that. i also want to thank my colleagues from the cultural creators friendship group with which i have tabled several amendments across party lines thus demonstrating that when it comes to the protection of artists, authors and performers, this house stands together as one. and therefore, i hope for your support in the vote. so to all the artists, authors, performers and cultural professionals: you have the support of the european parliament so please continue to entertain, amaze and inspire us.
mr. chairman, please! mr president, prime minister, i have to tell you something. polish entrepreneurs are waiting for funds from the reconstruction fund, local governments are waiting for these funds, the health service is waiting for these funds, which is so badly affected in all countries and in our country. these measures, mr prime minister, are not blocked by the european commission, by parliament, by the court of justice of the european union. unfortunately, these measures are being blocked by your government's dark game, a game designed to change the union without changing the treaties so that it can be made to choose what it wants from its principles and rights. you just want to rule without the oversight of an independent, independent judiciary. it is a violation of the principles and foundations of the european union. the european union, which gives us security and so dynamic development. never before has poland been so dynamically developing and never before has it been so secure. mr prime minister, i am not a lawyer, and neither are you, but we both know very well, contrary to what you said here today, that no national constitutional tribunal has ever challenged the treaty on european union or the accession treaty. and at your request, the so-called constitutional court, composed of political nominees, has done just that. by not respecting european law, you are not respecting ordinary people, you are not respecting your fellow citizens. but until then, mr. prime minister, not for long. until then.
mr president, democracies are founded on one basic principle. politicians represent their people and they have this power on loan from their people. i’m afraid you have forgotten about this fundamental concept, prime minister. the reason, the so-called ruling of the constitutional tribunal, is the result of a reckless gambling game putting an entire country at stake. the outcome is serving the interests of the people in power. you, prime minister, say yes to the money, but no to the values and the treaties. president von der leyen, i hope to see decisive and determined action soon. it is good that the commission presents careful judicial analysis, which is the opposite of the polish government’s judicial hooliganism, but no more patience with autocrats. we owe this to the judges under pressure, the ones fired, to the women, to the lgbt community and to all demonstrators. and of course these demonstrators are worried not about europe or brussels, but about their democracy and the protection of their rights vis-à-vis their own government. the polish government tries to create a false contrast between the polish people and the rest of europe, and the louder they shout, the clearer it becomes. the opposite is true. we europeans are the partners of the people in poland. we will not let ourselves play a part and we will do all we can to protect them against their own autocratic leaders and to preserve their rights and their democracy.
mr president, by systematically - and i say systematically - calling into question the primacy of european law, poland is attacking the hammer and sickle at the cornerstone of the european edifice. if we accept this, each state would be a member of nothing, because there would be no unity. it would be a yes to europe à la carte, where everyone takes what suits him. a continental atm, a supermarket for the securities. it is a model of non-europe. but we fight for a community of destiny. this community was fought for by a great european and a personal friend, bronisław geremek. we therefore also fight tirelessly for the polish people against a government which is deliberately attacking the independence of the judiciary. no, mr. prime minister, this is not blackmail. you missed an opportunity this morning. your provocations are hopeless and useless. instead of protecting our common rules, which you have freely accepted, you are now flagrantly violating them.
mr. chairman, colleagues, mr. prime minister, using the judiciary to fight a political battle is playing with fire. i say this as someone who was the minister of justice in the czech republic for years. i am very sorry that the constitutional court in poland has given this politically motivated judgment. this verdict is not the natural outcome of a particular court case that would ultimately end up in your constitutional court, mr. prime minister. you went directly to the constitutional court, your government, and the court issued this politically motivated decision. you, unfortunately, did not say in your speech what would happen next. now there's a deadlock. your constitutional court is questioning the fundamental principles of the european union. it calls into question the primacy of union law over national legal systems. so what happens next? is this the beginning of the destruction of the european union? is it just a gesture of strength? i'm very worried about this one. if this is to be a precedent and if this is how the constitutional courts in other member states should start deciding, european integrity is seriously threatened. so i ask you to consider whether it is appropriate to use an independent judiciary for political struggle. in my opinion it is not, and you are unfortunately calling into question the very essence of european integration.
mr president, prime minister, please! when we signed the treaties of the european union as a sovereign country, we agreed in a referendum to respect european values. and you know that there is no conflict between the constitution and the treaties. the dispute is about your government's violation of the constitution of the republic of poland, of the treaties, and of european values. let's think about why you're bothered by the standards that your predecessors and other european union countries have respected. after all, the independence of the courts is in the interest of every honest pole. one might think that the struggle to manipulate and politically shape sentences, the harassment, the destruction of independent judges, is a desire to cover up the lies and deceits of the rulers. millions of proud poles cannot accept the polexit and the loss of values and principles that were fought for after years of communism. so i ask you, prime minister, whose interests are you protecting? whose interests are more important than the interests and the reason for the state of the polish nation?
mr. chairman, please! mrs von der leyen was kind enough to mention a number of values: democracy, freedom, equality, human rights, the rule of law, solidarity. these are the values that poles support, which is why almost 90 percent of poles are in favor of staying in the european union. iratxe garcía pérez, on the other hand, put it in a very cautionary way: by rejecting these principles of the european union, we are heading for the exit door. and let it ring, we're headed for the exit door. poles are europeans. poland needs a strong european union. we know that the union needs poland. and i would also like to quote your president, manfred weber: by weakening the european union, we are doing our enemies or enemies a favour. we must not weaken the european union. poland will remain in the union, it will remain in europe. the company will remain in poland. it doesn't go away. governments do pass away, but the question is, what will be left behind? and that's what we should all be concerned about.
mr president, i empathise with disillusioned polish citizens who have bravely taken to the streets in protest at the actions of the polish government and repeated here today by you, mr prime minister. it affects us all. comparisons to the german constitutional court are being used as a smokescreen. in real terms, what you are saying is that the executive in poland is above the judiciary. correct me if i’m wrong, prime minister, but as a loyal member of the eu, as you have recently said, how can this mean your government believes in the rule of law? the simple fact is that by declaring cherry-picked articles of the eu treaty incompatible with the polish constitution, you stand over a direct challenge to the unity of the european legal order. your country receives four times more from the european budget that you put in – about eur 16 billion. my country and others are net contributors. ponder that mr prime minister, because they might get tired of your antics.
we now come to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as at the previous partsession shall apply. all votes are by name. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote may not exceed 400 words. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 2.15 p.m. the results of the votes will be announced at 7 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the statements by the council and the commission (2021/2935 (rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! today, another hour of shame for those who rule in a place where there was so much to be proud of poland. the prime minister morawiecki, present in strasbourg, is only the executor of the will of the deputy prime minister kaczyński. it's curious, but it's true. the real boss of kaczyński in warsaw said that nothing would convince him that white is white and black is black. and it was in this spirit that prime minister morawiecki's 'homily' in strasbourg was held. all of democratic europe is wrong, in poland everything is fine. they're more and more like a crazy driver who's going against the current on the highway, but he's the one who's accusing everyone else of going the wrong way. the union is right: by defending the principles that protect civil liberties against abuse of power, it is standing on the side of the polish people. our task is to return to a democratic and law-abiding poland.
mr president, by joining the european union, the member states accepted the supremacy of european law over national laws, over their constitutions. countries had to change their constitutions to join the european union. european law is supranational. the member states of the union have explicitly accepted it. that's it. so let's not get bogged down in pointless arguments that take us away from what's important. by bringing us to debate a judgment of the polish constitutional court, the polish authorities are taking us away from the essential issue. they claim to give legitimacy to a court whose very independence is in question. they distract from the main issue: the problems of the independence of the polish judiciary. the polish judicial system is no longer independent and the rule of law is no longer guaranteed. the polish people deserve better. the european parliament therefore calls for the triggering of article 7 to finally lead to concrete consequences and also for european funds to be disbursed only if the rule of law is guaranteed.
mr president, commissioner, if the european union is serious about its objective of being a genuine player on the geopolitical chessboard, it must give priority to democracy everywhere and support those who defend it. taiwan is a democratic state that is under threat. the chinese military maneuvers to intimidate and pressure taiwan must be considered unacceptable, as must the disinformation campaigns to which taiwan is subject. we must maintain and develop our partnership with taiwan. and, without hesitation, not only have bilateral relations with taiwan, including by intensifying our economic relations, but also defend taiwan on the international stage. it is inconceivable that even as the covid pandemic raged without the possibility of vaccine protection, taiwan did not have the opportunity to participate in who meetings. we must do everything we can to ensure that taiwan has a real status at the international level. we must be aware of the difficulties involved in the present situation. today, because of its status, taiwan has huge problems in ordering vaccines. at the beginning of the pandemic, taiwan sent eight million masks to the european union. it is up to us today to show solidarity by ensuring that the taiwanese have access to the vaccine.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased that this debate is taking place today in the european parliament. i think that the european parliament has reacted very quickly to the crisis at the external borders of the european union, in the case of the border of poland, lithuania and latvia. but i would like to see the same reflection in the other european institutions. and that's why i think that there should be a european council meeting very quickly, in a very urgent way, where the heads of government and the heads of member states of the european union should decide on actions that would try to end this crisis situation, because press briefings and twitter activity are no longer enough, and the number of tweets written unfortunately will not translate into an end to this conflict and this crisis. i also believe that all the member states of the european union would show great solidarity if they decided to co-finance the construction of a dam on the external borders of the european union. this was called for by more than a dozen eu member states over a month ago. and first of all, we need to block the channels of metastasis of migrants. and this requires a massive offensive by the states, first and foremost by the high representative/vice-president of the european commission and the president of the european council.
mr president, mr high representative, the reality on the european union's border with belarus is an intolerable human situation. human beings are being used to serve political agendas against the union. this is a european matter! we must demand respect for our values and laws in poland: no pushbacks. but we cannot accept that our borders are invaded either. let there be no mistake, russia is behind belarus. this flood of migrants at the eu's borders is a weapon to destabilise the eu, which is known to be divided on the migration issue. the disagreement between the member states is, in the final analysis, what is sought. it is also clear that the present polish government is a factor in the weakening of the union. the situation on the polish border is one factor that, as the elections approach, is bringing votes to the pis, which has a populist, anti-immigration discourse. we must be aware of these realities, just as we must be aware that the far right in this house is playing russia. lukashenko and his supporters are committing a crime by trafficking in human beings. we must put an end to this and, above all, we must find a way of acting together if we do not want them to achieve their aims.
madam president, in a world where disinformation is becoming increasingly frightening, defending journalists and protecting their investigative capacity has become more than ever an act of defending democracy, which cannot survive in the absence of reliable information for citizens. it is therefore essential, as we ask in this report, to prevent the powerful from using our own laws for abusive prosecutions against journalists. such abusive prosecutions are usually time-consuming, costly for the defendant and often result in damage to the defendant's reputation. the plaintiff generally uses this process to try to put the defendant truly in bankruptcy. the inevitable result is a chilling effect on freedom of expression and access to information, as many journalists end up self-censoring. the disparity in resources between the complainant and the defendant is immeasurable. we have to do something about it. the aim of this parliament's report is to provide the commission with guidance for a legislative proposal to put an end to an unacceptable practice, to punish abuse and to provide real protection for victims.
madam president, it’s been 15 months that the lukashenko and his regime has continued its systematic oppression towards their people. we must not lose sight of this fact while he’s extending illegal and anti—human matters to our borders. we should not fall into this trap by instrumentalising the precarious humanitarian situation there while addressing its security challenges. this crisis is yet another urgent reminder for the european union to finally agree on the new pact on migration and asylum and to strengthen our common foreign and security policy. we need determined and detrimental sanctions towards the lukashenko regime, as our gradual approach does not yield the desired results. these two arguments would best signal solidarity between and towards member states at the external borders, who are at the frontline of increasing challenges – solidarity that goes beyond the distribution of common funds, and also serves to respect laws and rights and to protect our democracies.
madam president, madam commissioner, unfortunately it is through the negative that alexander lukashenko shows what we are fighting for in the european union. it shows all the evil in authoritarian regimes and how dictators use force to stay in power. its own people are being crushed as they struggle peacefully against the usurper. but alexander lukashenko also flouts international law with absolute disdain, both for the rule of law and for human beings. first, the hijacking of an airliner to imprison a journalist and now, with the help of criminal networks, the smuggling of people across borders to destabilise the european union, which is known to be divided on migration issues. the european union must therefore continue to show that, contrary to the expectations of lukashenko and russia, which supports him, when attacked, the european union knows how to stand united despite its differences. and i would like to express my gratitude to our commissioner schinás for the essential role he has played in this context. finally, it is a strong sign that tomorrow we will be receiving svetlana tikhanovskaya in this chamber of the european parliament and that we will not give in to dictatorships.
mr president, commissioner gabriel, i welcome the conclusion of the president of the european commission that europe needs all its young people. it is very important to be able to arouse young people's interest in the democratic process, in electoral processes, in the opportunities for partnership and dialogue between young people from the european union and partner countries. the participation of young people in democratic processes is of paramount importance for europe's today and tomorrow. the participation of young people in decision-making at local, regional, national and european level will certainly lead to more successful european integration. building a more united and cohesive europe requires the commitment of young people, because we need their vision, their ideas. the more young people, not just young people, but highly educated young people, are involved in the process of building a strong and united europe, the stronger, more sustainable and more stable democracy will be in our societies. but disadvantaged young people - those from vulnerable and marginalised groups, from rural areas, from remote and less developed regions - must also be involved in this process. in this way we will strengthen their sense of european identity. the european union is a good world, but young people have to create an even better world, a much greener, a much more inclusive, a much more united world.
mr president, honourable commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your support. we sometimes say, "the world is built on young people". and then the young people once said, "what are we supposed to stand on? well, we can provide them with this basis, we who are a little younger or older and who have the power to decide on youth policies. and today we are deciding and providing the young people with the financial basis for this program. i am very pleased that we are adopting this resolution today, which declares the coming year to be the year of the young. in this context, i would like to thank in particular our president, sabine verheyen, who not only secured fresh funding but also managed to negotiate it in a relatively short time. as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on erasmus+, i was of course concerned at the beginning about where this new money would come from. thank god we had good negotiators and we got fresh money for this program. what i would like is for the member states to contribute more financially to this programme as well. like they were for some other programme, when it was the european year of culture and so on. and so, let me conclude by saying that i think that today, we, the policymakers, have given the young people who have been most affected by this pandemic a very, very nice christmas gift.
mr president, 2022 is the european year of youth. there are a thousand reasons. i just want to point out that young people have more than their fair share of responsibility in this pandemic. not only were they confined like us and their social lives greatly restricted, even though the risks to their health were much less. it will also be up to them to pay back the debts that are incurred so that our societies do not collapse under the economic consequences of the pandemic. this responsibility requires that we have greater confidence in how the money is spent. it is therefore a good thing to have called the instrument 'nextgenerationeu'. a constant reminder and a compass. it is imperative that these 800 billion build the future and therefore focus on the green and digital transitions. in my various meetings with young people at the conference on the future of europe, they always told me that they should learn more about the european union at school. this request was linked to the expression of two needs: to understand all that our union brings to them and to understand our historical differences, but above all also what unites us. so let's answer that question.
