the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: cultural heritage is a source of our common wealth, bearing witness to europe's history, keeping alive the memory of civilisation, inspiring us to create new cultural values in the present and offering us lessons for shaping our common future. cultural heritage forms the core of the identity of each individual and community. it represents our different traditions, languages, ways of life, but it also helps us to recognise the common ground that unites us all. europe's unique and diverse cultural landscape is made up of countless cultural treasures - tangible and intangible, movable and immovable, printed, audiovisual and digital. in order to raise awareness of this rich heritage, 2018 has been declared the european year of cultural heritage. during that time, more than 23 000 events took place in europe, involving 12.8 million people in all member states. the european year of cultural heritage was a remarkable achievement, and we have much to thank the member states and civil society organisations who played a major role in its creation. the report i have drawn up for the european parliament should be seen as a roadmap for the future, so that the achievements and the institutions of the year of cultural heritage can be sustained in the future. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the administrative staff, as well as civil society activists, who have contributed a great deal to help prepare this report. first, it was important for us to highlight the multifaceted value of cultural heritage in the report. undoubtedly, cultural heritage is a value in itself, not just a precursor to other industries and sectors. the cultural heritage sector in europe is an important engine of growth and employment, employing some 300 000 people and indirectly supporting 7.8 million jobs in europe. the estimated rate of employment growth of the sector is very high, outpacing many other sectors. cultural tourism is a particular driver of growth in the european union, with four in ten tourists choosing their destination based on its cultural offer. europeans are unanimous in their appreciation of cultural heritage. in line with the eurobarometer survey, 84% of respondents in the member states consider cultural heritage to be important to them personally and to their local community, while eight out of ten respondents consider cultural heritage to be important to the european union as a whole. the report also highlights the educational aspects of cultural heritage. cultural heritage enriches the educational process and content with values and new educational opportunities. education is the most important means of preserving cultural heritage and maintaining the chain of its use. recognising these synergies, it is necessary to increase access to and the active participation of the public in the knowledge and preservation of european cultural heritage, including through the implementation of european union programmes and initiatives such as the 'european capital of culture', 'creative europe', 'erasmus+', 'european heritage label' and others. in the context of education, one of the challenges is the lack of qualified cultural heritage specialists restorers and skilled craftsmen . it is therefore important to ensure stable funding for the training of professionals in the field of cultural heritage. it is also necessary to strengthen the dialogue between generations and the master-disciple relationship for the exploitation of skills. the report also highlights the need to develop a comprehensive european union framework with adequate funding to better target the identification and preservation of digital heritage, given its increasing importance, especially during a pandemic. the commission should be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the implementation of the union's policy on cultural heritage, in particular by providing the commission with the necessary information to enable it to assess the impact of the union's cultural heritage on the cultural heritage of the union. in particular, we have seen the creation of many new innovative cultural values in the digital environment, which are already considered today as heritage valuable evidence of our times. however, the negative impact of covid-19 on the cultural and creative sectors cannot be overstated museums, galleries and other cultural heritage sites, including tourist attractions, have closed their doors to visitors, drastically reducing their sources of revenue, severely affecting the management of cultural monuments and the well-being of cultural workers. understanding this, it is high time to work on sustainable financing models for the preservation of cultural heritage in order to reduce its dependence on commercial activities. the report reiterates parliament's call for a more integrated and coordinated approach within the commission to safeguard europe's cultural heritage and for better internal cooperation with the various policies and administrations. the report also calls for the establishment and adequate funding of a permanent platform for cooperation and coordination in cultural heritage policy at european union level, with organised civil society at its centre. in conclusion, i am confident that the european parliament's report adopted this week will provide a new impetus for the appreciation, conservation and exploitation of the value of cultural heritage in the european union and its member states. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of the financial regulation). i hope that the report will strengthen our conviction that every european has the right to live in a quality cultural environment and at the same time the duty to ensure its sustainability.
in writing. the arrest and trial of alexei navalny in the moscow police station, without the possibility of a lawyer, is yet another striking example of the farce, injustice and gross violations of human rights that the russian authorities have demonstrated to the world. the alexei navalny case is not just a story about a citizen of the russian federation, alexei navalny, and it is not just a domestic russian political issue. unfortunately, the russian state institutions have been continuing to put pressure on human rights defenders, civil society activists and organizations, and on the free press for a long time (for years now!). changes in russian legislation are facilitating the authorities' efforts to put pressure on the political opposition, human rights activists and independent media. the attempt to incriminate the leader of the political opposition alexei navalny and now his unlawful detention is just one of many incidents that mark a negative trend in russia. we must not be indifferent to the navalny case and to what is happening in russia, because these lawless tendencies are taking place on the very doorstep of the european union. i therefore call on the european union to review its current sanctions policy and to impose new sanctions on russian officials who are directly responsible for the destruction of civil liberties and human rights violations in russia.
mr president, you have probably noticed it in your own household: the average life of our dishwashers is getting shorter and shorter. you probably have a smartphone somewhere that's not broken. most of the time, the device is designed so that you can't fix it yourself. it costs us money, it creates discomfort, it's waste, it's not economically smart. i therefore support the right to repair as a solution to the throwaway economy in this new action plan. the commission is also proposing to extend the ecodesign law to the circular economy. today it focuses only on energy, but this is how we achieve half of our european energy saving target. that's a lot. imagine how much less materials, how much less cost we would all have if that law were extended. in short, better products that last longer and cost less for people and planet. that's what this plan is about, and i fully support it.
for the renew group. madam president, we are wasting our resources. we've been doing too much shit, and it's almost become a habit. it's about us consumers throwing away our jeans or our tv instead of fixing it. but this is also true of our shops and manufacturers, who throw away so many unused goods that it would seem that this is a lie. in denmark alone, up to 700 tons of unsold clothing are burned each year. so these are goods where we have already used natural materials, water and energy to produce them, and that is a piece of shit! instead, we need to create a market where resources flow back. where we don't just shit off finished products because the fashion season is changing. i actually see this as a huge opportunity for us: together we can create better standards for how we produce. that's why i've proposed that we make it illegal to destroy unused goods. we need to give our resources as long a life as possible, and we're also creating a new market for recycling good materials.
madam president, mr sinkevičius, dear colleagues, now, when we are struggling with the crisis and desperately trying to get back to growth, it is also time to rethink what we actually mean by growth. we can grow only if we learn to reduce the use of primary raw materials and introduce new recycling techniques, with a clear measurement of the ecological footprint of products and services, and this is what this report is all about. electronic waste is a prominent test case here. despite every effort to dematerialise the production, the amount of electronic waste is growing by 2% a year. this is not sustainable, and that’s why we call on the commission to implement fully the circular electronics initiative mentioned in the report. first of all, it’s about the right to repair, not just physical parts, but even more importantly software. second, it’s a guarantee of durability of products and the reuse and dismantling possibilities. and third, this is our common charger initiative for mobile devices, to make the life of europeans easier and more sustainable. thank you very much and my congratulations to jan on this excellent report.
mr president, europe has gone through a dramatic process of finding solutions to the largest crisis we have faced since the end of the second world war. it has required great effort from the european institutions and european leaders to show historic unity. as a result, the recovery and resilience facility (rff) can become a plan providing unprecedented financial support. eu member states will have the unique opportunity both to lead their countries and nations out of depression and to advance their economies in environmental, digital, social and employment terms. we cannot fail this opportunity. unfortunately, there are many ways to fail. let’s take one example. an eu member state government is planning to spend eur 2 million from the rff on creating a digital tool for long—term forecasts for a social insurance system. it’s probably a great and fantastic project itself, but it has nothing to do with either the covid crisis or with recovery or resilience. it is just a project taken from a shelf at one of the ministries, which can be tagged as digital and sent as an application for guaranteed eu money. that was one particular example from the government i know best, but we can presume that there is definitely not going to be only one project like this across the union. there will be hundreds and thousands of projects like this, applying for hundreds of millions of euros from the fund. this is exactly how the recovery and resilience facility plan should not work. we need to rebuild our economies, not to finance doing business as usual. the rrf is designed for the long—term goals of the continent: to serve them, not to serve the short—term goals of the governments. it is really great news that the european parliament will be involved in all stages, from the preparation of national plans to their evaluation, approval and implementation. controlling the functioning of the fund should become a crucial task for this house immediately after establishing the recovery and resilience facility.
in writing. – the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) is a landmark opportunity for the member states to overhaul their economies. however, it is important to make sure that with this unparalleled financial resource not only the immediate negative effects of the pandemic are mitigated, but more importantly, that countries and their economies emerge from the crisis stronger, more resilient and sustainable. the right approach entails encompassing and supporting all sectors, not only the privileged few. with this in mind, the parliament has repeatedly called for a 2% allocation of the rrf to the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) which have been hit particularly hard by the pandemic. i am glad to see that certain member states in their recovery plans to be submitted to the commission have already included such earmarking to culture and media, while others must follow suit. ccs in europe have an under-appreciated importance to economic growth and employment, and they are well placed to support the eu’s ambitious goals of green recovery. only by involving everyone in the recovery efforts can we ensure that the eu retains its competitiveness on the world stage, leading by example.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. you guys! i believe that at the level of the european union, we need to create a mechanism that prevents global platforms, authoritarian states and agents of influence from third countries from manipulating the content of our news and thus also political decisions and public actions, but restrictions are not enough. first, favourable conditions must be created for the development of trustworthy media in the digital environment, so that users have access to quality media content in the first place, and here the european union must invest more in independent media and their digitisation. second, platforms should be subject to strict and legally regulated obligations to address malicious and targeted organised behaviour. there is no place for 'kremlin trolls' in the democratic information space. and third, global platforms must guarantee equal security for users in all the languages of the european union, not just the major languages. it is the smaller information spaces, such as the baltic states, that the kremlin has defined as its special interest area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if the history of the women's movement has shown one thing, it is this: nice questions do not get us far in the fight against patriarchy, but only by demanding, protesting, striking, letting it happen and always with great solidarity even across borders. and that is where we are today. because even things that seemed to have been won are being questioned again. some countries are moving against the consensus and the common commitment of the beijing declaration. and more treacherous than that in their troubled world, they are supposed to do this even in the fight for human rights. at the beginning, there's the who's who of misogynists: saudi arabia, bahrain, belarus and of course poland and hungary authoritarian regimes together with authoritarian governments in the european union. i have a message for these governments, as i did a hundred years ago, fifty years ago and twenty-five years ago: we will not be intimidated! we will continue to fight for our rights today more than ever!
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament again for putting the beijing platform for action on its agenda. thank you to the members too, for their contributions, which really encourage me and fill me with more strength to work even harder so that we won’t have to wait another 25 years to really have equality. equality between women and men is one of the fundamental values of the european union. it is part of its dna since the beginning, so we are, and remain, fully committed to advocating gender equality and ensuring girls’ and women’s empowerment both inside the european union and worldwide. looking forward, it is important now more than ever to work together – women and girls, men and boys, politicians, businesses, together with grassroots activists, non-governmental organisations, human rights defenders. everyone should be on board. we must work on a sound foundation: that of breaking down gender stereotypes and bias and encouraging women and girls to choose their parts without bias – to be decision makers and leaders at all levels and on all topics. i strongly believe that this is key to the transition to a resilient and competitive economy, and to a more equal world, as we committed to strive for 25 years ago. again, i thank you for putting this on the agenda and for your contributions.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this debate. it was an important debate, a timely debate, especially at a time when we are facing so many challenges that are also linked to the pandemic context we are living in. during the portuguese presidency of the council we plan to examine closely the impact of the covid-19 crisis on gender equality, with a special focus on the labour market. we believe that a scientific approach based on facts is essential. our work will build on research from the european institute for gender equality with the aim of working towards council conclusions for adoption at the epsco council in june. this is an example of a deliverable of unquestionable value. we will remain vigilant whenever gender equality, the empowerment of women and girls and their full enjoyment of human rights, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, are questioned or threatened. we will work to ensure that the progress that the policies of the european union and its member states have brought over the past 25 years is protected from any setbacks. this is a policy that should be for progress, not regression. and for that, 25 years after the beijing declaration, we need to work together, men and women, member states, council, commission, parliament, to defend that women and girls can enjoy, without fear, without violence, in freedom, in equality, can enjoy full equality and develop their full potential. we can't wait another 25 years!
ladies and gentlemen, this exciting debate is over, and we hope that statements will be made more and more in line with the facts in order to achieve full equality for women. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday 10 february 2021 and the final vote will take place on thursday 11 february 2021. the sitting was suspended until 8 p.m. and the opening of the second round of voting today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. much progress has been made in achieving equality between men and women, but major challenges remain. we want to ensure that a strong, inclusive recovery follows the covid-19 pandemic, leading to a society where gender equality is not a question. we must continue to focus on education, training and lifelong learning as the key conditions for promoting equal opportunities for women and girls, especially roma women and girls. we need to focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem) as well as digital skills and artificial intelligence. women's creativity and entrepreneurial potential remain an untapped source of economic growth and jobs. such initiatives can promote equal opportunities and potentially increase eu gdp by €16 billion a year. the epp group and the fidesz-kdnp delegation in the european parliament stand for equal pay for equal work between men and women. women now earn on average 16% less than men in the eu. we also support the elimination of all forms of violence. this must be an absolute priority for the eu, the member states and the authorities, who must do everything possible to eliminate violence against women, support victims and hold perpetrators accountable.
we now proceed to the second round of voting today. we shall now proceed to the votes on the items on the agenda. the voting will be open from 8.00 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in the previous round. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i therefore call for a second round of voting. the vote will take place at 9.15 p.m. the sitting will be adjourned at 9.15 p.m. today and will resume at 9.00 a.m. tomorrow with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting today. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the safety of the astravets nuclear power plant in belarus (o-000004/2021 - b9-0003/21) (2021/2511 (rsp)). i would remind you again that during this part-session there will be no requested speeches or blue card questions. i would also point out that, as in previous partsessions, it is possible to use the floor by remote access from the liaison offices of the member states.
author. – madam president, (inaudible) union, both within and beyond its external borders. ostrovets nuclear power plant, located 50 kilometres from vilnius in lithuania and in proximity to other eu countries, such as poland, latvia and estonia, started generating electricity on 3 november 2020, despite multiple safety concerns remaining, and without evidence of the degree of the implementation of the recommendations by the eu peer review of 2018 and by the international atomic energy agency. the eu peer review, carried out by the european nuclear safety regulators group (ensreg), published its report in july 2018 and called on the belarusian authorities to develop a national action plan in order to ensure the timely implementation of all safety recommendations identified in the peer review report. the further peer review process is ongoing and ensreg will complete and publish its findings in the coming months. we would like to emphasise that our preliminary report should be transmitted to belarus before march when the commercial start of the plant is scheduled by the belarusian authorities. at the same time, we express our dissatisfaction with the hasty commercial start of the plant. the ostrovets nuclear power plant should not start its operation until it has been demonstrated that it fully complies with the highest international environmental and nuclear safety standards. it is imperative that nuclear safety standards are given the highest priority, not only during the planning and construction, but also during the operation of the plant, and must be constantly overseen by an independent regulator. to that end, we call on the commission and ensreg to continue with a transparent and attentive peer review of the ostrovets plant. we should insist on the implementation of all safety recommendations and we also need to ensure the effective monitoring of the implementation process, including regular visits by the eu peer review team to ostrovets during the operation of the facility. in that regard, we would like to stress the importance of effective cooperation with the international atomic energy agency. we also recall the european council conclusions of 10—11 december 2020, and we support the efforts to investigate possible measures preventing commercial electricity imports from third country nuclear facilities that do not fulfil european union recognised safety levels. at the same time, we also stress the strategic importance of accelerating the synchronisation of the baltic electricity grid with the continental european network. the future operation of the ostrovets nuclear power plant should not in any way hinder the desynchronisation of estonia, latvia and lithuania from the brell network. the european union should continue the integration of the three baltic states into the eu electricity grid. we also express our full solidarity with belarusian citizens and the citizens of eu countries directly concerned by the construction and operation of the ostrovets plant. we call for the further high—level involvement of the european union and its institutions in this issue of ultimate european importance. finally, we would like to invite the commission to answer the questions submitted by the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and keep us informed of all future developments. we would like to have very good dialogue between parliament and the itre committee, especially with the commission. until now we have had excellent cooperation on this issue and excellent dialogue with commissioner kadri simson. i would like to thank her and her team for their openness and for all the information that was provided to the members of the itre committee on this issue. it is an issue of concern for us and for many colleagues in parliament. this is why in this debate we would like to hear answers to our specific questions from the commission.
member of the commission. – madam president, good morning honourable members of the european parliament. i’m very happy to have this opportunity to come to the plenary and inform you about the actions the commission has been taking to ensure the safety of the nuclear power plant of ostrovets in belarus. today’s debate is very timely. just yesterday, the team of nuclear safety experts from the commission and from the european nuclear safety regulators group (ensreg) has concluded a visit on the site of the power plant and this visit is a key part of the ongoing peer review process. the commission, together with ensreg, has worked swiftly to set up the peer review team and negotiate their schedule for conducting the review before the planned commercial start of the nuclear power plant, including a plant visit. the first phase of the peer review, initially foreseen for december 2020, has begun at the end of january. after the technical test review carried out remotely on tuesday and wednesday this week, a team of seven ensreg and commission experts carried out the first phase mission to verify the physical implementation of measures at the ostrovets plant. the team consists of senior experts from different member states, ukraine and the commission. the team has a strong expertise in the key areas of peer review and is fully independent in making its conclusions on the adequate implementation of safety recommendations by the ostrovets nuclear power plant operator and belarusian authorities. the experts will now complete the preliminary report; this report will be then submitted to the plenary meeting of ensreg at the beginning of march for endorsement. once approved, the report will be published. this process is set to guarantee a credible, independent and robust technical review of the situation. therefore, at this point in time, pending the completion of ensreg review procedures, it would not be appropriate for me to comment on the ongoing independent work by the senior nuclear safety experts and prejudge the findings in the report. i believe that all sides should refrain from commenting on the results of the mission at this stage. as i said, ensreg will publish its preliminary report for full transparency. let me stress one thing: this preliminary report will be very important, but in any case it will not be for us the end of our involvement and our commitment with the full safety of the plant. ensreg and the commission will continue to follow closely the implementation of the remaining recommendations and, once pandemic conditions allow, the full peer review team will to meet in belarus to assess the remaining recommendations. at that time, they will prepare a final report for endorsement by ensreg and subsequent publication. this brings me to the second question raised by parliament. the commission’s clear position is that all ensreg safety recommendations should be addressed by belarus without delay. for this reason, i wrote to the prime minister of belarus on 6 november 2020 requesting that the belarusian government makes sure that all the steps in the commissioning process are taken in full respect of the highest safety standards and that the stress test recommendations deemed of high priority by ensreg are implemented as a minimum before commercial operations start. let me be clear, in line with international law, the decision on whether to grant the license for commercial operations to the ostrovets plant lies with the belarusian authorities and the ultimate responsibility for the safety of the plant remains that of the operator under the supervision of the national nuclear regulator. the commission is using all its diplomatic and policy means to ensure a constructive cooperation from belarus and ask that any decision on commercialisation is taken based on current data for the highest level of safety. in the current difficult political situation the technical cooperation with belarus on the completion of the peer review exercise represents the last remaining channel for maintaining accurate, up—to—date knowledge of the safety situation in ostrovets. as i said, our commitment will not stop after the first peer review mission. in addition to cooperation on the completion of the ensreg peer review, the commission is seeking to open new channels with belarus for maintaining contacts in the nuclear safety area through encouraging rapid involvement of belarus in the eu’s accident notification system and its formal participation in the european radiological data exchange platform. in agreement with commissioner urpilainen, we are also ready to offer technical support to the belarusian nuclear safety authorities under the future european instrument for international nuclear safety cooperation, building on the projects carried out under the existing instrument for nuclear safety cooperation. but while we are willing to step up cooperation, the commission remains vigilant and stands ready to apply increased pressure should it see that the high priority recommendations have not been satisfactorily implemented. well, these are not all the elements that i wanted to set up in reply to your questions. but because of time limits and given this evolving situation i want to offer my own and ensreg’s readiness to return to the parliament, either in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) or in plenary, to provide the honourable members with an update when the technical outcome of the peer review mission will be available and on other matters related to the safety of ostrovets and the synchronisation process of the baltic states.
on behalf of the renew group, dear madam president, dear mrs samson! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear power stations in the member states are not affected by the nuclear accident. but we are confident that the decisions about its operation are made by an authoritarian regime that is in constant conflict with its own citizens. we are convinced that this is a geopolitical project that unites lukashenko with putin, which is demonstrably built right next to the lithuanian capital and 180 kilometers from latvia, which potentially threatens european security, our environment and the health of our citizens. we are therefore convinced that europe must act both pragmatically and in principle on this project. in the european union, the baltic states are already doing this they have jointly suspended and stopped energy trade with belarus as soon as astravieca was connected to the grid. unfortunately, astravyets' electricity can still reach the european union market via the russian electricity grid, so europe needs to work on measures to completely eliminate in principle the import of nuclear energy from nuclear power plants in third countries that do not meet the safety levels recognised by the european union, and astravyets would be the first of these. we understand that the european union has unfortunately no means of stopping the activities of astravieca, despite the fact that it does not meet international nuclear safety standards, but europe has the opportunity, at least with the money of its citizens and companies, not to support such authoritarian regimes in their geopolitical games. the european union can now consistently encourage belarus to comply immediately with all safety standards and this 'peer review' recommendation, as already mentioned, and to engage constructively with international organisations. and europe has the ability to demand that belarus comply with all its international commitments which it has made by joining the united nations espo convention. europe also has the possibility of setting up early warning systems for radiation measurements in the countries of the european union located in the vicinity of this nuclear power plant. and the european commission, i think, here has to work closely with the belarusian authorities to stop the commercial launch of astravieca until all these recommendations of the european union's professionals and experts are fully implemented and also the necessary security improvements. and the european union must continue the integration of the three baltic states into the european union's electricity grid and common energy grid, which has already begun.
author good afternoon, members of the european parliament! madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to start by saying that kazakhstan is a very important partner of the european union and relations with kazakhstan as one of the providers of stability and development in the central asian region are very important. the reforms in public administration and legislation, including the abolition of the death penalty, are also highly commendable. it is precisely because the european union is an important, forward-looking partner, our friend, that it is important to express its criticism, its concern about human rights standards and the need to accelerate and extend democratic reforms. the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan, which aims to provide a broad basis for enhanced political dialogue, with democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental values playing a key role, entered into force a year ago. our common goal is the well-being of our citizens and democracy. today we are voting on a resolution on human rights violations in kazakhstan. why has this question even come up? starting last august, and continuing until the end of the year, authorities in several regions of kazakhstan began to target civil society organizations without sufficient grounds and evidence. checks were initiated on the foreign donations received by these organisations and their use. in total, more than 20 ngos were prosecuted. some were fined heavily and several organisations were forced to close down. such actions by the authorities of kazakhstan have attracted the attention of the international community, including the european union. and we have to respond! i call on the government of kazakhstan to act in accordance with its international obligations, respecting human rights and fundamental values. i also call on kazakhstan to implement reforms aimed at promoting the modernisation, democracy and stability of the state, and to strengthen efforts to reform the political system of kazakhstan in order to develop parliamentarism and a multi-party system, as well as to expand civic participation. i would like to emphasise once again that kazakhstan is a close and reliable ally of the european union in the central asian region and that the friendship between the european union and kazakhstan guarantees much greater security in the region and a more transparent future for the people of the country. but there are things that the european parliament, in close cooperation with the institutions of the european union, should still do. i sympathize with kazakhstan's own efforts to strengthen democratic processes and i consider them my friends. this resolution therefore serves as a good roadmap that will further contribute to the european-kazakhstan partnership.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, the success or failure of the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) cannot be measured in the square kilometres of roads repaired, cubic metres of buildings renovated, or the number of projects packed with the words ‘digital’ or ‘environmental’, as is already done by a number of member state governments. it is the ultimate priority of the whole continent that the rrf is used to create the new green, circular, digital economy, targeting, in parallel, poverty reduction, gender equality, social justice, social cohesion and upward convergence. that’s why the european semester has become more important than ever before, bringing together next generation eu (ngeu) with the rrf and the long—term goals of the european continent. and that’s why the european parliament itself should be fully involved in the european semester process, including the country—specific recommendations. it’s not about shaping the european semester; it’s about shaping the future of our continent.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the negotiations on the report of the economic committee were rather tense. it's not a miracle. the political parties have different to opposite economic policy conceptions. we have nevertheless succeeded in producing a joint report. this is important because we need a voice in parliament in the debates on the future direction of economic and financial policy. these questions are far too important to be left to the commission and the council alone. i would like to draw attention to three points in particular. firstly, we agree that the stability and growth pact needs to be reviewed. and depending on the outcome of the review, we're prepared to adjust the rulebook. this will be urgently needed because after the pandemic, we will have a new debt reality and the current target of a debt-to-gdp ratio of 60% will no longer be tenable. but of course, adjustment can only be achieved through a sustainable fiscal policy that ensures that public debt remains sustainable. secondly, we agree that public and private investment needs to be increased, in particular to make the climate neutral and digital transformation a success. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and thirdly, we must make it clear that economic policy must of course contribute to achieving our social and environmental objectives. and it must not, under any circumstances, stand in the way of these objectives. the list of joint agreements could be extended. overall, i am convinced that the report provides a good basis for further discussions on the future economic policy of the eu.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the european semester is the most important coordination mechanism of the european economic policies, born out of necessity in 2011. it must now be developed and fine-tuned to meet the challenges of the future. the covid crisis has clearly shown that there is an increased demand for such coordination, particularly in moments that clearly go beyond business as usual. therefore, the semester has to be adapted. it has to keep its macroeconomic core, fiscal discipline, macroeconomic stability and healthy public debt levels, but also address other challenges - social, environmental and technological. our work in the european parliament must be part of that development to make the semester move forwards and not backwards. therefore, our priorities in this year’s report were, first of all, to make the european economy more resilient. that is why we emphasised the link between the recovery and resilience facility and this year’s european semester cycle. socially and environmentally balanced reforms, facilitated by the rrf, in all member states have to make european economies fit for dealing with future challenges. second, this is to enable the green transition as our new growth strategy. climate policy and economic policies have to be integrated in order to achieve the goals of the european green deal. third, is a promotion of research and innovation to boost european competitiveness in the global world. macroeconomic policies in all member states must be designed in order to facilitate both private and public investment in future technologies, digital, artificial intelligence, quantum computing and so forth. the current report is, of course, the result of a broad compromise so some issues have been covered more and some less. for some, it might seem too much to the left, and for some too much to the right. however, it is necessary for the european parliament to be capable of speaking with one voice on such important issues as macroeconomic governance and reforms in the member state. our citizens in all the european countries clearly expect that from us and we can’t let them down.
mr president, so far only certain member states have ratified the procedure on the eu own resources system. the certification process must be completed rapidly eu-wide if we want to implement our ambitious plans to create – for the first time in the history of our continent – common european debt in order to overcome the crisis and finance our recovery. we cannot afford any delays in this process. delays will bring even higher risks to economically and socially more vulnerable member states like my country, for instance. and we all need to understand that the idea of a united europe is at stake. those who are constantly threatening our values and principles will use any european union failure. that is the largest threat we face right now. the own resources system must be ratified on a fast-track procedure by all member states. that is the only possible answer to this, and to any future crisis our union will be challenged by. more europe: that’s all we need in the european union.
mr president, when setting guidelines for the 2022 budget, we must keep in mind lessons from the covid crisis. neither the strongest military defence nor the most advanced social systems are enough to protect our welfare or security. robust healthcare systems then become our new challenge. the eu vaccination rate is badly falling behind the us and the uk. at the current rate, 99% of adults in uk will be vaccinated by the end of this summer. it looks like, just for comparison, there will be only 11% of adults in the eu vaccinated by that time. the free market, distorted by large pharma corporations, doesn’t really work in crisis times. we must introduce and implement a common european approach and direct financial support for research and production of vital medical supplies, including or starting with covid vaccines all over member states. europe also needs rights to implement control over the production and distribution of medical supplies in cases of emergency. medical security independence: that is what europeans expect from us.
in writing. good and inclusive education is one of the cornerstones of a healthy democracy and a sustainable investment in the future of society. as technology advances, the need for digital skills increases. more and more activities and even professions will be partly or fully automated, and most jobs already require at least basic digital skills. in the medium term, more and more highly skilled workers will need to develop digital skills. in short, the information age will bring a series of changes and education systems need to keep up with the times. the member states have the unprecedented opportunity to invest in promoting the digital transition through eu funds. at least 20% of the resources of the recovery and resilience facility shall be dedicated to digital transformation. similarly, funding for the different strands of digital education can also be found from the structural funds as well as from eu programmes, including 'around europe' and 'erasmus+'. in a broader sense, digital skills are a lifelong project. in the near future, a person without adequate digital skills risks being socially excluded. national policies should therefore focus on all groups of the population, not just those of working age. the digital divide needs to be addressed, which means that quality digital education should be accessible to everyone, regardless of age or place of residence. i am optimistic that europe's digital education set-up, combined with strong action by member states, will bring about the necessary changes in the promotion of digitalisation, which in turn will help to accelerate europe's economic recovery and enhance the continent's global competitiveness.
the respected chairman! i'm sorry, but i'm not going to be able to make it. the expansion and availability of funding is an essential condition for the implementation of the european union's research and innovation agenda, but it is not the only condition. it is also important to allocate this funding strategically, preferably proportionately, between the countries and areas of the european union. i am pleased that we have made some progress in our joint work on geographical balance, and many colleagues are also emphasising this in their speeches today. indeed, if we are to ensure sustainable and balanced growth, it cannot be as before, when the lion's share of research funding was concentrated in just a few countries. i am a representative of latvia, which is located in the north-east of europe, and i am cautiously hopeful that the new 'europe in focus' programme will stimulate the flow of researchers, students and entrepreneurs not only to the west. as regards the areas, i call for timely planning for the creation of a knowledge and innovation community for the cultural and creative sectors under the auspices of the european institute of innovation and technology. such a community will not only allow the cultural and creative sectors to regenerate and develop - in particular by expanding their commercial potential - but will also help to strengthen cultural and linguistic diversity and make an indispensable contribution to the european green path and the digital transformation.
madam president! as a result of the high climate targets, europe's energy policy is about to undergo a transformation of historic proportions. that's the subject of today's debate. success depends on three factors: focus, technology neutrality and avoiding ideological disputes. the green transition can only be achieved through sustainable emission reductions. that's the goal we have to keep in mind. to achieve this, all effective technology is needed. nuclear power and natural gas are such solutions. their role in the energy and hydrogen system of the future is undeniable. the labelling of these products undermines climate protection, ignores the specificities of member states and leads to an increase in energy poverty. so it's important to stop the radical left from turning energy policy into a debate. such thinking would lead the union towards a future of economic stagnation and explosive growth in government spending. it's a risky business. the people of europe deserve better than this.
madam president, commissioner, a climate neutral economy requires an integrated energy policy that combines different energy sources and makes use of the best available technologies, technologies that are clean, affordable and adapted to the specific needs of each sector. scientific research and innovation will be central to achieving these objectives, both in increasing the effectiveness of existing technologies and in developing new solutions. hydrogen will contribute to decarbonisation, in particular in energy-intensive industrial processes and in long-distance transport modes such as maritime transport or aviation. but we must avoid unrealistic leaps in technology. it is risky to bet on the real-scale use of technologies that have not yet been tested in pilot or demonstration projects. climate neutrality, energy security to meet these challenges, we need consistency in our policy definitions and effectiveness in their implementation.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! the energy transition cannot be pursued in isolation from the social costs and differences between member states. the choice of a particular technology should be determined by efficiency and cost-effectiveness, not ideology. this also applies to hydrogen, which is a great hope for a low-emission freight and passenger transport system. we should reduce the cost of producing this fuel, become independent of supplies from outside europe and obtain hydrogen from all possible sources, including fossil fuels. i am glad that the kujawsko-pomorskie region will play an important role in this process. in 2022, production of hydrogen fuel will begin in włocławek, salt caverns in mogileń can be used to store this element, and in september pesa from bydgoszcz will present a prototype of a modern hydrogen locomotive. this is not only an important contribution of my region to poland's energy transformation, but also an opportunity for new investments and new jobs.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i congratulate our reporters. the expectations for both strategies are huge: the european union's energy independence, the move away from fossil fuels and perhaps above all the fight against energy poverty and smog, as well as lower electricity and heat bills in the european union. the challenges are enormous. we have to do it this time, because the previous approaches to hydrogen strategies didn't work very well. in my opinion, there are three conditions to be met for this to work. first, the use of existing and future natural gas infrastructure. and to do that, you have to have new, innovative ideas. the european union is the world's largest economy. the greatest possible resources must be devoted to innovation, but also to the mobilisation of private capital and to the provision of appropriate legislation. secondly, it will all be settled in the sectoral legislation. i am talking here about the transeuropean energy network or the renewable energy directive, and also about the use of the structural funds or the reconstruction fund. here the commission needs to look clearly at how this is being done in each member state. and third, and this is very important, each country can have its own hydrogen economy boom wheel. in my country, poland, it's the district heating. we're hopeful about that. let's look at each of these solutions individually. i'm sure we can. it's got to work.
madam president, this is a very timely discussion on both the energy system integration and clean hydrogen production. both are important for the eu to reach ambitious climate goals. digitalisation has a crucial role in energy system integration. we need digitalised and smart solutions, ai and the ability to use data to optimise energy systems. digitalisation also empowers consumers. there are growing concerns – rightly – that digitalisation actually increases energy demand. however, studies show that harnessing ict solutions helps us reach clear reductions. we need concrete tools, both at eu and at national level, to support the market update of renewable or energy systems, but also for hydrogen. but we can’t afford to exclude available carbon—free solutions if we want to boost hydrogen to replace dirtier energy solutions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us, our generation, to end the age of fossil fuels and achieve climate neutrality. to achieve this we should invest in hydrogen, which is the real alternative to decarbonise energy-intensive industrial processes, heavy air, sea and road transport and all those sectors where electrification will not be possible. it is still a pipe dream, but thanks to the strategies put in place by the european union and the member states, we will finally be able to build a competitive market for hydrogen. in this context, transition technologies such as carbon capture, storage and use will play a decisive role, allowing for a rapid increase in hydrogen production and use and contributing to a reduction in co2 emissions in the short term. european leadership in this field is possible: let's not lose this opportunity.
madam president, madam commissioner, we are discussing today two reports which are important for the european union: both the hydrogen strategy and the strategy for the integration of the energy system lay out the way forward in the next decade if we are to meet our environmental objectives, but they are also important because they guarantee that european industry, especially smes, will be able to rely on an energy source which facilitates their global competitiveness. promoting the development of emission-free hydrogen, recognising the short and medium-term importance of low-emission hydrogen and encouraging investment in existing infrastructure to adapt it to hydrogen, points us in the right direction. on the other hand, reinforcing the european union's commitment to the electricity interconnection targets of 10% by 2020 and 15% by 2030 is and has been of particular importance, and this is because, without a strengthening of interconnections, some countries, including spain and portugal, would not be able to export their electricity production from renewable sources, and, as a consequence, the consumer would pay a surcharge for absorbing that production: that is why it is welcome to link the volume of renewable production and the progress that cross-border interconnections will and should have.
madam president! commissioner, please! my dear colleagues! when we talk about a new hydrogen strategy, it is important not to lose sight of the broader role of hydrogen in decarbonising our economy. renewable hydrogen is an important green energy source, but hydrogen will be a very important green energy solution in sectors where direct electrification is not technologically feasible, such as long-haul air traffic or maritime traffic. the european research budget must stimulate research and innovation in those sectors where decarbonisation is the greatest challenge. this is the path that can be followed to make hydrogen, in 2050, not 2% but 20% of the european union's energy mix. the demand from these sectors could then also stimulate the development of renewable hydrogen technologies such as photosynthesis, algae and electrolysis with seawater, because currently 95% of the hydrogen used in the european union's industry is derived from fossil fuels, and we urgently need to learn to rely on hydrogen in a safe way by introducing european best practices in the field of hydrogen safety here, and hydrogen needs to become a competitive energy source, and europe needs to maintain its leadership here, first and foremost through research and innovation, always being a solid lead over our competitors.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. commissioner, please! the european industrial strategy is a necessary structural element underpinning the european union's drive towards climate neutrality and digital transformation. the covid-19 pandemic and the associated economic downturn have highlighted new challenges both within and outside the european union, so the renewal of the industrial strategy a year later is a welcome step. however, such a strategy should be much more closely linked to the new multiannual budget, which provides a wider scope for more targeted financial support for the priorities including research, education and digital . on the other hand, as regards the external dimension, europe must continue to strengthen its links of cooperation and trade, while at the same time developing more strongly areas where it already has competitive and know-how advantages. in conclusion, i would like to note that the strategic autonomy approach must not become a pretext for protectionism and isolationism, from which no one will benefit.
dear prime minister! commissioner, please! you guys! thanks to the european parliament's united position and unrelenting work, the new erasmus+ programme is stronger than ever. it opens up new opportunities for the creation of a european education area and for preparing society for the digital age, as well as for green lifestyle learning, but we must continue to work to make erasmus+ truly accessible to everyone, especially those who want to study in the less well-off or in the most remote regions of the european union. similarly, we need to make skills upgrading and renewal a reality throughout life. for example, why not make the programme more accessible to older people in the future, as this could also make it a successful platform for dialogue and knowledge transfer between the ages. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that the next essential step after the approval of the erasmus+ programme is to implement a well-thought-out public relations strategy to make the programme known and used by the widest possible range of europeans, because that is when we can talk about a single erasmus+ family.
for the ecr group - the chairman of the board. the deportations carried out by the soviet authorities were a mass genocide against many independent peoples, nations and ethnic groups carried out to satisfy the ambitions of the stalinist authorities and to break the free will of the people in the territories occupied by the soviet army and prevent the subjugated nations from surrendering. already in the early years of world war ii, over 1.2 million poles were deported from soviet-occupied territories. on june 14, 1941, more than 15,000 people, including children, infants, and the elderly, were shipped from my native latvia in cattle cars in one day. many of them died on the way. many died from starvation, disease, and the effects of inhuman labor. the facts of the deportations have long been hidden, but today knowledge of the crimes of the communist regime forms an essential part of european social memory. but we have memories to remember and to learn and to use. the story of mass deportations must be incorporated into the educational content of young europeans. these events must be strongly represented in the permanent exhibition of the house of european history and in other historical and memorial institutions, including artworks. we must also act to counter attempts to suppress and falsify history. we, the european union, must continue to stand firm against any criminal and totalitarian regime, especially in our neighbourhood, which destroys the lives and livelihoods of innocent people.
my dear colleagues! in the context of today's challenging objectives, the role of the european rail traffic management system is becoming increasingly important, but we do not see the progress in implementation that we would like to see. to meet the 2030 and 40 targets, we need to accelerate the pace of implementation of this system by a factor of ten. we have to find a way to do that. synergies should be clearly ensured with the european financial instruments to support the implementation of this system, in particular with the connecting europe facility, the cohesion, recovery and resilience mechanism and the member states' contributions. member states should be encouraged to participate more in the implementation of the system. we still have member states that have not yet set the dates when they plan to complete the introduction of the system. how can we do this successfully if there is no concrete plan at national level? i would like to emphasise once again the importance of this system, especially at a time when we are promoting trains as an alternative to other modes of transport. our railways must be the safest, most efficient in the world, so that we can ultimately be an example to others. thank you.
for the ecr group good afternoon, madam president. you guys! the good mr. borel! disinformation campaigns, political and economic interference by countries like russia and china are a daily reality for us and our neighbours. it is therefore essential that we strengthen the capacity of the european military service task force and of all european institutions. as the representative of the baltic states, i would like to emphasise that the resources of the eastern strategic communication task force are still insufficient, but that is not enough for us either. we need to strengthen the security capacity of all sectors of society, with a particular focus on the democratic support that the free media provides us. the media in europe have been hit hard by the covid-19 crisis and need our support. it should be noted that the media in russia and belarus are also exposed to the brutal force of the authorities. the destruction of independent media by putin and lukashenko has left many professional journalists in russia and belarus, and even entire newsrooms, seeking refuge in the european union. the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities has been responsible for the repression of journalists and media organisations in the country. authoritarian leaders continue to threaten these media, even in the safe countries of the european union, by cutting off their financial flows and access to information. we must therefore introduce new support measures to help journalists and media editors in russia and belarus continue their work from the safe space of the european union, so that they can continue to expose the criminal activities of the authoritarian authorities and not let their citizens lose hope. we must therefore also continue to support the remaining independent local media in russia and belarus. as independent local journalism is being forcibly silenced in russia and belarus, we must also significantly increase the visibility of eu reporters in these countries by providing them with protection. we have a last chance to be proactive so that we do not lose access to objective information about what is happening in these neighbouring countries.
mr president, there is a tendency in the right-wing populist regimes to exploit the fears, the stereotypes, the insecurities of their citizens for their own short-term goals. these kremlin-inspired anti—lgbt propaganda laws in several countries are the clearest example here, and it is spreading also during the covid crisis in many european countries, so we have to act quickly. however, here in this house, we have to insist on two things. first, we have to show that homophobia and stigmatisation of minority groups has nothing to do with christian and european values. it is just the opposite: it is unchristian and uneuropean. secondly, respect for fundamental rights is an important precondition for the participation of a country in the european union, whether the current leadership likes it or not. respect for an individual choice is located at the very dna of the european project. therefore, the european parliament and the commission must call on the council to address concrete recommendations to hungary, as stipulated in article 7 of the treaty of the european union, including a recommendation to repeal the law, and with a clear deadline to implement them, and the start of the rule of law mechanism is important as well.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your encouraging interventions and for this very interesting debate tonight. i have taken a very good note of your comments and of the large support around the draft report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and now tabled for adoption by this house. let me briefly reply to some issues you raised and complement some of the points i already mentioned in my introductory remarks. many of you mentioned beyond gdp indicators. gdp is a key indicator of economic performance and essential in key policy fields. however, it cannot be the main indicator to measure societal progress, sustainability and resilience. we made much progress in developing alternative measurement. new concepts are being tested and increasingly used for policymaking at regional, national and international level. the oecd wellbeing index is a good example. at eu level, our new resilience dashboard developed as part of strategic foresight is nearly exclusively composed of beyond gdp indicators, and our work on an eighth eap monitoring framework will also provide a new opportunity. so technically we have come far and we are well equipped to go beyond gdp. now it’s up to us all to make this happen and to ensure that decisions on eu societal progress fully take into account the concerns of european citizens and capture sustainable development in its three dimensions. also, several of you mentioned targets to phase out fuel and energy subsidies. i took note of the interventions related to some of the targets you propose to include into the enabling framework or to commitments to establish such targets. well, our proposal already included a general commitment to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies. we will look carefully into the question of whether new commitments are necessary, and if so, whether they should be included in the eighth eap or in dedicated sector—specific instruments. thank you once again for tonight’s debate and for your work on this important file, and i truly look forward to successful negotiations in the coming months so that we can make swift progress and minimise the gap between the seventh and the eighth eap. our experts stands ready to start first technical discussions as soon as possible, after the adoption of parliament’s mandate for negotiations, to prepare for the first political trilogue in early september, and the commission will of course assist the co—legislators throughout the process in order to facilitate an agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, july 7, 2021, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, july 8, 2021.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on a new european research and innovation area, tabled by mr cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000031/2021 - b9-0026/21) (2021/2524 ((rsp)).
author. – mr president, this european research area – initially launched in 2000 under the lisbon treaty – underwent its revitalisation process in 2018. it is an effort to create a single, borderless market for research, innovation and technology across the eu. the objective of creating a genuine single market for research re-confirms the goal to realise an average research spending level of 3% of gdp. research ministers reaffirmed their commitment to reaching the target by 2030. here we are, 21 years after its launch, in the aftermath of the covid-19 pandemic: europe faces extraordinary health, economic and social challenges. last year’s communication set high ambitions for the new european research area (era), and it is very much welcomed. to further strengthen europe’s world-leading research, a strong era is essential, and must be based on research excellence, international collaboration, openness, inclusiveness and academic freedom. it should help fulfil the ambitions of the european green deal and industrial strategy. and this, of course, will be a great challenge. the context having been set with the communication, the committee on industry, research and energy, which i have the honour to chair, has tabled an oral question with a motion for a resolution, on the matter of which i put forward several aspects for your consideration. we’d like to underline the important role of that era played in research and innovation during the covid pandemic, in finding multi-sectoral and transdisciplinary solutions to overcome the crisis. in this regard, we welcome the ‘era versus corona’ action plan as an example of quickly defined and well-targeted action undertaken together with the member states. we are concerned that improving the quality of such an innovation system is slowing down: it shows uneven progress across the union. the covid pandemic has not only demonstrated the importance of research and innovation cooperation, but also of open science practices and infrastructures to rapidly deliver solutions to the most demanding societal needs. while we welcome the inclusive approach of the commission in aligning the era with the european education area and european industrial policy to foster synergies between the interdependent policies, this should lead to synergies, and not to more complexity in the european research area, the european education area or industrial policy. in order to achieve our goals, we need to have a pact for research and innovation in europe, and clear commitments by 2030 to increase public spending on research, innovation, and national public r&d funding. we truly believe that one of the keys to success of significantly increased public spending on research and innovation lies in integrating different european, national and private funding streams, including convergence of funding through horizon europe, the recovery and resilience facility (rrf), eu cohesion funds, and national r&d funding. we think that the recovery plans and the next generation eu represent an opportunity to reinforce the knowledge triangle and strengthen skills, education and research. and we stress the need for more structured links with the initiatives to reinforce the european education area and european innovation area. we call for an ambitious horizon europe, for widening participation and for the strengthening of an era package that supports collaboration between member states in order to achieve a balanced access to excellence. we approve of the commission’s plans to improve access to excellence, institutions and infrastructure for researchers from across the eu. however, there is a clear need for more targeted support aimed at helping close the research and innovation gap in the union. we ask the commission to work together with member states to identify policies and procedures that could support a better management of research careers, reduce precariousness, promote inclusion and diversity, and ultimately increase the quality of science produced. we firmly believe that era cannot be complete without guaranteed academic freedom within the union and without upholding the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union related to academic freedom, the freedom to fund higher education institutions, and the freedom to conduct business. in this regard, we underline that academic freedom does not only entail an individual dimension insofar as it is associated with freedom of expression, and specifically in the field of research, the freedoms of communication, of research and of dissemination of results. in order to achieve a strong research base in europe, we need coherent efforts. we therefore welcome a reaction from the commission to these matters. and i know that the ambitious, energetic and extraordinary commissioner mariya gabriel will be able to make this era a reality.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members because the oral question they raise today gives me the opportunity to present the ongoing actions in a number of areas identified in our communication on the european research area (era) last year. first of all, the commission attaches the highest importance to research careers, as researchers and their activity are fundamental for the full implementation of a reinforced european research area, and for the development, growth and resilience of our society. we have already started working on the update of the definition of the taxonomy of researchers’ skills and on the update of the european skills, competences, qualifications and occupations (esco) classification. we intend to complete this work by the end of this year. in particular, the commission is developing a list of researchers’ skills and occupations to be included in the esco classification with a view to improve the representation of the research profession. the new taxonomy will be transposed at national level for the european mobility portal, eures, and it will be used by europass for all the services the new platform provides. both initiatives will contribute to a better recognition of the research profession and will provide the necessary conditions for researchers at all career stages, including young ones, to be equipped with the skills and competencies they need for a successful career. the marie skłodowska-curie actions will remain the main eu instrument for researchers’ career development and mobility. the new marie skłodowska-curie actions further emphasise the role of excellent doctoral training programmes beyond academia, as well as the involvement of other sectors, namely businesses and smes, in order to ensure better career prospects for early career researchers. another important element of the toolbox will be the era for you initiative. currently at the design stage, this mobility scheme is designed to support exchanges between industry and academia and to encourage researchers towards entrepreneurship. the one—stop—shop portal, based on the new current euraxess services network and portal, will also be developed to help researchers with all their needs. the era talent platform will have enhanced features to make it more usable, more interactive and better fit for the purpose. as regards the academic freedom, the new era communication underlined the commission’s intention to propose a pact for research and innovation europe. one of the objectives of the pact is to provide a renewed political impulse of the european research area by reaffirming the commitment of the member states to the values and principles of the era, including academic freedom. the recently adopted communication on the global approach to research and innovation also identifies academic freedom as one of the fundamental values that the eu and its member states should promote and protect internationally. further work in developing and promoting principles for international cooperation in research and innovation will be carried out in the recently created era forum for transition. second, the oral question also looks at how private investments in r&i can be encouraged in order to accelerate the green and digital transitions and foster a resilient and socially equitable recovery. the commission has proposed the ambitious but realistic target of achieving public r&i investment at european level of 1.25% of gdp by 2030. in the context of the recovery and resilience facility and the european semester, the commission engages in in-depth policy dialogues with the member states with the aim of supporting structural reforms and fostering investments. the commission regularly monitors r&i reforms and investments in the context of the european semester and era. preparatory work is being conducted for an era scoreboard, which will monitor the relevant dimensions of the era, including investments. the last point raised in the oral question concerns the narrowing of the gap in r&i. research and innovation are critical to boosting the resilience of europe’s societies and economies, and to supporting europe’s competitive leadership in the global race for technology. therefore, europe needs to bridge the persistent innovation divide. member states have the possibility to invest in r&i policies and reforms with support from the cohesion policy or the recovery and resilience facility should they make this a priority in their plans. but place—based policies alone are not enough to close the innovation divide. in this context, horizon europe, in synergy with the other eu programmes, will continue measures targeting lower r&i performing countries through its widening participation programme, which will benefit from an increase in funding to almost eur 3 billion for the period 2021—2027. a reinforced regional innovation scheme of the european institute of innovation and technology will also be available for the 2021—2027 period. in horizon europe, traditional actions to widen participation will be combined with measures to promote brain circulation, improve the quality of the proposal of legal entities from less performing countries, boost the activities of national contact points developing matching services, promote excellence initiatives, and enjoy ongoing r&i collaborative projects. synergies between all eu funding programmes for r&i and with national and regional funding schemes are encouraged and will become more simplified than in the past. finally, the commission has also set up a number of instruments, such as the horizon policy support facility and the technical support instrument to assist countries to define and implement necessary r&i reforms and enhance policy learning across policymakers.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european research area is of crucial importance for our union. providing the right conditions for scientific activity means contributing to economic growth, job creation and the well-being of society in general. there is a need to continue investing in science and innovation, with particular attention to fundamental research both at the european commission and at the level of each member state. recovery and resilience plans are an opportunity to strengthen investments at national level, bearing in mind the long-standing target of 3% of gdp devoted to these areas. i hope that the member states will be ambitious in this respect. equally important is to provide the conditions for researchers to develop their activities. europe must have the capacity to attract and retain researchers. particular attention should be paid to young scientists, whose activities have been particularly affected by the covid-19 pandemic. creating these conditions means providing decent careers, fighting poverty, but also providing access to infrastructure, information and data, and empowering research centres and universities. only then will we have the research excellence that europe needs.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president of the court of justice, our real work must not be left out of our plans and strategies, and if we are serious about europe's green course and the challenges of digitalisation, research and innovation must become truly european. the european research area is now a framework which we all have to fill with real content and not wait another 20 years for results, as has unfortunately often happened in the previous chapter. first, member states must effectively motivate themselves to reach that 3% of research expenditure, including by diverting money from the structural funds, next generation eu and so on. european money must effectively reduce disparities in research budgets between member states, including by giving the european commission greater powers to influence them. secondly, we must think about the next and the next generation of european researchers. a considerable number of member states, particularly in eastern and central europe, but also in europe as a whole, are suffering from brain drain. clear career opportunities for young researchers, clear social guarantees and the possibility of returning to one's home country - all of this must be organised by europe collectively if we are not to expose our geopolitical opportunities to the packages. finally, we must safeguard academic freedom as one of europe's core values. my dear colleagues, european science has always been excellent, and excellence is the key criterion in science. however, we need to recognise and develop this potential for excellence in all member states and not just in a few. we therefore call for action to be taken to make the european research area a reality. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i represent latvia, which is geopolitically close to russia, in the european parliament. and our history, unfortunately, teaches us not to indulge in naive illusions in relation to authoritarian regimes in russia. using disinformation and other forms of hybrid interference, russia kremlin is also constantly interfering in our domestic politics and trying to divide our society, including putin's active support for the belarusian dictator lukashenko, including his hybrid coup, which is now cynically organizing the flow of migrants to latvia, lithuania and poland. strengthening independent media is one of the answers to the kremlin's manipulations. the european union has taken the first steps towards a comprehensive media policy and i am convinced that within this framework we need to establish a strong european media fund. adequate support for independent media is needed both within the european union, with particular attention to those countries bordering russia, and for free media in the eastern partnership countries and russia, as this is the way to expose putin's authoritarian regime and to strengthen the hope of the people of russia and also of belarus that change is possible.
i'm not going to tell you what i think. a year after the suppression of the belarusian people's aspirations for freedom and democracy, belarus is closer to russia's military-political footprint and further from a partnership with europe than ever before. and this regime is at war with its own citizens. but lukashenko's dictatorship, as inhuman as the ammunition in a hybrid war, has made asylum seekers flee to the european union's external borders, namely poland, lithuania and latvia. we must act appropriately. for each new regime that commits such human rights violations, we must respond with targeted sanctions against the regime's actors and officials. it is in this context that it is fair and right to grant free travel to the european union to representatives of the lukashenka regime. i really hope that all member states will support this decision soon. but however bleak belarus may seem today, we cannot write off belarus as a potential european country and accept its glittering incorporation into russia today. we cannot achieve the transformation of belarus with the european window of opportunity and the instruments of sanctions alone. we must strengthen the democratic opposition in belarus. the president of the republic
madam president, malicious cyber operations against the european union and its member states are the result of the opportunities offered by the digital transformation. the attacks on our societies are changing, they are increasing, and it is time to address our technological and legal vulnerabilities, also in the international structures that we are part of with our allies, but not only with them. these attacks fall hardly within the scope of article 5 of the nato treaty or article 42 (7) of the teu, but have a very dangerous cumulative strategic effect, and the eu must fill the legal vacuum by reinterpreting the latter article and article 222 tfeu to improve our collective defence. just yesterday - mr paet said it - we could see what a malicious attack against critical infrastructure could be in our real life. that's why we need to increase autonomy and technological capacity. without our own capabilities we do not have the best opportunities to defend our rights, our values, our lives, our security. security and defence therefore require the promotion of european innovation, with a european character, by economies of scale, with the guarantees of our historical and political acquis.
the chairman of the counting session! i would like to thank my good colleague, mr. urmas paeta, for sending me the report on cyber security. this is a subject that is very close to virtually every area of life, because the risks and vulnerabilities associated with the development of information technology are universal to us. i'm convinced that we're not doing enough today to raise awareness and prevent cyber threats. it is therefore very important that we in parliament keep a constant watch on activities that would help our citizens, the member states and the european union more broadly to become more effective in the field of cybersecurity. most cybersecurity is about preventing and dealing with the consequences of cybercrime. it's the most widespread form of crime, the one that most directly affects us all. access to essential services, as well as business and everyday life, is increasingly a target of cybercrime. in addition, we need to address more closely the security and defence-specific cyber threats emanating from the offensive arsenal of authoritarian regimes. this is where the eu and nato need to work together in a meaningful way. we must make good use of the capabilities of both the european union and nato to protect our citizens and our member states. i would certainly recommend a vote in favour of the report.
madam president, the picture could not be any clearer. for state actors hostile to the eu, like russia, the cost of attack is infinitesimally smaller than the rewards, and that has to change. for critical entities across the eu, including the irish health service, the cost of doing nothing except repair and remediation was much less than the cost of adequate protection, and that has to change too. while we have to be conscious of the difference between cybersecurity and cyber defence, particularly as regards governance and oversight, i believe that non-aligned member states like ireland have nothing to fear and everything to gain from an adequately resourced european cyber defence policy, particularly as a domain of operations of the eu’s common security and defence policy (csdp) to which we have contributed significantly over the years. eu democracy is not something that can be complacently handed down from one generation to the next. each succeeding generation must earn it afresh.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for their report. we are all well aware of the prevalence of cyberattacks now and their potential implications, and the digitalisation of our economy and cybersecurity, they need to be developed in tandem. the data economy can only flourish when we have full trust and confidence in our products, our applications and our infrastructure and we need to do what we can to guarantee that. cyberattacks may also include disinformation and attempts to interfere with our electoral processes, and those who attack our critical infrastructure of our society also attack our society and our way of life. so eu values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law are now under threat. so we need to look forward and to develop a strong cybersecurity roadmap in the interests of consumer well—being, protecting our critical services and safeguarding our businesses and our economies. it’s important that all interconnected infrastructure and products in the eu are secure by design, that they’re resilient to cyber incidents and they can be quickly fixed when vulnerabilities are discovered. they’re the practical implications, and we need to have a better coordination between our governments, since cybersecurity to a large extent can be a national competence, but there is a cross—border element there. so to help achieve this, we should strengthen the role of the european network and information security agency. and we need to end fragmented approach in our national laws on cybersecurity, for infrastructure and for connected products and services.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this document, because cyber defence is now also an opportunity for small member states to make their solidarity contribution to the common defence of europe. in contrast to traditional defence, relatively low investments in cyber defence can produce considerable results, as the baltic states have shown. one of the things i would like to highlight, in addition to all the things mentioned in this report, is the need for public cybersecurity, because it is the actions of individual users that often influence cyberattacks and hybrid operations. the european union's resilience starts and takes root in each of us on our computer and mobile device, and so basic knowledge of peeking, multifactor authentication and other cyber hygiene issues is just as important as knowing that you can't cross the street at a red light, and that's where the european union's money is invested. so the problem with cyber-savvy today is, of course, the multi-billion dollar companies that have billions of people tied to their technology, and they often act as monopolies. but all the risks associated with their use are often passed on by these companies to the whole of society, many of whom will never have the cyber-skills or the resources to protect themselves. this is where regulation and clear rules are needed. thank you for this report!
for the ecr group the president of the court of justice! good night, my colleagues. the documents just released by former facebook employees clearly show that facebook has been lying to us for years about its fight against disinformation. facebook is well aware that its algorithms are fueling hate speech, lies, conspiracy theories and fake news. facebook knows that this platform is used by authoritarian states to manipulate elections both in their own homes and in our democracies. facebook has the means to prevent this. but facebook's leadership clearly prefers profit over public health and safety. we therefore need to complete the digital services act so that researchers and journalists have access to data, regulators have the right to impose fines if global players deliberately continue to spread disinformation, and very large online platforms are obliged to provide adequate resources for content moderation and to communicate with users in all official languages of the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president! my fellow citizens! this is a truly crucial moment to strengthen the european union's media and audiovisual sector. unfortunately, the media ecosystem was already fragile before the pandemic. the last decade has seen a significant deterioration in the situation of media freedom and real risks to media diversity. the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated existing problems and created new ones. auditions are moving even faster to online platforms. the money flows mainly to global, non-european players, who do not properly feed back into the european media ecosystem. the european media last year experienced a significant drop in advertising, one of the main sources of revenue for the media sector. for example, in my country, latvia, the media advertising market fell by 16%, but facebook and google alone were able to accumulate three times more advertising revenue from the latvian media market than the local players. in the audiovisual sector, cinema and distributor box office revenues have decreased by 70% overall due to the covid-19 pandemic, and film production activity has fallen by 30%. at the same time, the covid-19 crisis has reinforced the importance of quality journalism. today, the work of professional and operational journalism in the face of a pandemic is costing lives. in this context, the european commission's action plan 'european media in the digital decade' is a good starting point. i will now turn to some of the policy initiatives contained in the european parliament's report. first, we call for substantially increased financial support for the media and audiovisual sector at the level of the european union and the member states. the funding available in the current multiannual budget programmes, including 'awareness europe', 'digital europe' and the cohesion funds, should be increased. we also call on member states to provide support to the media from national recovery plans and to implement tax policies that are favourable to the media. in the report, we welcome the new 'emerging europe' cross-sector portal and the news initiative. however, we also pointed out that the aid available was not sufficient, despite the range of problems that needed to be addressed urgently. we call for the establishment of a permanent european union media fund with adequate funding in the next multiannual budget of the european union, and here it should be added that any public funding for the media must be based on the so-called arms-length principle, fully guaranteeing editorial and artistic freedom. we also call for a level playing field to be established that ensures fair competition between media and platforms. the legal acts should provide for transparency in the operation of algorithmic systems and in the rules on advertising. we also need to ensure that global digital platforms, like media, pay fair taxes. part of this revenue should be channelled back into the circulation of the news media and audiovisual sector in the member states. the report also calls for the european audiovisual and cinematographic heritage to be made more accessible to audiences and for its digitisation to be supported. we also call on the commission to develop a set of cinematic tools. it is necessary to integrate film literacy at all levels of education, thus helping, in particular young people, to better understand the diversity and history of european cultures. my fellow citizens! in conclusion, i would like to invite us to be aware that the situation in the media markets of the european union is very different. media operating in smaller markets, including smaller countries, local, regional, cultural and other niche media face additional challenges. here, market principles are not able to ensure an economically viable media business. in addition, in some member states, such as the baltic states, there are also high geopolitical risks posed by malicious interference by third countries in the information space. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and their teams, the cult secretariat, the media and the audiovisual industry for their contribution to the report.
mr president, what we are experiencing in poland is a test for the union and it’s a temptation for quite a few politicians and probably even some governments across europe, so that is exactly why we adopted the regulation and rule of law conditionality, designing it as a tool capable both to curb and prevent temptations. now we need to go further. we need effective and timely implementation in cases of breaches of the rule of law, like in the case of poland, and it will be probably very complicated to do it without aligning all european instruments available. when adopting rule of law conditionality regulation, the parliament, the council and the commission agreed to consider including the conditionality into the financial regulation upon supervision. we expect and we want to see the proposal by the commission in the targeted revision of the financial regulation set to be presented already this year. let’s act in a consistent way. i believe the recent events in poland are a very good example and an argument for the commission to include rule of law conditionality in this proposal as from initial stage, so we can combine our efforts to protect both the values and financial interests of the union.
madam president, addressing you about the union budget 2022, i will start with a story from my country. latvia is entering full-scale lockdown tomorrow, including a curfew after 8 p.m. the latvian government failed to take control of the covid pandemic. as a result, latvian citizens are depending more and more on various forms of support, both from the union budget and different ways of financing. at the same time, we see that the council is cutting budget 2022 and the commission is planning to reallocate finances from its crucial programmes vital to citizens of the union, both in latvia and in other member states. for instance, a new health authority, hera, is getting established and the commission plans to finance it by taking money from horizon europe, eu4health and resceu. this is a controversial example about policy concerning the budget of the union. as for good examples, voting for the budget, we support providing more information by this house about the union and the european parliament in the languages of national and linguistic minorities and regional languages. by the way, one of the reasons why the latvian government failed to fight the virus was its inability to communicate effectively with the country’s linguistic, primarily russian-speaking, minority. this vote should serve as an important message for member states. thank you, rapporteurs, fellow shadows and colleagues.
for the ecr group good evening, colleagues. good night, commissioner. how are you? i think we should look at the european education area as one of the initiatives that will determine the future of europe. if we want to see the european union as a region of excellence, global competitiveness, creative diversity and sustainability, we need a smart society that is motivated by lifelong learning. however, the ambitious rhetoric of the european union must also be accompanied by adequate action, for example, initiatives to improve digital skills must be able to reach all citizens of the european union. in pursuing the objectives of the european education area, the different starting points and possibilities of the member states must be taken into account, and we must not end up in a situation where a single approach not only reduces but even continues to widen the gap between member states. on the other hand, if we really want to develop technologies and other sectors of future importance, we need to invest more in so-called smart specialisation education, and here i see a special role for the european university initiative. unfortunately, some of the figures are not very encouraging for the european union, for example, the uk has more undergraduate ai programmes than the eu as a whole. nor are the countries of the european union among the top 10 universities in the world for computer science. the legal framework already provides for a shortage of highly skilled digital professionals in europe, which is one of the reasons why we do not have a recognised technology giant in our own country. i therefore hope that the higher education alliances and other initiatives supported by the european education area will be able to offer solutions to such future challenges.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like first to express gratitude to my colleagues, co-rapporteur monika hohlmeier and shadow rapporteurs for their support for the united position on what this house wants to see from the targeted revision of the financial regulation. we have the new mff package that includes now ngeu and it’s a new reality for everyone. we need a regulation that’s in line with these changes to the whole eu budget. but revision of the financial regulation is not about technicalities only. well-designed, ambitious revision shall make our union stronger and better capable of protecting both its values and its money. it’s our opportunity to ensure everyone respects the rules of the game and introduce clear costs for anyone who fails to follow this regulation, from beneficiaries to top national government representatives. talking about costs, we can assume there is a relationship between respect for the rule of law and the efficient implementation of the european budget. the commission must consider the rule of law conditionality regulation adopted at the end of 2020 as part of the mff 2021-2027 agreement, and provide a proposal with a view to fully aligning the financial regulation provisions to the conditionality regulation. i should outline that we don’t want to launch a new debate on the rule of law principles. it is clear the agreement we have right now was not that easy to achieve. but if it’s prohibited to cross the road at a red light, no one should be ashamed of repeating this ban in any piece of traffic rules. we want results of previous debates to be implemented in real life. we want alignment of principles that were previously agreed on in every piece of european regulation. that is it. nothing else. rule of law, social issues, protection of environment, gender equality, these are questions of utmost importance not for this house only, but for every european. the eu budget is obviously our main tool. that’s why we need to use eu funds to promote climate and biodiversity mainstreaming, social conditionality or gender budgeting, and track the impact of eu policies on them. in order to be successful we must align eu spending with our objectives and values, and the financial regulation is exactly the right place to do that. up to now we’ve use the committed appropriations only for horizon europe. extending the possibility to reuse the commitments in areas other than research and innovation is important. we cannot allow this targeted revision of the financial regulation to become a missed opportunity, ending up getting a set of awkward and sophisticated requirements. it takes political will to achieve success, so it cannot be easy. but lacking political will could result in creating bad opportunities to abuse the european budget across the continent and for the devaluation of core european principles. and this would undermine all the efforts done before – i’m referring to ngeu and the introduction of european bonds. it is said that the commission will not publish its proposal this year, but only in the first trimester of 2022. such a delay is worrying. this delay also implies we might not have enough time to complete revision before may 2024, and that would be a major failure for all european institutions. apart from timing, even more worrying is the possible content of the proposal, with messages that issues like externally assigned revenues, borrowing and lending, rule of law conditionality, gender, climate and social mainstreaming may not be included in the proposal. here i would like to bring an illustrative example from my home country, the country i obviously know the best. one of the ministers recently publicly assumed that municipalities would face problems to get access to ngeu money if they’re run by the wrong political party. by the way, that was the minister of welfare. isn’t it a shame? this is a particular example why we have to do more to protect european union values through a sound financial regulation and even assumptions like this should be a no-go for any member state. commissioner hahn, you are well known as a highly experienced pro-european politician. you can rely on the full support of this house if the ambitions of the proposal of the commission will meet the needs of all europeans. our goal is to create a regulation that guarantee transparency and budgetary overview and which would serve any other instrument being possibly introduced to fight new potential crises our union can face. thank you and good luck to all of us in getting the regulation done.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. today, an artificial migration crisis is unfolding on the border of belarus - a new weapon, in fact, being used against the european union. and it is clear that lukashenko wants to divide europe first, but he is not succeeding, thank god. european unity is crucial here, and i'm talking about three things first: our border security is a european common concern. what is happening at the polish, latvian and lithuanian borders today will be echoed elsewhere in europe, and this also requires joint investments in border security, including infrastructure. secondly, the humanitarian crisis that lukashenka has created on his own border must be swiftly addressed by involving international organisations, providing them with access to the border and helping lukashenka's deluded people to return safely to their home countries. thirdly, european asylum legislation needs to be adapted to these new hybrid crash possibilities where people are effectively hunted across borders, while not compromising our common values, such as asylum seekers and asylum seekers should not have to cross a border in any way, but could do so outside the european union. we need to respond in a timely manner to such attempts to use migration as a weapon and people as instruments in the geopolitical games of dictatorship. thank you.
mr president, (inaudible) keep on addressing me with one question. how come that eu money is used to buy a new piano for almost eur 200 000 for the presidential palace, at a time when, for example, healthcare or education are still under-financed? quite a few latvians also believe eu money is used to pay for increases in salaries for ministers. this house did a great job achieving an ambitious eu budget 2022 that covers various financial needs across the continent and also serves as an example for at least some member states. just some figures from the new budget: an additional eur 86 million for healthcare, eur 35 million for education, eur 47 million for the environment, and it’s a clear message for latvians and all europeans, your healthcare and education systems can always rely on support from the union, but there will never be any money from the eu for pianos or salaries for national ministers. thank you, and a special thank you to colleagues, karlo, damian, johan, commissioner hahn and the council.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, violence has ancient roots, but it has new forms in which it manifests itself, and these new forms require all of us and our strategies to be renewed, to find new ways. the forms of violence change over time and today they can use the help of new technologies and virtual space, but all this has very concrete, very serious consequences on the lives of women and, in general, on the lives of people. the many cases of revenge porn and generally of intimidation and harassment that are being practiced through facebook, through twitter, through messaging apps, through virtual space have shown that the amplifying effect is devastating. we know of women who have taken their own lives because of this, others who have been forced to change their names. failure to address all of this leaves women dramatically more alone. and that is why this parliament is called upon to respond now.
dear madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. dear commissioner, i have to ask you to excuse me. you guys! women have been the first to suffer from social media attacks during the covid pandemic. in my country, it is women - doctors and nurses, family doctor specialists - who are the ones who are silently explaining the importance of vaccination, and it is they who are also the targets of the constant attacks of the various anti-vaccine trolls, not only because of their scientific convictions, but also, and especially, because of their gender. unfortunately, neither latvian nor european union laws are sufficient to adequately address this cyberbullying against women. it is therefore urgent to extend the definition of hate speech to include sexist hate speech, as called for in the resolution. and we also need to recognize the damage that has been compounded during the covid pandemic, when restrictions on movement increased the risk of domestic violence and also expanded the use of cyber tools for threats and emotional violence, and especially against women who are involved in the pandemic management of doctors, nurses, medical staff. europe has to do something here!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is, i think, symbolic that we are now talking about this topic during advent, the use of wild animals in circuses, because it is really a question of humanity first and foremost, that we have no moral right to use the suffering of other living beings for our own pleasure, because even after several generations of captivity, wild animals are still wild animals with their own specific behavior. it is a good thing that the vast majority of member states have already recognised it, but it also needs to become a european standard. but until the commission comes forward with such a proposal, we urge those three member states that have not yet put any restrictions on the use of animals in circuses to do so anyway, because the next generation of european leaders of today will be measured not just by the buildings they build or the roads they repair, but by whether they have been able to make europe more humane, and i think this ban would be a great opportunity to do that.
