in writing. – naturally, the common eu approach on a strategy to assure the development of a covid-19 vaccine, and the eventual immunisation of the population, was commendable and deserved across-the-board support. still, many doubts remain about its implementation. first, complaints have arisen about the rhythm of deliveries of vaccines at a european level. despite being major players in financing the development of a vaccine, eu countries are lagging when organising to administer it to their populations. second, many questions remain over the transparency of the whole process. how were deals done? how are they now being revised? and what constraints were allowed to pre-empt manufacture of the vaccine by a wider range of players in the market? has it been a simple case of accepting that under free market rules, pharmaceutical companies needed to maintain exclusive rights on the production of vaccines? yet one point stands out: in the current public health scenario worldwide, an anti-covid vaccine cannot but be considered as a public good. like it or not, it’s a war. if needed to secure the means to win the war, all private goods become public. so thirdly, what is the plan for a timely worldwide distribution of the vaccines?
the next item is the report by mr gieseke, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the revision of the guidelines for the trans-european transport network (ten-t) (2019/2192 (ini)) (a9-0251/2020). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the trans-european transport network is of central importance for competitiveness, growth and prosperity in the european union. a well-connected and efficient infrastructure is key to european integration. the commission has also examined the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market in the transport sector. the focus is now on increasing sustainability, ensuring multimodality and incorporating new technologies. in short, the way we think about infrastructure and mobility has changed. the time has come to revise the guidelines, not least in view of the impending delays in the construction and expansion of infrastructure. i am therefore grateful that the commission plans to publish a new proposal for the guidelines for the trans-european transport network in the third quarter of 2021. the european parliament is very interested in the subject: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the revision of the regulation now offers a significant opportunity to make the european transport network future-proof and crisis-proof. the transition to smart and sustainable mobility, as well as safe mobility, needs to be supported. multimodality and technological neutrality must be given special consideration as fundamental principles. i would like to make it clear that all modes of transport must have their place in the transeuropean transport network. this network must help the transport sector to reduce its emissions while ensuring the mobility of citizens at affordable prices. the report now before us is a clear commitment to complete the core network by 2030. the network cards must therefore not be fundamentally changed until the core network is completed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not crossed. the average delay of eleven years in completing selected major projects, as calculated by the european court of auditors, is indeed a cause for concern. the member states must do more to meet their obligations in this area. the digitisation of national administrative and judicial procedures needs to be further promoted, and this must also lead to an acceleration of processes rather than a slowdown. the european commission must therefore play a stronger and more active role in the implementation of the objectives of the trans-european transport network. the role of the coordinators must therefore be strengthened accordingly. the second important point which is particularly close to my heart is the link between the core and the overall network. we need to look very closely here. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a good one. the next few years will be crucial for the breakthrough of alternative fuels. the revision must make alternative fuels available for all modes of transport. an interoperable infrastructure corresponding to the projected needs must be planned into the network. the european parliament is calling for an eu roadmap for road infrastructure. we have the vision zero, it has to be a guiding idea, in the development of road infrastructure. too many people still die in traffic. the transport network of the future must also be equipped for intelligent and autonomous mobility solutions. we in parliament therefore call for research and development into innovative means of transport such as magnetic levitation technology. we have been arguing hard on this point, but it has now been passed, and that is a good sign that we are also committed to new technologies here. the report confirms the potential of shipping and rail to decarbonise the transport sector. inland waterway transport as a sustainable mode of transport deserves a future-proof infrastructure that ensures reliability, quality and continuous navigability. the european parliament also clearly recognises the important role of air transport in the global, but also in the internal connectivity of the eu. the multimodality of airports should be increased here. let me say a word about brexit: we agreed on december 24th, christmas. it was a difficult birth. this brexit will also have an impact on transport. it is important to ensure effective connectivity in ireland. the commission must pay particular attention to the impact of the withdrawal in the new border regions. cooperation with the united kingdom in the field of the trans-european transport network should be continued, provided that the united kingdom also participates in the financing. there will be no free lunch. full stop. ladies and gentlemen, i come to the end. the negotiations were not easy, especially due to the complications of covid-19. it had to be done online. we have nevertheless produced a comprehensive text which i believe is also worthy of the importance of the forthcoming revision. for that, i would like to thank all the shadow reporters, but also all the staff who worked hard. the commission's report clearly and unequivocally expresses parliament's expectations. i expect you to take our suggestions into consideration. and the work is not yet finished, the bill is still being proposed. in this respect, i look forward to continuing our cooperation from the third quarter of 2021. let's move forward together. it's good for europe!
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it’s again a great pleasure for me to be here today to discuss with you the foreseen proposal of ten-t network based on your report, which is a great one, and i want to start by thanking the rapporteur mr jens gieseke, all the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on transport and tourism (tran) for an excellent report. i really appreciate it and it comes with an important recommendation at a crucial moment when we embark on a post-pandemic recovery. ten-t remains the cornerstone instrument of forward-looking transport policy for some decades ahead. the development of the trans-european transport network is vital for the european integration process as it enables businesses to enjoy the full potential of the internal market. our citizens, in turn, benefit from seamless, safe and comfortable connections within the eu, bringing them closer together. the ten-t also plays an essential role for territorial cohesion, ensuring connectivity for all regions. the covid-19 crisis has certainly shown all of us the importance of well-functioning and coordinated transport infrastructure playing across borders. the revision of ten-t guidelines will therefore be built firmly upon the ambitious goals set by the european green deal, primarily focusing on decarbonisation of the transport sector. the new legislation will therefore place major emphasis on three policy objectives. first, greening of transport infrastructure will be of utmost importance, in particular through the wide deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. this can solve the current supply and demand dilemma. equally important is the digitalisation innovation in our transport networks, which is closely linked to our objective of making our infrastructure more efficient and resilient. gains in efficiency will help reducing further co2 emissions and will increase seamless connectivity. we also need to make the network resilient to new threats such as cyberattacks or challenges triggered by pandemic outbreak such as covid. last but not least, we aim at reinforcing the multi-modal character of our ten-t network by improving interoperability and the multi-modal integration of transport infrastructures through the european union and even beyond, through improved links with neighbouring countries. while a lot of progress has already been made towards completing the ten-t networks, some projects, especially those of a cross-border nature, are facing delays. in revising the regulation, it will be important to ensure that all possible steps are now taken to complete the ten-t on time. we will therefore strengthen the monitoring and management tools for ten—t implementation, for example by strengthening the role of the european coordinators and by reinforcing all our available tools, including through the new ten-t streamlining directive. in view of our ultimate objective of completing the core network by 2030, i particularly welcome the report’s conclusions that no major changes to the maps should be made. minor adjustments will certainly be needed and will be accommodated. at the same time, i would like to remind everyone that becoming part of the core network also implies certain obligations and commitments, such as meeting ambitious infrastructure standards by 2030. eur 300 billion will be needed over the next 10 years just to complete the ten—t core network and build it as a truly multi-modal system. this is why we need to be very prudent in extending the core network further and rather focus first on what we already committed to achieve. extending the 2030 deadline is not an option, and reducing the quality and requirements for the network is something we should also never consider. honourable members, this is just a first glimpse at what you may expect by autumn this year, without prejudging, of course, our impact assessment. the revision will address many other aspects highlighted also in your report. we aim to enhance protection to strategic and vulnerable infrastructure and improve some of the quality standards and requirements to make them future proof. improved accessibility for passengers with reduced mobility will equally be addressed in the revision. this is just to name some topics we have in mind. so once again, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this timely report and reassure you of my full commitment to make europe’s infrastructure an agile driving force for our economy. i am looking forward to your comments and questions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. we all know that a well-developed transport network is the nerve of the development and functioning of the internal market and of the competitiveness of the european union. that is why it is so important to build a single transport area of the european union, inter alia, through trans-european transport networks. it's very important to remove the narrowed throats. we had a chance to see how important this is when we were delivering personal protective equipment at the beginning of the covid pandemic. it is also important to remove all barriers and delays, which in some countries - as has already been said here - often amount to several years. we also need to modernise and adapt our infrastructure to the challenges of the future, so the alternative fuels infrastructure and the transition to smart, sustainable, intermodal, efficient and safe mobility are very important. the report also stresses the completion of the core network, with the necessary adjustments reflecting the infrastructure development of each country. i am talking here, among other things - on the example of my country, my province - about the inclusion of new sections in the ten-t corridors running through poland, including the corridor running through kraków to rzeszów. i also hope that once all the financial instruments have been adopted, the via carpatia project, which is so important for the carpathian basin, will be able to be implemented. let us not forget, too, when building new episodes... (the president withdrew the speaker's voice)
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, from the outset, trans-european networks have shown their absolute necessity for the proper functioning of the market, citizenship and, more recently, in the context of the covid crisis. despite the undeniable european capital gains, it is regrettable that there are delays in the implementation of major projects, especially cross-border ones. the objective of achieving the central network by 2030 seems to be compromised. we must urgently make efforts in this direction, particularly in the recovery: investing in our transport infrastructure means investing in our competitiveness. the upgrading of networks is also necessary to take account of new market realities, the rise of digital technology, alternative fuel vehicles, and the improvement of our resilience to global warming and its consequences. i believe that with this report parliament has struck a satisfactory balance between these different injunctions and is thus sending a message for future revision. commissioner, we hope that the commission's proposal will focus on the core network, that it will be cross-border, that it will focus on good environmental performance and also on smart ten-t. we think this preliminary report is going in the right direction. we are of course waiting for the commission's proposal and we believe that it will be a real challenge to meet the challenge of 2030.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. many of us are now eager to get out and travel again in europe. my vision is that when that happens, the sustainable option should always be the fastest and cheapest, and if that vision is to become a reality, we have to start with the tracks. the eu must do more to expand and consolidate europe's railways. if we are serious about fewer people taking the car, fewer people taking the plane and more people taking the train, we must also give priority to this in our investments. it is therefore wonderful that we have today succeeded in rallying a majority in the european parliament behind precisely those intentions. there will be greater efforts to remove bottlenecks and to remove missing railway lines. it will make it easier to book cross-border and interconnected train tickets in europe. we also want the night fog to play a crucial role in the green transition. you should be able to go to bed in one of the major cities of europe and wake up in another. the eu will be better equipped to steer the work of coordinating europe's different national transport systems and infrastructure in sparsely populated parts of europe, which is important, not least for sweden, which is on the periphery of the union. it is the first step in re-engineering europe's transport system in a greener direction. let's get on with that work!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. combining the potential of different modes of transport means greater efficiency and lower costs. the revision of the trans-european transport network is a great opportunity to put more emphasis on the development of multimodal infrastructure. i am glad that the rapporteur has paid so much attention to this issue. this requires not only the completion of investments already underway, but also support for projects that have undeservedly been given lower priority. i am convinced that the bydgoszcz transport hub, which is today part of the complementary network, fulfils all the conditions to become an important element of the core network as part of the planned ten-t revision. the existing and under construction railway, road and airport lines near bydgoszcz will be complemented by the intermodal terminal in emilianow. i hope the commission sees the possibilities. the via carpathia, which we have already discussed here today, should also be included in the basic network along its entire length, as the subcarpathian mp tomasz poręba has been consistently trying to do for many years. for the eu's easternmost regions, this road is an opportunity for economic development and new jobs. the polish government's project for the central communication port 'solidarity' should also be included in the revised ten-t network. cpk is not only an airport, but also a railway investment programme and a modern multimodal passenger hub, which certainly deserves the commission's attention.
mr president, the eu is only sustainable if it lives up to its expectations, if it can show tangible results. ten-t is about connecting europe; preferably, high-speed rail is the best alternative for flying and travelling by car. rail connections make it possible for eu citizens working abroad to visit their family back home. rail connections make it possible to facilitate tourists, and flying is not an option. unfortunately, bureaucracy and politics stand in our way. the lack of capability of eu members working together is evident. it’s the blind leading the blind. ten-t as it stands now will not be ready on time if we do not radically change our approach. if a relatively straightforward project such as ten-t can’t be managed on time, what does that tell us about the chances for a much bigger programme like the green deal? dear commissioner, the credibility of the eu is at stake here. we have to act now.
president, commissioner, how quickly can the vaccines be delivered throughout europe? that is a question that is rightly being asked a lot these days. the current health crisis has made it clearer than ever that transport and logistics must always be on. 24 hours a day, seven days a week. and what we want is actually very simple. we want our vaccines, our equipment, all of our packages that we're ordering now, to be transported quickly, smartly and sustainably from a to b. and that can be done, but only if our transport corridors are used as efficiently as possible throughout europe and our infrastructure is also really prepared for the future. i am also very pleased with this report, because it is precisely what it is about. we want to make it greener, by transporting a lot more over water than by road. we want to digitize it, by exchanging much more real-time information with each other. the transeuropean transport network must be future-proofed and its implementation must be based on a high level of security. and yes, there is a price tag. it costs money. but the only way we're going to get out of this crisis stronger is by investing and innovating.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report, which is largely acceptable, particularly because it stresses the need to invest in local and regional rail links, lacks a strong and clear denunciation of the enormous climate and environmental impact of the megaprojects financed by the european union, such as the turin-lyon high-speed rail link. a mega project certified by the european court of auditors is not only a clear example of mismanagement, where the voice of the citizens has been excluded a priori and hindered, but above all it is a project that will continue to release emissions into the atmosphere until at least 2050 and with heavy impacts on biodiversity. enough of these contradictions: if we want to be climate neutral by 2050, the commission cannot continue to finance projects that produce greenhouse gases and, moreover, claim that they are compatible with the green deal. this parliament should have the courage to denounce it, at a time when member states are ready to divert resources to these damaging works, in particular the resources of the recovery fund, taking resources away from a truly green recovery.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, investing in infrastructure for the mobility of goods and people is an extraordinary development tool, yet resources have been cut and too many items are being slowly worked on. the national recovery plans of the recovery fund need to be complemented with european resources to complete the corridors; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the railway system, in particular on the trans-border sections - i am thinking of italy, i am thinking of the brenner and turin-lyon sections - on the adoption of ertms technology for safe and interoperable rail transport, on alternative fuel infrastructure in all modes of transport to achieve environmental sustainability in practice, but also on the adaptation of the lines to a changing market. i am thinking once again of italy and the need to supplement the existing corridors by completing the high-speed railway on the adriatic-ionian ridge and the tyrrhenian-adriatic horizontal links. i am thinking of logistics and ports, which require major investments if we are to defend europe's strategic autonomy and sovereignty from the new chinese silk road. the ten-t networks are one of the best projects that this europe of the claudicating has launched in recent years. let's not stop believing in ourselves!
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur for his work and his consideration for introducing some of our amendments. the mediterranean corridor is an essential element of the trans—european transport network. this will mean the entry of up to 64 million containers from the suez canal. it would link the iberian peninsula from algeciras to the centre and the north of the european continent, passing through valencia, tarragona, barcelona, girona and perpignan. this will mean a 45% reduction in co2 emissions. however, investment should reach a minimum of eur 5.5 billion in spain, which is far from what the spanish government has planned in the budget for this year. there is not yet the interoperability between ports and airports that we need to make investment efficient. without a budgetary commitment from the members of the european union, in this case spain, the projects will remain, for more time than expected, just that – projects.
mr president, the ten-t corridors are the economic arteries of europe, therefore they must be developed further, making them smarter and greener. but we easily forget the political relevance of these routes, what building roads and railways meant to european cooperation and integration, how they help in making the eu the most successful peace project in the world. so we need to expand this effect beyond the eu borders, especially towards our closest neighbours such as the western balkans. for this reason the ten-t regulation revision must be used as an opportunity to create a firm legal basis for a more prominent inclusion of candidate countries such as serbia, montenegro or north macedonia, for example through appointing a dedicated coordinator for the region. the berlin process already resulted in new ten-t maps for the region. last year the transport community for the western balkans started to operate, not to mention the recent dedicated investment programme of the commission with flagship infrastructure projects. all these are very important political and financial mechanisms but we need to create better synergy. the ten-t regulation revision as the main legislative document in this topic is the place where we could create such a point of connection.
mr president, the upcoming revision of the ten-t guidelines is of crucial importance for the decarbonisation – the successful decarbonisation – of the transport sector, and the way towards this goal is electrification. for example, in 2020 we saw a massive surge in sales of electric vehicles. in the third quarter of 2020, almost 10% of all newly-sold passenger cars had a plug, and this number more than tripled compared to the third quarter of 2019. however, to stay on track we need more infrastructure, which, i have to say, we would already have, had not the member states undermined the ambitious commission proposal back in 2014. what we have to avoid is another west-east division. special attention must be paid to heavy duty transport. here we need a functioning network of mega-chargers and hydrogen-fuelling stations along the ten-t network.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to create a europe which is a strong geopolitical actor, infrastructure must be a priority. however, a change in approach is needed which recognises the strategic role of the mediterranean. so far, eu investment has been almost entirely devoted to developing the ten-t network in central europe, with the focus now shifting to the north and east. instead, it is time for europe to turn its attention to the south, to italy and its mezzogiorno, a bridge projected towards that africa whose stability is essential for the security and future of our continent, but which cannot fulfill this task because even today, in 2021, tens of millions of europeans living in the south do not have adequate motorways, trains, ports and airports to communicate with the rest of the world. yet, of the 150 billion needed to complete the ten-t in italy, the conte government has allocated only 30 billion in the recovery plan, a pittance. do you really want a united and secure europe? very well, take the example of ancient rome and build fast roads, bridges and railways to connect it, starting from that south which you have abandoned but which is an indispensable outpost for the future of us all.
mr president, i thank my colleagues for the report on the revision of the guidelines for the trans-european transport network. for all of us who live, shall we say, on the geographical periphery of the european union, it was clear from the very beginning of the ten-t project that it needed to be reviewed. in its first version, the new vision for the trans-european transport network ignored the transport and system needs of peripheral and core regions. i hope that this report will set the ten-t project on a new path. i would like to remind you of corridor 8, which is extremely important, key for the balkans and for connectivity in this region, and i would remind you that we must not allow what happened to the infamous mobility package to be imposed on us by the selfishness of some western countries, by means of absolutely lobbyist texts which, by the way, do not work at the moment, as everyone knows. i want to ask the authors of the mobility package how many hours the trucks are currently driving and where the drivers are sleeping, but that's on their conscience. i hope they're ashamed of what they've done. i don't care what it is! a major project: corridor 8 has to happen and this project has to take a new path.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, welcome back and a good year. thanks to mr gieseke, we have now drawn up a proposal which is certainly a good basis for the work that awaits the european commission: the commission will have to tell parliament and the whole of europe what it thinks of the revision of the impressive network of the so-called ten-t, on which the enormous infrastructure network of our continent is based. the project is progressing slowly and we have no reason to believe that without changing the method, that is to say without changing the approach radically, this pace will increase. the reason for this slowdown is not just bureaucracy, the reason for this slowdown in investment is the uncertainty about the model of economic development that we believe we are achieving with these infrastructures, the trickery with which some think they are challenging this europe based on the free movement of people and goods, whose premise is the freedom to undertake, to build, the idea of creating a fake europe, in which green infrastructure replaces that entrepreneurship and that enormous manufacturing excellence that europe has always brought to the world. to rebuild the infrastructure network properly is to reiterate who the european man is and what europe must be in the world today.
mr president, the ten-t is not just a transport infrastructure network, but an essential element for bringing peoples and people together to experience the european way of life. the ten-t is also the backbone of our economy. there can be no common market without railway, airport, road and port infrastructure, which allow citizens and businesses to move freely throughout europe. in particular, i appreciated the pragmatic aspect of this report - its focus on the ten-t of the future, which should not only promote the implementation of digital technology in all transport modes, but also work to anticipate the needs of the network for the future. as an islander, i note with satisfaction that the report mentions the importance of rural, remote and island regions being connected through the ten-t. a powerful way to start doing this is by recognising the essential role of motorways of the sea and short sea shipping. in conclusion, it is time to start looking at our ports, not only as transport hubs, but also as digital and energy hubs.
madam president, with the biden administration we should expect that relations with the us can now resume on the basis of a civilised and coherent dialogue. however, the deep dilemmas that gave rise to ‘trumpism’, both inside and outside the us, will remain, and it will be difficult for president biden to clear them. first, president biden will have to try and bridge the deep divide between americans who are riding with success the ongoing technological changes after having recovered from the effects of the 2008 crisis, and the other half of us society, which has been losing out in the post-modern economy and was badly mauled by the financial crisis. covid—19 is likely making this divide deeper. meanwhile, outside the us, the president will have to determine how best to manage the race with china for global predominance. europe needs to position itself correctly in this context. given its ideological and cultural affinities with the us, it will seek to promote close cooperation with the biden administration. however, it should not appear as a member of the us racing team, nor be one.
madam president, over the last four years the us administration has implemented policies that challenged its partners and surprised its force. with today’s inauguration of the new president of the united states, a new chapter will commence. nevertheless, the us is entering a new unprecedented era as a divided society. it will also impact its place in the world and, by extension, its ability to work with europe on common peace and security issues in our neighbourhood and worldwide. this will require extra efforts on our side to export, support leadership and resources to maintain our important transatlantic partnership. i highly welcome the fact that an american return to multilateralism is high on the new administration’s agenda. re-joining the paris agreement is a big step forward in its global fight against climate change. i congratulate the new president of the united states of america and his vice-president and wish them and their people and the people of america good luck.
madam president, let me start by wishing our us allies and partners well. i am confident that the restart that the world expects will materialise. but i also want to refer to the scenes that we witnessed in the last month. i don’t often quote arnold schwarzenegger, but he was right when he said that it started with ‘lies and lies and lies and intolerance’. the world watched transfixed as the shining city on a hill was ransacked and violated before our very eyes. the mob, after being egged on, enabled and encouraged for years, stormed the united states’ seat of democracy. there are many lessons for us to learn here. in europe, the shock gave way to realisation that the weight of the world’s democratic order now rests more heavily on our shoulders. it is true of course that the new administration of joe biden and kamala harris brings with it new hope of better cooperation, of new transatlantic expectation, of optimism and a return to normality. but europe’s role on the world stage cannot be undervalued. our belief in liberal democracy, founded in values and the rule of law, matters, not just to all our citizens, but to millions more people around the globe looking to us for hope. with increasing hostility to our east and uncertainty to our west, europe matters. standing up for the rule of law matters. defending democracy matters. leaders’ words matter. never underestimate how fragile our democracy is.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, members of the european parliament, after this interesting debate, it’s clear for all of us, and especially for the commission, that the transatlantic partnership remains the most important and strategic relationship for the european union and its member states. the stability and prosperity of both sides of the atlantic is deeply affected by our ability to work together. all of you have been expressing hopes, that we share, that a very good understanding of what europe means for the us interest and policy is a cornerstone of our future relations. we are also very much aware that in the past four years, they have delivered an important lesson for the eu for a policy engagement with the us. what has happened has to be taken into consideration in order to build our future relationship, and we should improve our capacity to anticipate the us internal drivers that at the end shape the us foreign policy. certainly we have now a historic opportunity to rebuild and to reinforce our relationship, to effectively address together the needs and challenges of the 21st century. in the post-corona world, transatlantic cooperation will revitalise the international rules-based order. as i said yesterday, you had to make multilateralism great again, based on our common values, interests, and pursuing global influence on the western world. dear members of the european parliament, most of you have been expressing your convincement that a more assertive, more capable and more resilient europe will be the best partner for the us. enhancing europe’s strategic autonomy will allow for a better cooperation when it comes to the security risks of today and those of the future, and i am sure that the new american administration will understand that and will put in practice a pragmatic framework for this new transatlantic partnership. you have been talking about the specific areas of cooperation: being partners and multilateralism. this will mean that we need to push for reforms of the united nations organisations that preserve its democratic foundations, but being more ready, more able, to face pressing global problems. it’s very good news that the paris agreement will be accepted by the us as the framework to fight against climate change. only with that the new presidency will make a strong difference on the role of the us in the world. thank you very much for all your interventions. i think that together with the council we will be able to build a new partnership based on dialogue among equals, to preserve the security and defence of democratic values in the world. (applause)
president of the european council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we watched with astonishment the attack on the capitol on 6 january and experienced it as an electric shock which demonstrated the fragility of what we deeply believe in, because it is the dna of the european project, the values of freedom, the rule of law and democracy. if we choose to do so, this electric shock can be a lifesaver because a new page is now opening in the united states, one which, if we are committed, will enable us to build with this ally to whom we are attached for historical reasons, for reasons based on values, this new founding pact which must be the occasion to be mobilized around the three pillars which must be the pillars of this european project. on the one hand, the values of democracy, the rule of law, this permanent, constant commitment. in recent months, moreover, in the european parliament/council debate we have committed ourselves in europe to making concrete progress in this commitment to governance and democracy. we must remain vigilant and engaged on this issue. the second essential pillar is the prosperity we want, which is to improve our living conditions by using climate change as a lever to change the paradigm of our development, our ability to meet the needs of our fellow citizens. the idea that we must support innovation, strongly support this ambition, climate neutrality by 2050 and the strengthening of the 2030 objectives that we decided on a few weeks ago in the council. finally, the third point i would like to highlight is the commitment to a globally mobilized europe, international cooperation, measuring our strengths and working to correct our weaknesses. a more resilient europe, a more robust europe, is the call i want to make on this symbolic, important day: the inauguration of a new presidential term in the united states. we open our arms, we reach out, we know of course that there will be sometimes difficult or tumultuous debates, but we share the essentials. i thank you for your commitment to this democratic parliamentary debate, and you can count on the european council to maintain this strategic commitment to an alliance that is fundamental to our common future.
in writing. – the 2020 us presidential election was historic for many reasons. never have so many americans cast their vote in the country’s history, in what may be viewed as a firm expression of disapproval for the misconducts of the trump presidency. the outgoing administration has disregarded centuries of us—eu cooperation – one that helped bring peace to our own continent. president biden has vowed to undo the wrongdoings of his predecessor, starting with the reinvigoration of the transatlantic relationship. a strong eu—us partnership means strengthening the international public good and common values, including democracy, security, human rights and gender equality. biden has also promised to re-enter the paris agreement, bringing back to the table a player that can afford an enormous contribution towards decarbonising our world. a new us administration will also allow for new consultations on the benefits and threats posed by digitalisation. in particular, we expect the us to help us fight disinformation and hate speech – the plague of our century. this election was historic for many reasons, though one of them stands out. kamala harris’s election as the first woman vp is a landmark achievement in gender equality, setting the tone for many more to come.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the three debates you have organised today have one important point in common. the common point is how can we guarantee more social justice, how can we guarantee all european citizens, wherever they live, a number of fundamental rights without which we cannot organise our lives? this goes for the covid crisis and its impact on employment, it goes for those who have already been hit by this crisis, it goes for those who are in poverty and it goes for those who are victims of the housing crisis. there is a broad consensus on this right to housing. housing is not just an economic sector, an object of speculation, it is a right. and since it is a right, it must be put into practice, it must be guaranteed to everyone, and i believe that this is what efforts must be made for everywhere, in all the member states. it is indeed necessary to ensure that housing is accessible, affordable, that there are social housing. it is also true that, in the context of renovation, which is central and can be a major asset, both socially and economically, especially to get out of this crisis, there are also dangers, this has been noted by some, and the danger is that you renovate and you evict. in fact, you're making these renovated homes unaffordable and that's what you have to avoid because it's called gentrification. neighbourhoods that used to offer housing to people at a certain rent level suddenly become inaccessible once the housing is renovated. and that's a danger, because it increases, it aggravates the housing crisis and it also aggravates social injustice. when we look at the evolution of rents, especially in many urban centres, and the evolution of wages, we see that the range has been completely opened up. so, of course, we must act in a coordinated way, each time in a national and local context, on the issue of platforms which, in the end, immobilise thousands, hundreds of thousands of homes. the problem of unoccupied housing due to land speculation needs to be controlled, as well as investment in affordable housing. moreover - i have just seen my colleague from the economics department arrive - housing is a social problem, but it is also an economic problem. it's a major economic problem. we know that sometimes the housing crisis takes a different form. it takes the form of bubbles with financial crises at the root, so i believe that there is a european dimension that should not be overlooked, that should not be ignored. thank you for this debate, thank you for this report. let us act and the commission will be there.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, 20 january 2021, while the final vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 21 january 2021.
the agenda includes the report by alex agius saliba, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, with recommendations to the commission on the right to disconnect (2019/2181 ((inl)) (a9-0246/2020)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
rapporteur. – mr president, today we live in an always-connected world. digitalisation and digital tools have brought many new opportunities, both in our personal and also in our working lives. it has created benefits, it has created advantages for employees such as greater flexibility and less commuting times. but it has also its pitfalls, such as the constant pressure on workers to always be reachable, to always be available at all times. digital tools used to work have created the phenomenon of always being connected: an always-on culture, creating digital obesity that can intensify work and extend working hours with a detrimental effect. a detrimental effect on workers’ fundamental rights. a detrimental effect on fair working conditions. a detrimental effect on fair remuneration, on working time and on work-life balance, on health and safety at work, on the equality between men and women. digital tools make it particularly difficult to switch off in our free time. we all know the feeling of always being under constant pressure to check: to check for work-related emails, work-related messages, worried that our immediate attention is required. we all have been in situations where we receive work-related calls, emails, and we feel obligated to reply. more than ever, in the aftermath of the covid-19 pandemic, the increase of telework and working from home, we have been victims: victims of our phones, of our emails, of our computers. the covid-19 pandemic has fundamentally changed the way we work, and we must therefore update our rules. during lockdown, one in three workers started working from home. this has saved countless lives, but many workers suffer and are suffering from harmful side-effects, such as isolation, fatigue, depression, burnout, muscular or eye illnesses. people who regularly work from home are twice as likely to work more than the maximum 48 hours. the boundaries between work and private life have become blurred. the human cost is high, from unpaid overtime to exhaustion, to burnout. it is fundamental that we protect workers from the invasion of their rest time and to ensure that their right to rest and leisure and a maximum limit of the workday are safeguarded. and for this, we need the right to disconnect to become a fundamental right, a fundamental right to each and every worker throughout our union. therefore colleagues, i strongly urge you to support this own-initiative report. we are calling on the commission to propose a european directive on the right to disconnect. the report is putting forward a fully-fledged, developed legislative proposal with the minimum requirements for using digital tools for professional purposes outside our working time. it provides for the right to disconnect for all workers in the eu, and it ensures that digital tools are used as an asset benefiting employers and workers while their adverse effects are mitigated. it provides workers with the right to disconnect, switch off and refrain from engaging in work-related tasks, activities or communication outside the working time. the report is also introducing safeguards to workers against any victimisation or negative repercussion if they use this right. employers should enforce this right and not require workers to be directly or indirectly available or reachable outside their working time and provide them with sufficient information and methods to support the right to disconnect. the report also recognises the social partners’ pivotal role and tailors its implementation to the specific needs, depending on the different national and regional levels, sectors, and industries. those are the main elements of the report, providing the right balance. the right balance equally positive for both workers and also employers, and i am counting on your support to show solidarity with european workers, especially during these difficult times of the pandemic. please let us stay focused on the right to disconnect. the report will help millions of workers in these challenging situations. nothing in it or in the amendment tabled by me intends to undermine the social partners, neither limit the commission’s legislative power to propose legislation on the right to disconnect in early course. the report or the amendment in no way can change the treaties or limit the commission’s legislative power or veto the european legislation. social partners in europe are fully autonomous in what they negotiate. for me it is clear that we, as european parliament, cannot interfere in this process, and the amendment should not be interpreted as making any legislative proposal contingent on the framework agreement, which, as stated in paragraph 13, addresses some arrangements for connecting and disconnecting and no other aspects of the right to disconnect. (applause) i call therefore on the commission, on the commissioner for jobs and social rights, schmit, if the european report is adopted, to act immediately, through consultation with social partners, and put forward a proposal for legislation on the right to disconnect, because only through european legislation we can ensure the real impact on the very-much needed workers’ rights in the digital world. colleagues, we have a fundamental choice to make tomorrow. we either provide workers with the right to disconnect or turn our backs on them. my choice is clear. i hope you can all support the right to disconnect for all european workers. (applause)
madam president, the media has become indispensable today. companies like facebook, today, have become indispensable utilities in the modern world. utilities through which our citizens are getting information, working and also shopping. but one aspect that also came out clearly during the pandemic was the central role that social media plays in our lives. but at the same time social media is also presenting us with new dangers. this is because it is now playing a crucial role in the way information reaches our citizens and therefore is affecting the behaviour, decisions and actions that each of them takes around the world. political pressure is mounting. people are asking about the role, the extreme powers and censorship control that these companies have. it is worrying that we are witnessing daily dishonest practices, intrusions into our private lives and abuse of our personal data, which are being used for the benefit of a few companies. dangers to society are created when they act irresponsibly, both ethically and socially. it is alarming that they are deciding every aspect of our lives. it is unacceptable that they end up dictating the regulatory framework in which they want to operate. the current legal framework is not adequate. it is not adequate to respond to the challenges these companies are creating on a daily basis. democratic scrutiny of social media and the protection of our fundamental rights is an important necessity. we therefore need a fair and transparent regulatory framework in order to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, safeguard public interests and protect our fundamental rights and freedoms. dsa and dma are golden opportunities to do this.
madam president, whether you think it’s good or bad that donald trump has been banned from social media is not the right political question. the right question is whether the ban of donald trump should have been decided by silicon valley, or by transparent democratic policies. we govern ourselves here. we govern our own political sphere, and that means that liberal democracy should set standards for social media companies. companies should make policies out of those standards, and they should be upheld, not by us, not by companies, and certainly not by governments, but by independent oversight. they should ensure that what is illegal offline is also illegal online. but we have clear evidence that our democratic security is also at stake. the issues of voting integrity, health crises or national security emergencies can be intentionally undermined both by foreign and domestic actors, and i would like to remind the house that such malicious intent is also illegal offline, and should be online.
mr president, social media platforms such as twitter, facebook, instagram have provided tremendous new opportunities for people to interact and interact. what are the rules that these platforms have followed? they are based on the commercial interests of these platforms themselves. now their economic and social power throughout the world has grown to such an extent that this cannot continue. it is important for us in europe to ensure that the laws that we have in place in society apply equally to social media and the internet. it is important that european values, democracy, freedom of expression and human rights, are also realized online as in the real world. it is also important to incorporate these more precisely into legislation, and this work is currently being done. at the same time, it's important to remember that when we want to fight the disinformation, the propaganda, the fake news that's rampant on these platforms, the most important way is still to invest in people's skills. good literacy, good digital skills, high-quality and free media are the best ways and the most effective ways to also combat fake news, propaganda and disinformation. so while we are clearly setting the rules for the internet, that what is otherwise illegal in european societies is also illegal on the internet, we also need to support people's skills and digital skills.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank the honourable members for this debate and for all your opinions and views. for me it is extremely important to hear the opinions of this house because this is the first broad debate about if, and how, to regulate the internet if i may simplify that. and i take several main messages. first, what i heard from the vast majority of you is: it’s time to get to work. if we are not ambitious to become the rule-makers we will continue to be the rule-takers, the rules which have been created in silicon valley and which are imposed on our territory in the eu. so it’s time to get to work with a sense of urgency and i very much count on the european parliament and your approach to adopt the legislation which the commission proposed soon enough. also because we see a lot of impatience on the side of some member states who want to go their own way. they want to have their own rules for the internet and i think that it was quite clear also from this debate that we want to have a pan-european smart solution without any fragmentation by member states. the second main message which i got is that we are searching and working on the ideologically-neutral solution that the rules we are going to adopt should not be left or right, and that we will seek the solution which will protect the freedom of speech as the primary principle. so these are the main messages i took from this very important debate. coming back to the rule-makers, what we are doing is the continuation of the effort of the eu to be the rule-maker with global effect. we already managed to do that with the gdpr where we said that individual people must have the right to have their identity, their privacy, under control. and now we are coming with a set of, i hope, consistent rules which are also consistent with the gdpr and its philosophy. we are coming with the digital services act, the digital markets act, the european democracy action plan, and by all that we want to prove that the eu has a very healthy instinct when it comes to the risks which we see on the internet and which can cause big harm to our societies. what i heard from many of you was that the digital big tech grabbed too much power and too little responsibility. i would add i agree with that. the platforms captured a lot of public space. i sometimes say that they privatised the public space, and this is a public space without any public scrutiny whatsoever. so this is also our task: to demand more transparency and more accountability, because what’s happening online is heavily influencing real life. i think it was mr tudorache who said that there is no difference between online and offline, that it’s one world. i tend to agree with that. on the other hand, it’s quite easy to blame the internet and platforms for all our troubles. i think that we should really take a lesson from what happened in the us at the beginning of january. the platforms for the transmitters of the messages of the former president trump who was inciting violence, whipping up the crowd who then invaded the capitol, and there were victims, there were dead people. so i think this is also a very strong goal on all of us who have influence on public opinion and on the reaction of our society to be more responsible and to be aware that social media can be a weapon, a dangerous weapon in our hands. i am not calling for self-censoring for politicians. i am calling for more responsibility and awareness of the consequences when we use these social platforms and social media. i would like to recommend that you read madeleine albright’s book fascism: a warning. she speaks about social media as a weapon when it is used by bad people, when it appears in bad hands. let me react to several comments regarding disinformation in the time of covid. i’m sure you know that the commission has an agreement with big tech to do more against disinformation. so it’s not true that they have just started now, and i appreciate the recent announcement of facebook that they want to do more against disinformation relating to vaccination. the agreement is simple. i wanted them to enable more space for information from authorities, from health authorities, from those who are responsible for communication and for providing the people with trustworthy and evidence-based information. for the health sector i think that is a very clear message: if you do not occupy the space it will be occupied by disinformation. the ministers of health are aware of that and they do their best. i have to praise them for everything they are doing in this very difficult moment and crisis, and they are doing their best to occupy the space with reliable information. the thing is that the people have to trust the information provided by the health authorities. the fight against disinformation also contains what we offer or what we propose. it contains fact-checking. honourable members, let me do this now. i have to react to mr haider who said that the eu has not invested anything into the development and production of vaccination. this is fake news, and i think that if something like that is said, it’s also our obligation to come with the facts and deny that. i also want to react because we speak here about the freedom of speech. i want to react to those who were mentioning the situation in poland. i think we all have seen the black screens. the black screens are quite telling. i think they are screaming. today it’s a question of protest of the media in poland, expressed in a black screen. tomorrow black screens might become a sad everyday reality. we also need to protect the freedom of speech by supporting independent media, not by suppressing them with additional financial burdens. this doesn’t apply only to poland. we have recommended many times to the member states that they should support also financially media who are also the frontrunners in the covid crisis, media which were already before the covid crisis under big financial distress because the business model has changed brutally. the money from advertisers is being shifted to the online sphere which we keep speaking about today, and so we need to guarantee that the media can do their job because they have a very important role in our democratic societies. so coming back to the law which we are now analysing. i have to say that we always advise the member states to support media, as i said, but coming to the law, we are aware of the draft law and we need to look into it in more detail. we expect member states to ensure that their fiscal or other policies will not affect the commitment to ensuring a free independent and diverse media ecosystem. i have to add that about the legislative process, which is ongoing in poland, that it is important to consult such legislation also with the media sector, and i understand from the recent information from poland that this is foreseen. i am sorry, i probably was longer than i wanted to be, but i really wanted to react to many of your very important opinions, which i had to take.
acting president of the council. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank parliament for its valuable contribution to this debate and also thank the commissioner for her replies, while ensuring that the council remains committed to continuous work to protect and promote the fundamental rights of our citizens. this issue should be the subject of a constructive and transparent dialogue between the co-legislators and the different stakeholders. we need to talk to the platforms, to civil society, to the experts, for the sake of our citizens. the council is firmly convinced that digital technologies can make a significant contribution to the protection of fundamental rights and democracy, provided that democratic processes and the necessary appropriate checks and balances are safeguarded. how can we adapt our legal instruments to the speed and immediacy of the online world? how can we achieve and ensure the right balance between freedom of expression, media pluralism and the protection of citizens' rights against hate speech and disinformation online? how can we improve the digital education of our citizens? it is for these answers that we need to work with the european parliament, seeking legality, transparency, diversity and freedom of expression. the diversity of information and the plurality of voices are integral parts of our democratic systems, but let us not forget that safeguarding them also means ensuring protection against violence and hatred, protection of minors, protection of consumers. the digital space needs to be safe for all of us. that too is part of the rules of democracy.
in writing. freedom of expression is a universal human right and traditional and online media must operate unfettered to fully realize themselves as public goods. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products'. the rules and the scope of responsibility of online platforms for content published on the internet through them should therefore be designed to contribute to enhancing online security on the one hand and to guarantee the protection of the fundamental rights of internet users, in particular the freedom of expression, on the other. i hope that the package of planned regulations for online platforms will establish clear, transparent, precise and fair rules for the management of content by online portals. it is equally important to have mechanisms in place to counter unjustified removal or blocking of content, as well as to remove illegal material from the internet quickly and effectively. the digital services act must protect citizen-based democracy and all that goes with it: anonymity, free speech for all, respect for opinion and artistic publications, and of course equal treatment of users and consumers.
in writing. – whether we like it or not, we are at the dawn of a new era. it will become all the more difficult to distinguish between what is true and what is not. we will reopen for debate principles and axioms across all areas of knowledge, which generations before ours had fought strenuously to prove as correct. indeed, we live in times where a click from an individual or the decision of a ceo can disprove or set back achievements accomplished by humanity in centuries. fortunately, we still are in a position to decide our own course of action, to cooperate in international fora, setting the foundation of a future digital world that respects – rather than degrades – humanity and dignity. people today believe the world is flat, individuals disregard freedom of speech, and far too many, not comprehending fully, take for granted the great achievement that is democracy. we cannot allow social media platforms, which have become essential for today’s social, economic and political discourse, nor their users, to continue to spread lies and hatred. we need checks and balances that include effective laws. we need to protect what we have achieved and ensure a decent future for all.
it's a great achievement to have this report. it is also symbolic for me that this will happen at the same time as the european commission presents its disability strategy 2021-2030. i have been a member of the european parliament for 12 years. since i was entrusted, i have been in constant contact with the representative organisations of people with disabilities in hungary and internationally, because i am convinced that they know best what they need. this principle was followed as far back as 2010 when i prepared the report on the european disability strategy 2010-2020. it's been a decade. the new strategy is here and so is the new european parliament report, which i was one of the shadow rapporteurs on. mrs. langensiepen was a wonderful partner. the result of our joint work is in many places a fait accompli. they're a nice way to say "hello" in the lyrics. i would like to highlight three: one is to promote a new kind of human rights-based approach to education; the horizontal collection of data on people with disabilities, who have not been previously collected; and the removal of communication barriers, because until now, at the european union level, the focus has been on physical barriers or on removing them. i am satisfied, but i will not rest, but i will continue to work with the same enthusiasm.
i have to say, madam president, it is 2021, but unfortunately we still have very big challenges with the employment of europe's more than 80 million people with disabilities. only about half of all disabled people are in employment, and only those who are considered to be able to work are included. people with disabilities have an equal right to a working life where they earn their own money and have a community with their colleagues, whether they are in a wheelchair or on the autism spectrum. there is something we can do. in the eu we are demanding the appearance of the workplace and we have far too few demands today on the adaptation of the workplace or the use of new technologies. even for the most common disabilities. when the workplace is not spacious, millions of people are deprived of the opportunity to work. so let us do something about the spacious workplaces. it can be done.
the principle of subsidiarity also applies to equal treatment of disabled people in the labour market: the need to provide appropriate support at every level, starting with the local community. if we ask member states to encourage employers to employ disabled people, we must also set a good example in our own member states. the employment rate of disabled people in belgium, for example, is well below the european average. the belgian and flemish governments are far short of the 3% quota and are lagging behind in europe. access to and improvement of mobility and accessibility of buildings are also a task for local authorities. in drawing up measures, the commission should not be guided by the 'over us, without us' principle. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. i would like to conclude by stressing the key role of carers and also that it is the appropriate support, moral and financial support that they deserve.
madam president, work gives you dignity, and yes, work can also give back dignity to people with disabilities. work is a crucial element for independent living as well as an elementary factor for effective participation the full participation of people with disabilities in our society. therefore, although the union is a signatory to the united nations convention, persons with various disabilities continue to experience ongoing discrimination from education to the right to live an independent life, from the rights to an adequate quality of life and social protection to the right to work. last week, the commission published the european strategy for people with disabilities for the next decade, and on this occasion i would like to thank commissioner helena dalli for her work. but now it is important to see that this strategy has an impact on the lives of these brothers and sisters. it is our duty to ensure that people with disabilities live in an inclusive union and the right to equal treatment in employment is one of the best expressions of equality and integration.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for their interventions. i have taken due note of the various points raised during this debate. i would like to address the following points from the debate, which are of particular importance to me. first of all, the installation of cctv on board should be only voluntary. that was raised. the voluntary use of cctv for control of the landing obligation is an illusion. since the adoption of the common fisheries policy in 2013, member states have already had the possibility to impose cctv for the control of the landing obligation, but it has not happened and the illegal discards are continuing. control tools cannot be optional. they should apply in a non-discriminatory way to all vessels belonging to the same risk category. on your remarks that cctv poses a risk for the personal data of operators and their staff, let me reassure you that the commission is mindful of the importance of ensuring personal data protection because the objectives are to monitor possible discarding and slippage of marine resources. the cameras do not interfere with the lives of the crew. the european fisheries control agency (efca) has designed guidelines for the installation of remote electronic monitoring, including cctv, on many large vessels and smaller vessels. yes, due to the pandemic, i didn’t have a chance to visit many of your constituencies, but the ones i visited have had cctv cameras installed on board for many years. so i do not think this is a recent issue. and let’s not forget that the cameras on fishing vessels may also help to improve the working conditions of the fishers on board. on the margin of tolerance, let me recall here one of the fundamental principles of the common fisheries policy, the accurate reporting of catches. without this, setting quotas just has no purpose. the rule of 10% per species has been foreseen in the eu for more than ten years, and it is not changed by the commission proposal. this rule applies to all fisheries in the different sea basins. the margin of tolerance is meant to mitigate and discourage under—reporting, especially for species subject to quotas because they are in a fragile state. some of them, such as yellowfin tuna in the indian ocean, are overfished. most tuna are fished in the waters of third countries and landed in third countries where controls are not performed to the same standards as in the eu. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the tuna fisheries provide as accurate estimates of their catches as possible and use all available means and technologies to enable those estimations. techniques and technologies available today and their use on board the large majority of fishing vessels, in particular the larger ones, make it possible to estimate catches much more accurately than ten percent while at sea. if we managed to send men to the moon in the 1960s, we can certainly estimate catches within 10% accuracy in 2021. on small—scale fisheries, over 80% of the union’s fishing fleet consists of vessels below 12 metres, accounting for more than 40% of employment. they are the backbone of our fisheries sector. small-scale fisheries, therefore, play an important role in the union from a biological, economic and social perspective. as such, it is fundamental to have accurate fisheries data from all fleet segments, including the small-scale and recreational ones, to measure the real impact on fish stocks. this is for the long—term sustainability and productivity of stocks and for the social, economic and employment benefits of the small-scale sector that depend on those stocks. some of you have raised concerns as to the burden and costs of electronic reporting for small—scale fisheries. let me be clear that there will be no further burden on small—scale fishers. digital and smart solutions are already available and they will be accessible at zero cost. the new european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) managed to secure 100% aid intensity for small-scale vessels. finally, i cannot respond to some of the remarks made, but i have of course to address the commission’s outreach with meps ahead of the european parliament bid. i fully agree with and am extremely respectful of the commission’s and the co—legislators’ respective institutional rules. the treaty foresees that the commission promotes the general interest of the eu and that it submits a legislative proposal to that end. the commission proposal for fisheries control foresees the establishment of a modern and efficient control system, ensuring the green digital transition. in the various discussions that have taken place in the committee on fisheries (pech) over the last weeks and months, my services voiced their concerns regarding certain amendments, drawing parliament’s attention to the possible consequences, including as regards critical issues of coherence with the other policy areas, such as trade for example. this is part of our institutional role and this is what is expected from the commission. this has nothing to do with interfering in the decision—making process of democratically elected institutions. the political decision is yours, but it is our duty to raise awareness and to sound alarm bells where necessary as regards possible problematic consequences, including on other policies. in this spirit and in full respect of our, and your, role, we have also brought these concerns to the attention of other members of the european parliament beyond the committee, namely because of the potential impact on other policies. i believe that this increases the transparency of this democratic process and is therefore indeed in the interests of our citizens and, more broadly, the general interests of the european union. on the allegations that the commission is criminalising the fishers, no, we do not criminalise fishermen and women, quite the contrary. i know very well that most of them comply with the rules and try to make a living, complying with the rules. the commission is on the side of the fishers, especially on the side of those that comply with the rules and contribute to sustainable fishing. but that is the whole point. we need to protect fishermen and women who are complying with the rules. we need to protect them against unfair competition with those not complying. when catches are not accurately recorded and reported to circumvent fishing quotas, when one is using an engine above the authorised power or when illegal discards take place, let me be very clear, not complying with the rules is unfair competition. strong controls protect legitimate operators. the fisheries sector should therefore support the use of cameras, accurate catch reporting and control of engine power instead of combating it. a strong control system is essential to implement our ambitious common fisheries policy and thus to protect our valuable fisheries resources and to sustain the livelihoods of our fishermen and women, and of course our coastal communities in general. without effective control and enforcement, the best policies risk remaining toothless. we need an effective fisheries control system to ensure that everybody plays by the same rules. i want to be very clear that this is, first and foremost, in the interests of all the fishermen and women who, day by day, respect the rules and are those contributing to sustainable fisheries. it is their interests that we all should have in mind on a daily basis, and is for them, and with them, that we want to modernise the control system. i am sorry for taking this long, but i really wanted to answer all your concerns.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today and the final vote tomorrow.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by sylvie guillaume, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the activities of the european ombudsman annual report 2019 (2020/2125(ini)) (a9-0013/2021)
madam president, madam ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, the report to be voted on this week concerns the activities of the european ombudsman in 2019. as rapporteur on this dossier, i would like to congratulate you, emily o'reilly, on the excellent work of your previous term, of which 2019 was the last year. i would also like to pay particular tribute to your unwavering commitment to guaranteeing the highest ethical standards in the institutions and agencies of the european union in an independent manner. combating the risks of maladministration or conflicts of interest, but also ensuring the necessary transparency of the institutions' activities towards the public, i believe this allows for better involvement and greater scrutiny by citizens, thus strengthening the institutions' accountability. i also want to commend the effort you support, which may be less visible on a day-to-day basis, but which must certainly be clearly visible to citizens who make complaints and to those who look at the ombudsman's annual activity reports and measure the work done. i am talking about the responses to citizens' complaints. the commission's task, as laid down in the treaties and in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights, is to ensure that european citizens have the right to have their cases dealt with fairly and within a reasonable time by the european administration. i want to take as evidence the 2 201 complaints handled in 2019, the 552 investigations based on closed complaints and the 456 open investigations which are obviously only part of the work. in addition, there are eight closed own-initiative surveys and two open surveys which aim to examine wider systemic issues for greater efficiency and impact on citizens. and i want to see further evidence of this in the new systems put in place to speed up the handling of complaints and i am pleased that the new strategy, which is to guide the ombudsman's activities until 2024 and which was unveiled in december 2020, confirms this commitment. 2019 marked the end of the previous mandate of the european ombudsman and was sanctioned by her re-election. proof, if necessary, of the positive assessment made on its balance sheet. nevertheless, our report takes the opportunity to insist on improving the status and powers of the european ombudsman's office, so that it is better equipped to fulfil its tasks and objectives, which are essential for the proper functioning of the institutions and guarantee their openness. i also call on the institutions and agencies to cooperate more systematically and respond positively to the recommendations made by the european ombudsman. on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of its institution this autumn, the european ombudsman's office was able to measure the evolution of its achievements over a quarter of a century of actions, supported in its objectives by the european parliament, the committee on petitions and also by the network of european and regional ombudsmen set up during the previous mandate and which could constitute an interesting force in the future. the report covers 2019 and since then, 2020 and the covid-19 pandemic have been there, revolutionizing for an indefinite period of time the usage and may be the order of emergencies. despite the radical changes that have taken place, the priorities identified by the european ombudsman's office remain, today more than ever, as valuable to defend and guarantee within our institutions and agencies: i am of course talking about transparency, high ethical standards and greater efficiency, which in short defines good administration. the ombudsman's evaluation of the actions carried out in 2020 will be the focus of the annual report next year. some of my colleagues wanted to anticipate this and i understand them. there are a number of shocking issues that will be worth our full attention in a pandemic-driven year, and i think we'll definitely hear about vaccinations, labs, blackrock and mckinsey. i therefore want to give emily o'reilly a strong encouragement in her determination to continue to lead with the same high standards in her work of investigation and recommendation in the current context of this very special year.
ombudsman. – madam president, i’d like to begin by first of all thanking ms guillaume and all of the shadow rapporteurs for your work on this report, and i also welcome the presence of commissioner sinkevičius. but i’d also like to begin by thanking parliament staff who have worked so hard over the last year to ensure the continuation of its important work and to keep everyone safe. i also thank my own staff for ensuring that our service to the public has continued at a high level despite the personal and professional challenges that all of us have experienced. as ms guillaume has alluded to, this devastating pandemic has taught us many lessons, including the critical importance of trust in institutions, of being open and honest with the public in a time of crisis, of how everyone benefits from collaboration and of how central public administrations remain in the resolution of major crises. all of these matters go to the heart of what an ombudsman does. in addition, the european ombudsman is a part of the rule of law infrastructure of this democratic union. i am therefore heartened when i hear this parliament champion support for the rule of law in the member states, aware that this support must also be demonstrated in everything the eu administration itself does. all of these issues have been reflected in the complaints i received in 2020, and which i have sought to address through my own-initiative strategic work. never more so than in challenging times are the highest standards of good administration and transparency required to reassure the public that decisions taken are correct, proportionate and transparent, and that measures will be implemented properly and fairly. in the absence of that, public trust will decline and the challenges faced by administrations in encouraging the public to take certain actions to beat the pandemic may be hindered. your report and our debate today concerns the work of my office in 2019, which was the final year of my first full term and coincided with my re—election in december 2019. i would again like to take the opportunity to thank you for your vote of confidence in my work. in 2019, over 2 000 people submitted complaints to my office, a number of which i would like to highlight. one which has particular relevance in the current context concerned the way in which the european medicines agency engages with pharmaceutical companies before they apply for authorisations to market their medicines. the inquiry, which also included a public consultation, resulted in the agency introducing measures to improve the independence and objectivity of the process. specifically, ema agreed to introduce a log of the scientific advice concerning medicines going through the market authorisation process. this advice will be made public once the medicine is approved for sale in europe. the agency has also said that, to the greatest extent possible, the experts who are significantly involved in advising pharmaceutical companies in the pre-market application phase will not be those who draft ema’s evaluation report for a new medicine. in the current context, where ema has been required to make recommendations on vaccines for covid-19 in record time, it has been working with a fast-track procedure. this is something i am currently looking into as part of my work in 2020. parliament will be well aware of my office’s ongoing work on council transparency and two cases in particular demonstrate how the absence of such transparency has important real-life consequences. one concerned the council’s refusal to increase the transparency around the way in which national ministers negotiate the annual eu fishing quotas, and i’ve been listening with interest to the debate that preceded this. the all—night negotiations are legendary and their secrecy has long been taken for granted. but the world has never before been as acutely conscious of fish stocks and sustainability, and the eu never before as ambitious about the protection of our fragile environment. a new approach, in my view, is therefore imperative. some advances in transparency were made by the commissioner last year, but more needs to be done by the council. another case concerned the lack of transparency around the positions of national authorities on the risk assessment of the effect of pesticides on bees. this involved guidance given by efsa as far back as 2013 – almost eight years ago – and which has yet to be acted on. the lack of transparency allows this vital advice simply to sit there with no capacity for the public to influence a change because they are not allowed to know who is blocking the adoption of this guidance. i fully appreciate the need for space to deliberate but not, as in this case, apparently, indefinitely. an important inquiry i closed in 2019 concerned the way in which the then commission secretary-general was appointed. despite an initial negative response to my recommendations, within just a few months the commission did conduct a specific appointment procedure for a new secretary-general to serve under the new president, president von der leyen. that case demonstrated a notable feature of the work of the ombudsman. sometimes a result can be achieved immediately, at other times it takes time for a recommendation to be fully realised, especially if it involves a change in a cultural mindset or a different approach by a different administration. the two council cases referenced above are cases in point. given the pressure for greater transparency – encouraged by the pandemic – and given the eu’s great climate ambitions, i predict a different result should similar cases arise in the future. in june 2019, it was my great pleasure to present the winners of the second edition of the award for good administration – an important way of recognising the overwhelmingly good work of the administration. there were numerous inspiring projects, with the overall award going to the teams from the european commission that had worked on the eu initiative to reduce plastic pollution and raise awareness. we are now looking forward to the third edition of the award, which will be held online in june of this year. as european ombudsman, i also coordinate the european network of ombudsmen – which comprises national and regional ombudsman institutions from 36 european countries and includes parliament’s committee on petitions. the 2019 annual conference took place in april in parliament’s premises in brussels and, ahead of the european elections, the main theme was how to strengthen the participation of citizens in the democratic process. looking ahead, i am eager to continue the implementation of our ‘towards 2024’ strategy. i hope to achieve a further positive impact on the eu administration, maintain the real-life relevance of our work and, by raising public awareness of our activities, enable citizens further to exercise their rights. madam president, honourable members, parliament and the ombudsman are important allies in ensuring the eu’s accountability. parliament provides democratic oversight and my office provides administrative oversight. i thank you again for your great support for the office of the european ombudsman and, as we hopefully emerge from the pandemic, i very much look forward to continuing our valuable work together over the coming years.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very pleased to represent the commission in this important debate today. let me start by recalling the 25th anniversary of the european ombudsman that we celebrated in october 2020 and the essential role this office plays in maintaining public trust in the european union, ensuring that the union’s administration works in an open and transparent way, and safeguarding the integral idea of european citizenship. i would like to take this opportunity to once again personally express my praise and gratitude to the current ombudsman, ms o’reilly, who has shown great dedication and commitment to her work. i will turn now to the main subject of today’s discussion, the european parliament’s resolution and the report of the committee on petitions (peti) on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2019. these are annual cornerstones of good administration in the eu institutions, bodies, agencies and offices of the european union. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms sylvie guillaume, the coordinators of the peti committee and all its members who have been involved in this work. as every year, this report provides the views of the european parliament on the issues that it considers noteworthy in the area of good administration procedures. the field of action of the ombudsman is broad: correspondance between the institutions and citizens, contractual issues between citizens or companies and the european administration, late contractual payments from institutions or agencies, requirement issues, and other staff matters, such as the implementation of anti-discrimination measures applying to requirement procedures. all of them remain in the remit of the ombudsman. as always, transparency is high on the agenda, notably in the area of access to documents, international negotiations, advisory bodies, or of the eurogroup bodies, the transparency register, but also with other issues, such as job changes between the public and private sectors and the declaration of conflicts of interest. the commission has multiple interactions with citizens, businesses, associations and ngos, and is naturally the main addressee of the ombudsman’s inquiries. the commission attaches great importance to its relations with the ombudsman and her services and is strongly committed to finding a solution to the problems raised by citizens. we will continue to work in this constructive spirit and hope all other institutions, bodies, offices and agencies do the same. while it is not always possible to reach agreement on every case, i am pleased to know that the acceptance rate of the ombudsman’s proposals by the commission has increased to 75%. in the field of suggestions for improvement, the rate is even higher, and the commission responded positively in 48 out of 53 cases in 2019. this is a clear demonstration of the constructive character of the relations between the ombudsman and the commission and the eu administration in general. further good news for european citizens is that the ombudsman very rarely finds that maladministration has taken place. i conclude by noting the positive progress of the discussions on parliament’s proposal to review the statute of the ombudsman between the council, parliament and the commission. all the teams involved, including the team of rapporteur paulo rangel, have been collaborating in a very constructive and open manner. i look forward to hearing the views of the honourable members, and i thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague sylvie on the good work she has done on this report. i would also like to congratulate ombudsman oreilly on her re-election as european ombudsman, thanking her for the excellent work she has always done to ensure that the european union moves forward on the basis of the best standards, where good governance, transparency, ethics and accessibility are concerned, where the services that the european institutions offer to our citizens are concerned: accessibility that ultimately does not exclude and does not leave anyone out. it was gratifying to see the inquiry conducted by the ombudsman on accessibility in the digital tools that the commission offers to people with disabilities and it was even more gratifying to see the positive response of the commission, where a genuine effort was made to put the ombudsman's ideas and suggestions into practice. we must lead by example, and we must ensure that all the digital pages of all the institutions are accessible to everyone, including in national sign languages. i would also like to thank the ombudsman for swiftly and without delay initiating another important and necessary investigation into the accessibility of olaf's digital tools, where, following a request from a european citizen with visual impairments, action was also taken. it is our duty to represent every citizen and to act appropriately when the highest standards are not met. this is the only way we can keep european citizens at the heart of the decisions taken by our institutions and i therefore say that the ombudsman's office is still relevant because it continues to act on the expectations of our citizens.
madam president, how do we tackle the economic impact of covid-19? well, the economic recovery is not just about money but about individual employees, entrepreneurs, business owners and other people that make up the european union. the pandemic has provided an opportunity. we should not simply wish to return to how things were, but to rethink how we do things and come back better and stronger. in particular, this is an opportunity to reaffirm and implement our commitments to a green and digital future. now more than ever, we are aware of the importance of digital literacy. we need to invest in educating children and upskilling adults in this area to ensure that we have a competitive workforce. the green transition also has a vital role to play in the recovery and a competitive europe. to take just one example, the renovation wave will have a big impact on reducing carbon emissions while creating green jobs in local economies. between lockdowns, distance learning and higher levels of youth unemployment, young people in particular are suffering right now. we need to secure a bright future for our young people, create quality jobs and build back better than ever. earlier today, i spoke about investeu. this programme will create conditions to allow us to increase competitiveness and reach the goals we are speaking of today. i have no doubt that, together, we will build back better post-covid.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, without vaccines there is no recovery. without the union the vaccine race would have been a disaster, we would not have a single extra dose today and we would have a fight between the states. as regards the speed of the updating procedures, which has been the subject of much discussion, europe has opted for the safety of the scientific method guaranteed by the ema, in order to safeguard the absolute principle of the health of citizens. other areas of the world have opted differently, taking a big risk, starting early, of course. we must now speed up, but all the contracts were concluded with the agreement of the states which chose the quantities and types of vaccines, and there is no point in blaming europe for the difficulties. we call on the european commission to do all it can to protect the interests of european citizens and to demand that pharmaceutical companies respect their contractual commitments, with heavy sanctions, including the blocking of exports. we want transparency and a major effort to increase production capacity. and on patents, of course, you have to protect the capacity of intellectual property, but we're in a global pandemic, the business risk is minimal, given the certainty of sales and the development has been supported by huge public funds. but today, to get back on track economically, we need to reach the target of vaccinating 70% of europeans by the end of the summer and get back on track. that is why the work you are doing as commissioner gentiloni to open up a debate on the reform of the stability pact is so important. we have clear ideas, we need to change the rules to encourage investment and extend nextgenerationeu, to rebalance the different capacity of the different countries to borrow and to use state aid. parliament is ready to play its part, together with you, in the future of europe.
madam president, the pandemic has shown us that only a united europe can face the challenges of today and tomorrow. today's crisis has re-established our society on new values, where solidarity has been and must remain a central element. the scientific community's success in finding and using the covid vaccine is certainly a victory, but we still can't say we've won the war. the european union must continue to invest heavily in the health system so that we can achieve a true health union. covid-19 has negatively impacted economic activity and led to job losses, affecting people's well-being. it is time to look to the future, to build a post-pandemic europe. agriculture has been severely disrupted by this health crisis, farmers and agricultural chains are facing major difficulties in accessing markets to sell their products, thus causing them severe financial instability. the beef and wine sectors were the most affected by the horeca closure. small and medium-sized enterprises must be encouraged, through grant funding from the european union, to develop their activities in order to strengthen existing jobs and create new, well-paid jobs. whether we are talking about farmers or smes, the european union must prove, by creating policies based on investment and competitiveness, that it is close to every economic sector and every citizen. this requires coherent strategies to strengthen the economic environment for the coming period.
madam president, the impact of the covid—19 pandemic is of an unprecedented scope, extent and magnitude, affecting the health and the socio—economic situation of millions of european citizens. an unprecedented crisis requires an unprecedented response and a strategy that leaves no one behind, focusing on people, workers and businesses. yes, we need investment, competitiveness and skills, but we also need quality jobs. we need to reduce inequalities and address youth unemployment and the fight against poverty and social exclusion, including child poverty. we need to ensure decent working conditions, long—term security, adequate social protection, affordable gender—based opportunities, and a safe working environment, including for persons with disabilities. we should not limit ourselves to the purely economic dimension of the crisis and instead also tackle its social impact in creating greater prosperity for all. to this end, we need a strong social dimension that boosts sustainable growth, cohesion and upward social convergence and promotes socio—economic governance. the economic and the social are not detached. they are inseparable and have to be addressed together.
in writing. – the covid-19 pandemic has shaken the very foundations of our society. its impacts will be felt for years to come both from a social and economic standpoint. nonetheless, human society has once more demonstrated its ability to survive through adaptation. not only the pandemic proved human resolve, it also enhanced our vision, opening our eyes, pinpointing and highlighting the many problems spanning across the entire socio-economic structure. let us take this pandemic as an opportunity to ‘build back better’. as i have repeated many times, we should start from education. education is the cornerstone of our society. as the world rapidly evolves, it will become ever more difficult to endow new generations with the skills they will need twenty years ahead. we must invest heavily in stem education and upskilling and reskilling programs, to help workers easily adapt to changes and demands of the labour market. we need to adequately address the shortfalls the pandemic brought to our attention. we need to be pragmatic, placing investments where needed. this is how we remain competitive. let’s ensure that the eu recovers sustainably, guaranteeing a healthy future for the generations to come.
the digital green certificate has to move quickly and it has to remove the barriers to privacy and discrimination, but it is fundamental not only for tourism, as it says here, but to restore the schengen area that has been largely affected by the pandemic. as i have said here, the european union's vaccination strategy is good, but the implementation is bad. the problem is not just a failure here or there of the commission, which exists, the problem is also the divisions between the countries, each one for itself, hungary and slovakia with sputnik, denmark and austria going to israel, the german minister for health who says he is able to order sputnik vaccines, the astrazeneca suspension made in dominoes without listening to the european medicines authority. all this creates cacophony, creates disagreement, makes the work of the commission very difficult, which is making a huge effort to ensure that we can get to july with group immunity. what about mr michel's presidency of the council? what is the portuguese presidency doing to ensure that the governments of the member states, instead of each dealing with their own public opinion, are working towards concerted action, joint action, so that the commission can develop its work and the interest of europeans to be vaccinated is first.
madam president, 450 million europeans are demanding that this parliament, which represents them, does everything in its power to speed up the vaccination process and to restore free movement, which is by far the asset they value most. the commission proposes a green health and immunological certificate which will bring about homogeneity and coordination where there is now fragmentation and, therefore, also discrimination. the legal basis is free movement and therefore the committee responsible will be the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which welcomes this instrument. and a majority of committee coordinators suggest that there would be an alternative to the accelerated procedure which would ensure that the result is achieved in june, but the commission proposes a vote on the urgency procedure. and if the urgency procedure is successful, it is important to ensure that a period for amendments and a negotiating mandate are also opened so that the outcome of those negotiations can be voted on in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and then in the plenary in june, but above all to ensure fundamental rights, the temporality of the instrument, the prohibition of discrimination and, of course, the privacy and data protection of europeans and europeans.
madam president, during the first wave of the pandemic, we saw barriers to free movement appearing all over the european union. in my own village close to the dutch-belgian border we saw sea containers, fences and piles of sand blocking the way for those looking to cross the border as they have been crossing borders for many years already, for love, for work, for whatever reason. now the fences have disappeared but restrictions remain in place and of course in a situation as grave as a pandemic it has to be the member states that have the ultimate say as to who enters their country and under what conditions. that is their responsibility and their duty, but it is our duty at european level to make sure that our citizens have a quick and easy way to show that they fulfil those conditions, that their national certificates for their vaccinations, for their negative tests or for their immunity are recognised and accepted in the whole european union. we need to avoid having 27 separate national systems creating one big european chaos. and we need to do this fast. our citizens expect the european union to be part of the solution and not the problem. and i welcome the request by commission president von der leyen to use the urgent procedure that our rules of procedure in this house allow for in extraordinary circumstances, to do this fast. we will show that this parliament can work swiftly and efficiently without compromising on the quality of the work. we need to deliver to make sure that our citizens can exercise their rights to the fullest and without delay.
madam president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the vote. as a pro-vaccination hungarian mep, i am convinced that there is a need to accelerate vaccination, the arrival of vaccines, large-scale testing and the vaccine passport at the same time. 25 million workers in the transport and tourism sector in the european union are waiting for some sort of chance of survival in terms of their existence. meanwhile, students, drivers, and migrant workers are waiting and asking how they will be able to travel. but as a hungarian mep, i have to tell you that we can only make a decision that does not disadvantage hundreds of thousands of hungarian citizens who have been vaccinated with a vaccine that is not yet authorised in the european union. one solution is that all such producers, whether russian or chinese or indian, apply for eu authorisation and start this process. this could be the answer for the future.
madam president, the big tech companies see their profits skyrocket because of the pandemic, and then compare that to the small-business owner who is struggling to survive because of the pandemic. when he or she finds out that the big techs hardly pay any taxes, what do you think the reaction will be? so the council doesn’t just need to discuss how to deal with a pandemic but also how to recover from it. as chair of the subcommittee on tax matters (fisc), i am proud that yesterday the first own-initiative fisc report on digital taxation was adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with an overwhelming majority and with a very clear message to the council. a european digital levy should contribute to the oecd solution, preferably fall on profits and raise substantial revenue – also to pay for the expenditure of the recovery fund. it’s up to the council to let digitalised multinationals pay their fair share and contribute to the recovery after the pandemic, so that not just small-business owners and the other taxpayers will pay the price of the pandemic.
madam president, commissioner hahn, while our fellow citizens are being lost and others are being admitted to intensive care units, while europe's economy is freezing, today, here in the european parliament, with the urgency procedure, we are taking a first step towards having the green digital certificate by the end of may. the green digital certificate we have the honor of having the greek stamp, the greek signature from the proposal of prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis, and it comes to create a fast-track, not only for those who are vaccinated or will be vaccinated but also for those who have a negative test and for those who have antibodies. the obstacles are reduced; the schengen area is returned; we are taking back the freedom of movement of our citizens. it is now our responsibility as the european union to exhaust all means to ensure that the vaccine companies fulfil their commitments and that we achieve immunisation of 70% of the population by the end of the summer. with easter, let us also rekindle hope. with easter, we can bring back our lives, the european way of life, we can revive our economy.
madam president, the borrell report on euro-turkish relations is like an ostrich. while erdogan had already started the persecution for the dissolution of the hdp, you announced an official visit and a few hours later we learn about turkey's withdrawal from the istanbul convention on women's rights. what is the credibility of the union when economic interests are put above the protection of european values and the rule of law? the council's conclusions must explicitly mention not only the incentives but also the sanctions, should turkey continue to violate human rights at home and to provoke provocations in the wider region. the european parliament has also asked you to include sanctions in the arms embargo. it is not possible for the americans to stop selling arms to turkey, and for you to continue to arm the geopolitical agitator. finally, i would like to thank president sassoli for his warm words on the 200th anniversary of the greek revolution and to wish greeks and greeks everywhere a happy birthday.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission tabled this legislative proposal as swiftly as possible after the meeting of the members of the european council. our ambition now is to have the regulation in place by no later than june this year, in order to ensure that the free movement of our citizens can take place under safe health conditions. this is a very important element of a gradual return to normal, which is expected from citizens and businesses alike, with impatience all across the union. it’s therefore important that interinstitutional negotiations can start as soon as possible. work on the details of the technical solution will need to take place in parallel in order to ensure that it can be operational as swiftly as possible after the adoption of the legal framework. we have heard some meps’ concerns on the possible lack of democratic oversight linked to using the urgent procedure. strictly speaking, i understand with this procedure there will not be a formal vote on the committee report. however, the urgent procedure allows for parliament as a whole to fully scrutinise the proposal and to adopt its position within a month of the adoption of the proposal by the commission. parliament, as the voice of european citizens, will therefore have a clear say in the setup of the digital green certificate. these are exceptional times and i hope you will agree with me on the importance of delivering for our citizens. how will we explain to our citizens that we cannot manage to move swiftly on important issues? what would be the message we send? time is of the essence: every day counts. moving forward, the commission stands ready to provide all the support you might need and we will act as honest brokers during interinstitutional negotiations, while continuing to support member states in developing the necessary infrastructure. but let me also answer your question about the doses found in italy today. we have repeatedly stressed the importance of full transparency on the number of doses that are being produced at astrazeneca’s european production sites. we trust that astrazeneca will do its utmost to ensure that all available batches are dispatched as soon as the quality-control process is completed. we don’t want to speculate on whether or not these doses have been designed for the european union. if the company wants to export these doses out of the union, it will have to submit an export authorisation request to the italian authorities. we observe a lack of transparency by astrazeneca on how many doses they have produced, where and for whom. given that they are not meeting their commitments under the european advance-purchase agreements, we consider it of the utmost importance to ensure full transparency. the precise amount of doses needs to be confirmed by the italian authorities.
joint debate closed written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – travel and tourism have long awaited a european solution to restart travel. the industry is in dramatic conditions, having lost usd 2 trillion of gdp worldwide. while the digital green certificates are not the silver bullet to our problems, they surely will assist member states to try and safely reopen for summer 2021. to be clear, the urgency we are facing must never come at the cost of citizens’ civil liberties. we must be vigilant, ensuring that the certificates are truly non-discriminatory and remain valid only until we exit the pandemic. i repeat, this is not the answer to all our problems, but we need to be pragmatic, re-launching a safe summer reopening. today, we must vote in favour of the urgent procedure, the first step of a paramount process to save the summer season. we need, moreover, further coordination measures established unitedly by eu member states to set the foundations of a successful recovery. we must act fast to save the summer season and re-launch travel and tourism.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam commissioner for financial services, we are here today in an important debate, where this parliament is going to hopefully pass two regulatory revisions to allow finance to get, and get in a cheaper way, mainly to small businesses. we often discuss in this house major projects to deepen the capital market union and perhaps we do not realise or appreciate the need for these measures, these policies, perhaps not as grand as global financial market reforms, but reforms that will help, that are aimed at improving the channelling of credit towards 'basically' small businesses, but also families. europe is responding to this crisis in an ambitious and determined way. i believe that this year of the legislative agenda, with the investment programme, the recovery fund, the next generation eu, we are certainly changing the face of the economic structure of the european union; but also with this reform to improve the securitisation market we are taking a step further so that - as i said - small businesses and families have access to cheaper credit. the securitizations haven't had much press. it is true that they were the focus of the financial crisis a decade ago. and they were very likely because those securities were not transparent and because the balance between the return and investment of the securities was skewed. and it was biased because investors didn't know exactly what they were buying when they bought a security and probably those products were either injected or injected assets, loans that certainly didn't have the quality that they needed. but securitisations per se, securitisations with a good structure, securitisations which correctly reflect the relationship between return and risk, are another opportunity, another way of improving financing. and in the last legislature we revised that securitisation framework, creating simple, transparent and standardised securitisations and, on this occasion, we are taking a further step to facilitate the use of these types of instruments and, in addition, to facilitate that those bad loans that may appear in the coming months can also be securitised, moved to the secondary market, and that the banking sector continues to have the capacity to maintain that supply of credit to the private sector. because monetary policy, because the ecb is responding, but we need the intermediaries of that expansionary policy, which are the banking institutions, to maintain and amplify credit, the flow of credit. and this is a good initiative, and i want to congratulate paul tang and othmar karas, who have worked on this review and on the initial proposal of the last legislature, and i am sure that we are taking a step in the right direction to strengthen the economic recovery.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 1929 a regulation has been introduced to ensure that securitisation is no longer the means of drowning the risk of the international financial system at the expense of security. but today, the lobbies of the big market intermediaries, under the pretext of covid, are simply trying to unravel these rules. this will inevitably lead to another and even more serious crisis, due to dramatic indebtedness - both of the public sphere and of private economic agents - and policies that eliminate the primary function of markets: to put a price on risk. if there was one thing to do today, it would be to clean up the markets so that they can once again finance entrepreneurs with plans and a vision for the future and no longer fuel bubbles in which financiers play casino with other people's money, with the people's money.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at this time, all our efforts should be directed towards those most affected by the pandemic. i think of the artists, the coffee growers, the restaurateurs, all the people who have been deprived of income for more than a year. i think of the nurses, the nursing assistants, the social workers, all those people who have been both overexposed to the virus and underpaid for too long. i think of the students, the undocumented, the homeless, all the people who are increasingly isolated and precarious. how can we understand that in the midst of a pandemic and against common sense, a majority of this parliament is preparing to grant new opportunities for profit to the most privileged? covid is increasing inequalities everywhere, and this parliament has no better choice than to support a measure that will only increase them. i can already hear my colleagues - and i can already hear you, commissioner - saying that this is, on the contrary, a measure designed to improve the financing of the real economy. what nonsense ! do you really think that weakening the already too soft rules governing securitization is a step forward for our economies? i would remind you that this technique - i would rather say this artifice, or even this instrument of concealment and discharge - was at the heart of the financial crisis of 2007-2008. the truth is that the financial lobby is taking advantage of every opportunity, including the health crisis, to capture more profit, and that it is finding far too many complacent ears within the european institutions. ladies and gentlemen, i am not too hopeful when i say to you, the conservatives, the liberals and the socialists, that we should return to a little common sense and abandon this additional step of financial deregulation.
the package before us is to be welcomed for two reasons. first, it can be expected that additional significant new appropriations will be added to those funds as a result of the covid-19 crisis. secondly, this package also strengthens our capital markets, which is something we certainly need. but i would still urge caution, again for two reasons. first, the synthetic securitisation facilitated by this package was one of the causes - perhaps the cause - of the 2008 financial system implosion. the second element i would like to warn against is that so-called bad loans will of course also become a problem (or a greater problem) in the near future and that the clean-up of these bad loans must be done in the most market-friendly way possible.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, this evening, parliament will vote on my group’s rejection amendment on these two reports and i urge all meps to back these rejection amendments. we are living through a pandemic, a once-in-a-hundred-year catastrophe beyond human control. hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens have lost their lives, and families and workers are bearing the brunt of the economic fallout. yet, at this point in time, commissioner mcguinness and the eu are asking us meps to loosen the rules on securitisation. the left consider such proposals an affront that would allow vulture funds to swoop and prey. these proposals are detached from our current covid reality and it is actually deeply disturbing that they are before us at this time. securitisation was one of the causes of the last recession. it is a facilitator of tax avoidance and it adds to financial instability. no doubt, the vulture funds and banks pushed hard for these rules, but for my party and my group, that is all the more reason to place them in the bin. has the eu learnt nothing? when they need help the most, are family homes and small businesses to be handed up by the eu? i am not here to protect the banks or assist the vultures. as meps, we’re sent here to stand up for people and that is what you can do by voting down this dismal proposal. support my amendment and say no to the commission’s securitisation agenda.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i am pleased that the house is today dealing with a proposal that has cross-party consensus and is designed to make life easier for european companies, financial institutions and ultimately european citizens. we are renewing the securitization framework, which is absolutely necessary in the current crisis. the main reason for facilitating and speeding up the transformation of loans into marketable securities is to free up bank capital in credit institutions and to allow them to continue lending, which is vital for smes in the current crisis. this technical easing will help us to speed up the financing of economic recovery, which means that the real economy will get a capital injection. i wish we had more opportunities to deal with concrete, practical issues for the citizens and businesses of the union with similar response times instead of the pointless and divisive debates about values and ideology. i ask my fellow mps to vote on this new element of the capital market recovery package, because it helps small businesses and citizens.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, the severe economic shock caused by the coronavirus and the extraordinary measures of containment have naturally had a far-reaching impact on the economy. the commission notes that the bank's lending to the private sector has been decreasing since the beginning of the crisis. the focus of monetary policy in these conditions should be on maintaining favourable financial conditions to preserve jobs and facilitate recovery. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the aid scheme for the production of electricity from renewable sources. the european banking authority published a report in november last year on the use of moratoriums and other support measures in the european union banking sector. the commission notes that the measures were granted in order to mitigate the impact of the sudden closure of economic activities in the context of the coronavirus crisis, to support new borrowing and to facilitate the situation of existing tenants. moratoriums and other support measures cover eur 871 billion in loans, which is about 6% of the total credit portfolio of banks in the european union. of these, 60% of the moratorium was granted to companies while 40% was granted to private individuals. as regards the croatian banks, the report shows that they recorded above average more approved moratoriums for smes, which shows that the moratorium as a measure was primarily aimed at helping the economy. of course, the government of the republic of croatia has also contributed over 10 billion kuna. with this instrument we must guarantee the mechanisms of assistance and the mechanisms of control that have been questioned here i am sure we will continue to have and they will not be lacking.
member of the commission. – mr president, this has been a really important debate, and what i have welcomed particularly is that we have not forgotten the previous financial crisis, nor have we forgotten the lessons we must learn from that crisis. i welcome all of the contributions that have brought us back to the past in order that we don’t return there again. very clearly, i want to make some important messages in relation to the issues we are discussing this evening. we are not loosening the rules; we are maintaining sound prudential rules and investor protection. we are promoting good practices, with the extension of simple, transparent and standardised securitisation rules, and let me stress that this is completely different to the type of securitisations that exacerbated the last financial crisis, which have no place in our financial system. taking no action in the face of rising non-performing loans (npls) risks, as you know, a credit crunch, and that would have serious economic and social consequences for all, including job losses and company failures. the capital markets recovery package in my view, and in the view of this house – we hope – in tomorrow’s vote, will make it easier for capital markets to support european businesses to recover from the crisis. this package will also be a positive signal to financial markets in general and to smes and banks in particular. it shows that the european union can adapt quickly to evolving circumstances to support the real economy. the proposed measures are more important now than ever, and i hope that they will be supported by this house and i thank you for your attention.
the joint debate is closed. the votes on the proposals to reject the commission's proposals will take place today and, if these proposals are not adopted, then the votes on the provisional agreements will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. we need to turn a lot of screws to help citizens and businesses get out of the crisis. the financial market is also part of the solution. we must put it more fully at the service of our common future. we have successfully tightened the first screw in the banking sector at record speed, to mobilise a whopping 450 billion euros in fresh loans. the second screw we have anchored by new financial market rules and the prospect of reconstruction. and we are now turning the third screw by completing the package of measures for the recovery of the capital markets with the new rules for the financial instrument of securitisations. the new securitisation rules strengthen an important building block of the capital markets union. what was once poison is becoming medicine for the economic collapse after corona. in the right dosage, securitization can speed up recovery. they create new investment opportunities and give banks more scope to provide fresh credit to households and smes. i am glad that the european parliament has been able to push through a number of improvements to the regulatory framework. we have imposed more risk-sensitive capital requirements for distressed and sts on balance sheet securitisations. we've increased transparency. we have laid the foundation for a sustainable securitization label in response to the climate challenge. and we've improved the handling of potential tax avoidance in tax havens.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2022 budget, section iii - commission [2020/2265(bui) ] - committee on budgets. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. as usual, i would like to remind members that there will be no 'catch the eye' procedures or 'blue card' questions in these debates. as in the voting periods of previous sessions, distance speeches are provided from our liaison offices in the european parliament.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would really like to thank karlo ressler for these draft guidelines for the 2022 budget. the 2022 budget will be the second one of the new multiannual financial framework (mff) adopted just a few months ago. like the 2021 budget, the 2022 budget will be reflecting the impact of the crisis under which it is forged. by then, hopefully the health crisis will be mostly resolved, so the economic and social recovery will be the main priority for next year’s budget. i’m happy that we share this priority with parliament and i am confident that we can build on this common ground. delivering the green and digital transitions will also remain key priorities. if anything, the crisis has shown that we have no time to lose. it gives us the opportunity to make the economy and social recovery greener and smarter. above all, the 2022 budget will be based on the recent mff agreement. the new programmes will finally enter into force in the coming months and, under next year’s budget, can be implemented fully. the commission’s proposal for the 2022 budget will be based on the mff agreement as presented in detail in the technical update of the financial programming in early february, with possible deviations in case of updated or new legislative proposals. i’m confident that we will receive from every institution reasonable and timely contributions that will guarantee proper preparation of the draft. delayed mff agreement has a knock-on effect on the implementation of the new programmes. it is, therefore, of utmost importance that we adopt this budget in due time to allow for stability and certainty for the implementation. we need financial stability in order to ensure the swift implementation of the programmes. the 2022 budget will also need to ensure sufficient payments for the budget in general and more, in particular, for the continuing high execution of the structural funds. as usual, we will inform the budgetary authority during the year on the implementation during the interinstitutional meetings on payments. finally, let me assure you that the commission will fully respect the commitments it has undertaken to inform the two arms of the budgetary authority on relevant developments, including the implementation of the next generation eu contribution to programmes and to the recovery and resilience facility.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, 2022 will undoubtedly be characterised by an economic and labour-market crisis with high unemployment and also consistent labour shortages related to covid-19, resulting in more inequalities, more poverty and more social exclusion. that is why in the coming years the union budget should have a strong social dimension, boosting sustainable growth, cohesion and upward social convergence and promoting economic and social governance. in the empl committee’s view, the budget will need to – and should – also safeguard existing jobs and working conditions, and also create new, high-quality jobs while effectively and also inclusively combating poverty, including child poverty, social exclusion and also inequalities. the eu budget must contribute to a well-functioning and inclusive labour market and guarantee sufficient investments in the s&d flagship initiatives, such as the child and youth guarantee and the active implementation of the european pillar of social rights. the budget needs to improve the life prospects of our citizens and our workers, and it needs to address the social and employment-related challenges resulting from the covid-19 pandemic, as well as supporting our workers, businesses and the move towards a more solidarity-based digital, greener and climate-neutral economy.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, a european strategy for data is not only absolutely necessary but also urgent. while we are talking about first steps, it is important to include dimensions that are often not considered. from this point of view, we have fought to include three recommendations, welcoming their inclusion. first, the rights of the worker. we need to ensure that employees have the right to know where their data is, how it's used, how it's shared. guidance should also be provided to reduce surveillance in the workplace and to ensure privacy. second, the health data. it is important to provide that insurance companies or any other service provider that has access to information stored in health applications cannot use that data for discriminatory purposes, including pricing. thirdly, and last but not least, it is important to ensure the environmental impacts of information and communication technologies and their ecological footprint. we are pleased that you have been included. we want to see consequences now for the future.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. for let there be no misunderstanding about that: privacy is not just an individual right, it's also a societal value. it is absolutely crucial that our personal data is properly protected by law. it is also good that we are doing this in europe. it is so much better and clearer to have one set of rules that apply throughout the eu, rather than 27 national laws, with all the transnational implications and difficulties that go with it. so we need to have good and clear rules that protect our privacy, but at the same time we need to make sure that there is room to take measures for our safety and for our health. we have received many hundreds, if not thousands, of signals from society over the past two years about the ambiguities and imperfections in the current legislation: from small and medium-sized enterprises, from associations, from schools, from youth and health care, from start-ups and technologies of the future. we have a choice now. we can ignore those signals. we can say from this room here that we all know better and that we hold to our own absolute right. or we can take those signals seriously. we can pick them up and we can do something about it. we can look together at how and where we can make the current rules better, clearer and more future-proof in a targeted way. i am very clear about the second option and i accept that challenge. i hope very much that many colleagues will follow me in this.
madam president, i should like to thank all colleagues who have been working on this important file. the european data strategy paves the way to an effective and inclusive digital transition. data is a key to the success of our societies. i stress its potential in improving health services and research on chronic and rare diseases that, unfortunately, affect many european citizens. an effective and inclusive data strategy is necessary to enhance the competitiveness of small and medium enterprises. way too often smes lag behind large firms, lacking the means and skills necessary to take advantage of their own data and get their knowledge through analytics. nowhere is this truer than in transport and tourism. it will be paramount to ensure trust by all and data-sharing that is rooted in legal clarity. i conclude by noting that the european parliament is putting forward a noble cause when speaking about data for a public good. citizens must always come first.
mr president, europe has a responsibility for daphne caruana galizia. it is our responsibility to ensure justice for daphne, because daphne fought for our common european values, for the rule of law, for democracy and for tax justice. when daphne was murdered the extensive problems around corruption and money laundering that she investigated for so many years did not disappear. on the contrary, these problems are still structural problems in malta. so as europeans we must continue daphne’s fight. the continuation of her cause means at least two things. first, we must urge the maltese institutions to hold every single person accountable that was involved in the murder of daphne. the same applies to the cases of high-level corruption daphne reported on. and let me be clear on this, the role of joseph muscat must be fully investigated. justice for daphne: that means that every person must be held accountable, no matter how powerful he is. and second, we have to address the structural problems of corruption and money laundering in malta. also on this point i want to be clear. the system in malta is still rotten. some improvements have been made, but the big tidying-up still needs to happen. also, the recommendations of the venice commission have not been implemented yet, as the council of europe rapporteur pieter omtzigt demonstrated recently in a follow-up report. a culture of impunity for financial crime persists. parliamentary reform and the effective protection of journalism against lawsuits is equally outstanding. as the european parliament, we cannot accept this, and therefore i call on the european commission to hold malta accountable when it comes to infringements of eu law. the passport issue is not enough. it’s also about public procurement, financial supervision, environmental law. so what europe can and should do for daphne today is to make sure that her work was not in vain. europe must do everything it can to continue her fight, for daphne, for the people in malta and for the rule of law in our common european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, three parliamentary resolutions on daphne caruana galizia and the rule of law in malta, four parliamentary missions which have yielded a great deal of data, all of them in malta, two plenary debates where we discussed the issues relating to malta, the rule of law and the murder of daphne caruana galizia. and we continue exactly as we started or very close to where we started. what legitimacy do we have when every month we bring to the house, in the debate on urgent matters, cases of violation of the rule of law, of the murder of journalists in other parts of the world, we advocate the application of sanctions to these countries, but we let everything continue to happen in malta. corruption in malta is not new and the management of corruption by political power is not new either: cases of corruption and money laundering that are not investigated, in relation to which no progress is seen, or delays in cases where there is progress, as happened recently, well, but very, very slowly. the criminals responsible for the murder have either been pardoned by the president or are awaiting a decision. there will be no justice for daphne caruana galizia until those responsible for her murder are convicted and there will be no ability to look in the mirror until we realize that the fight against corruption and freedom of the press are indeed to be taken seriously.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the murder of maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia has been under investigation for years. it's clear from this that the political assassination leads to the highest levels of the left-wing maltese government. in comparison, the european left factions have been in the dark on this issue for years. and remember, there have been many attempts to prevent us from even bringing this matter to the agenda here at the ep. this political and moral cynicism is scandalous in itself. but it goes beyond that, the same left-wing mps who would have been silent in the murder case involving the socialist government in malta are continually attacking right-wing christian democratic governments in poland, hungary, more recently slovenia and now even bulgaria with fabricated cases and lies. i call on commissioner jourová to start a rule of law procedure against malta if democracy is really that important to her. it seems there is a reason not to continue the ideological warfare against millions of central european voters who elected right-wing governments in free and democratic elections!
mr president, our message today is clear: we need those responsible for the assassination of daphne caruana galizia, those who let it happen and those who tried to cover it up to face justice. we need an end to impunity and justice for the stories that she was killed for exposing and we must prevent this from happening ever again. that means strengthening our systems and giving europol more authority on sharing evidence and investigations. it means having an anti-strategic lawsuit against public participation (anti-slapp) directive to not let them dismiss this as partisan bickering. it is far more important. and do not judge my country by the actions of criminals posing as politicians. malta is not them. malta is better than them. we may be an island of 25 by 15 kilometres, but we do not see ourselves as small. we built back better after becoming the most bombed place on earth. we pushed for democracy and joined the eu as equals. we are the country that put climate change on the world agenda. we are the island of daphne caruana galizia’s courage, oliver friggieri’s pen, joseph calleja’s voice, edward de bono’s thinking. when you look at malta, understand that the criminals do not represent the true face of our country. look at the thousands of businesses who work hard, create jobs and thrive while playing by the rules. look at those who stand up as they face down an organised machine of abuse and intimidation. look at the families who look to europe to protect the values that our generation was promised. this house should not give the criminals the comfort of silence or patronage. and let us do our best to ensure that this never happens again anywhere.
mr president, this is not a matter of partisan politics. everyone in malta wants justice for the atrocious murder of daphne caruana galizia; everyone in malta wants the whole truth to come out and everyone in malta wants everyone involved in this case to be given the punishment they deserve: they are who they are. however, colleagues, the truth is coming out because in malta today we have institutions that are working. institutions that we have clearly seen are not looking at faces. yes, today we have a better malta. unfortunately, to get here, however, we had to endure decades of abuse and unfortunately even murder. but this debate worries me; not because i'm tired of talking about countries. we do this in the committee on justice, on which i am the labour mep, where we update you on our shortcomings and the progress made by the maltese government led by robert abela over the past year. advances that since i was a child, i had heard that had to be made, but that no one had ever had the will to make. i am concerned that, as the convention on human rights clearly states in article 6, such political and media discussions about what is being said by witnesses during the course of the case, can prejudice the judicial process and help the accused more than it does to achieve justice. let there be truth and justice, stop politicizing the judicial process! mr weber left the room, but i am sorry to hear him say that the labour party had prior knowledge of daphne's murder. we are the labour party: genuine people who believe in justice and who believe in progress. it is with great urgency that we are discussing today what is still in evidence, one of the witnesses in this case. fernoise not because they want to get the truth out, but fernoise because they want to win electoral points before a general election. mr. president, the country has been harmed by all those who have abused the institutions over the decades. this practice has been changed by the progressive government in the last year. strengthen the rule of law, strengthen democracy, follow the recommendations of the venice commission. . of . of . of (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, what a beautiful language maltese is! especially when you're not used to lying. the case of malta is one of those we are seeing in europe where the free press is being neglected and even attacked by political parties and governments who are not interested in the truth, but in power with ever fewer limits. in maltese, english or spanish. and truthful facts are the only vaccine against this, and the fight against corruption. daphne caruana galizia was murdered to silence her. so that he wouldn't look for facts about corruption and bigotry. keith schembri, the former chief of staff to the prime minister, has been charged with corruption, money laundering, fraud and forgery based on an investigation published by daphne in 2016. before she was killed, she was dehumanized, bullied, humiliated. so far there has been no decency in maltese or english, no acceptance of responsibility despite the three hit men aiming straight at their targets. three years. if we are to be true to the word we gave in the tributes, we must first be effective in respecting freedom of information and its protection. and second, in a state of shock we passed measures in the commission against corruption. let's apply them.
mr president, my dear fellow european citizens of malta, we are always very proud of your country, also because you are the fatherland and the motherland of such a european hero and the freedom champion like daphne caruana galizia. but we have to condemn, and also to be ashamed of the former and of the present maltese government that are undoubtedly associated to this repugnant and repellent crime. let me be very loud and very clear: when impunity, corruption, destruction of evidence, concealment, obstruction of justice, flourishes and endures; when the perpetrators of this crime and other crimes dare to ask for pardon and official clemency; when the connections and links with members of government and of the labour party are widely proved, we are not in the presence of a crime, we are not before a single case of impunity, no, we are in the presence of a systematic violation and a massive breach of the rule of law. and that is why i urge the s&d group to acknowledge this breach. and i appeal to all the members of the meeting of today’s european council to address the persistent breach of all values of the european union by the maltese government. please be courageous and honour the memory of daphne, honour the pride and honour of all maltese citizens.
daphne caruana galizia, thank you very much. thank you for your courage and determination in the face of threats. thank you for giving everything, including your life, so that malta would no longer be run by criminals, and on behalf of this european parliament, yes, i say again: thank you daphne. and now, you who have conspired to destroy it, you who have paid money to destroy it, be afraid! shoot him! because you have to! because you will pay for your actions. because that family you broke and froze, you still have to look her in the eye before you go to jail. these are the people who run our country: one with crime. an ugly reality that is confirmed with each passing day. every day new news. every day a new scandal. malta needs protection from its own government. killers and rapists will find someone else to defend them, but not me. but not to roberta. i close with a message to you, the maltese and gozitan. do not give up. we're not going to stop here. we will continue to insist that justice be done. there are brave and courageous people who are not afraid: people in the police, courts, journalists and civil society. and last but not least, in this parliament. the european parliament is the shield of the maltese and gozitan people, as i am. thank you daphne, and daphne, we will never forget you!
mr president, yes the institutions in malta are working; they are working without looking at anyone! because yes, for us the highest priority is to bring justice after the murder of daphne caruana galizia; justice is now being served in our courts where seven people are charged with this murder. therefore, i cannot understand. i cannot understand how the european parliament is trying to pass its political judgment on a process which is still before our courts. let us let our institutions work freely and not continue to make this process a comedy of partisan politics. justice, for example, which we can certainly never find if we take the advice of the maltese leader of the opposition that he wants to pardon all those accused of this crime without consulting the institutions. i am proud, proud of the maltese government. proud of the government that has never been superficial during these last months and has continued to implement one recommendation after another, of the venice commission, the greco and the council of europe. recommendations that have been on the shelf for many years. we have strengthened the rule of law. we have strengthened the fight against money laundering by strengthening legislation and providing more resources to our police. we have continued to invest in our courts by increasing the number of magistrates, by increasing the number of judges, as the prime minister no longer has the power to appoint the judiciary himself. we appointed a commissioner for the first time by a public call, with a transparent process. we are not perfect and we are still making reforms, but we are not false either. foloz, like many of those who spoke today who point their fingers at corruption and have big problems at home, started with weber that his party is even a little bit of a.... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, where are the leaders of the left? missing in action. there are secondary figures here today speaking about bulgaria, hungary and the respect that they have for malta and the maltese people. is this the respect they have? the highest ranks of the maltese labour party are involved in the highest form of corruption and criminal offences. for how long is the european socialist party going to maintain them in their ranks? the former chief of staff of the prime minister is charged with corruption and money laundering. five of seven people charged with the murder of daphne caruana have requested presidential pardons in exchange for providing information against politicians in government. just try to imagine if this was a right or centre-right government. let me be clear, this is not a critique of malta but of their government. the maltese people rightly demand justice and political accountability. we have to be bold and clear and call things for what they are. the socialist government in malta has allowed, in the heart of europe, a journalist to be murdered for her work, and her killers and the enablers remain free. daphne exemplified this need to shine a light on corruption and demand justice. she paid for it with her life. her life and work should be a lesson and an example for all of us.
mr president, i am a maltese and i want justice. but justice must be allowed to run its course if it is to be truly effective and serene in its work. we have before us today a debate which is out of date and insensitive to the current reality. this debate and the resolution requested at the moment, can do little good, and may lead to further divisions; and this in a society that is currently seeking to strengthen its sense of unity and reconciliation. what sense does it make, when a member state in countries is making all its genuine efforts to ensure improvements in the areas of governance and the rule of law, to initiate such a process? what sense does it make that while malta is always having judicial proceedings in our courts, hearing crucial testimony, conducting various inquiries with a firm consensus that solve major cases, holding debates here that will stir up the situation rather than respect the very work of justice? today's action is indeed insensitive to the realities of malta at the moment, and will therefore be neither conciliatory nor helpful in its outcome. a little over a year ago, another debate and resolution had already been held on malta. since then, political responsibility has been assumed, a prime minister has resigned, etc. we have made every effort to pursue where necessary and to increase the rigour in all the processes of governance of the country. if this debate is not timely, i hope that this process will at least lead to recognition and confidence in the efforts that are actually being made. let's let the institutions work. let's leave it. ... of the ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. this week we come to the end of a long legislative process. we will adopt new instruments that will enable the scientific research and innovation community to launch the projects that will drive our growth, ensure our competitiveness and make a decisive contribution to the health and quality of life of all of us. horizon europe is the world's largest programme for scientific research, innovation and technological development. its predecessor, horizon 2020, has already been a crucial instrument for europe's growth and well-being. it was through this, it should be recalled, that the research project that would lead to one of the vaccines against covid-19 was co-funded. and that's just one example, one of the latest examples of the transformative role that this program has had. the new framework programme will in turn contribute to europe's economic recovery, job creation and the crucial digital and green transitions. it will be essential to make our economies more resilient and to advance science, including in the fields of health, environment and climate change. thanks to the long and hard battle waged by the european parliament, it will have the largest budget ever: €95.5 billion. the european institute of innovation and technology, with a budget of almost €3 billion, is a very important part of horizon europe. it is the only instrument in the european budget that covers the entire knowledge triangle: education, scientific research and innovation. in fact, it now has another dimension: culture. i was very proud to be the rapporteur for the strategic agenda of this institute. after more than 16 months of collective work, we can say that we have contributed to raising the quality of research and innovation in europe. the eit, the european institute of innovation and technology, will be more transparent, dynamic, simplified and open. we have proposed a comprehensive package of measures that gives you the flexibility and agility to better deal with crises like the current one, both from an economic and a health point of view. we have introduced a regional innovation scheme which obliges the eit to invest a significant percentage of its budget in activities aimed at regional development. we have created the conditions, particularly budgetary ones, to ensure a better geographical balance of activities throughout europe. similarly, measures have been taken to promote synergies with regional funds and a recovery and resilience mechanism, as well as other funds and instruments, such as the european investment bank. we are convinced that these changes will make the eit a driver of growth and job creation, and also of the growth of enterprises, especially smes. in addition to the eight existing communities at the institute, in the coming years the eit will launch a new community on cultural and creative sectors and industries, and another on water, marine and maritime ecosystems. these two new communities, which we call the kics, were one of the european parliament's great victories in the negotiating process. culture is an extremely important part of the european entity. it contributes greatly to its economy and to employment, and this sector has been one of the hardest hit by the current pandemic. water, on the other hand, is one of the biggest challenges of our near future. from water availability to water quality, to the blue economy, to the whole ocean-related problem, from rivers to oceans, this will be the focus of the new community, the new cci, that we've been able to negotiate for the eit. we should be satisfied with the success of our work. horizon europe and the eit will be decisive and our efforts have helped to recover and re-launch our economies in the aftermath of the current crisis. thank you to all who have contributed to this objective, from parliament's secretariat staff to assistants to policy makers. i would like to say a very special word to mrs marisa matias, rapporteur for the regulation, to my fellow shadow rapporteurs who have been brilliant team mates, to our commissioner mariya gabriel for her always constructive and cooperative spirit, and to the german and portuguese presidencies for guiding the council to the compromise text we are going to vote on tomorrow.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is a real honour and pleasure to be with you today for this exchange which precedes the formal adoption of the political agreement on the horizon europe programme and on the european institute of innovation and technology and its strategic innovation agenda. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, christian ehler and dan nica, the rapporteurs, maria da graça carvalho and marisa matias, the non-attached rapporteurs and all the members of the itre committee for their hard work. thank you, thank you for not being short of ambition from the start. and let me also assure you that we will not lose that ambition. and now, where are we? we are at a point where we say to ourselves that the negotiations have improved and enriched the legislative proposals, and so it is with satisfaction and confidence that i stand before you today, without complacency for the efforts that will be required of us in the future. the starting point, and also the end point of our negotiations, is that we have a budget of €95.5 billion, which is a 30% increase on horizon 2020 and makes it the most ambitious transnational research and innovation programme in the world. today, horizon europe as we envisage it is structured around three pillars, and we need each of them. the first provides very strong support for basic research. we need our european research council, which in a few years has become a world reference; we need to support our researchers with marie skłodowska-curie programmes, not only in their mobility, but also to make the careers of researchers more attractive. we have a second pillar which encompasses partnerships and a big new thing, missions. the third pillar is entirely dedicated to innovation with the european institute of innovation and technology and the european innovation council. so what is extremely strong as a signal here is that the very structure of the horizon europe programme sends a message: yes, we need innovation in europe. the first is that horizon europe is innovative in its instruments, which offer both new approaches that we can now deploy through missions, through partnerships or with the european innovation council. of course, there's a fourth component that's just as important. it will propose a wide range of measures to promote european cohesion in research and innovation. a word about partnerships and missions. the missions represent a new way of approaching research and innovation with ambitious and measurable objectives; missions aim to create genuine project portfolios so that the final impact is greater than the sum of individual projects. partnerships will also benefit from a renewed approach, following feedback from parliament and the member states. with fewer partnerships, we are taking a more strategic approach that encourages greater participation from the public and private sectors to address targeted technological challenges in areas that are essential for all of us: energy, health, biodiversity, food. one of the lessons of the current crisis is that the european union really needs to invest in its innovation capacity in order to face the challenges ahead with confidence. and that is why we now have the european innovation council. it will support our start-ups, our small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of our economy. but this time we will also have the possibility of using mixed financing combining subsidies and equity investments. we have the ambition to make the european innovation council the european unicorn factory. one of the union's tools to overcome these challenges and accelerate our transition to a green and digital economy is our beloved european institute of innovation and technology. in order to better fulfil its ambitious role within horizon europe, it needed a suitable regulation with a coherent mission and objectives, coupled with an ambitious strategic innovation agenda. so now the eit, working through its knowledge and innovation communities, aims to strengthen precisely this innovation capacity of the union by integrating the knowledge triangle: research, innovation and education. we rely on the eit to strengthen our innovation ecosystems. of course, we have some very relevant information. the new regional innovation programme will specifically aim to increase the eit's engagement with the countries and regions that most need to increase their innovation capacity and, coupled with the new eit-specific national contact points, the regional innovation programme will ensure increased participation from these countries and greater impact. i also personally wanted the european innovation council and the european institute of innovation and technology to be more complementary in horizon europe. they must create as much synergy as possible so that our european innovators, our talents, can benefit from european competitiveness. after only a few months of fruitful discussions, a memorandum of understanding was signed on 8 january. the cie and the eit can now work together to identify and provide the appropriate support to businesses to achieve the expected results. we also pay attention to education. the new eit legal basis contains a pilot initiative to increase the entrepreneurial and innovation capacity of higher education institutions, precisely to integrate them more effectively into local value chains and innovation ecosystems. finally, yes, the eit will launch new kics, first in the creative culture sector. we will have to work in synergy with the new cluster in the field of culture in the framework of the horizon europe programme. in 2026, another kic will be established in the field of aquatic, marine and maritime ecosystems. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by reiterating that horizon europe is also an open programme, whether it is the dimension of synergies with other programmes, in particular with the cohesion funds - but these are not the only ones and we will be working on them - or the international dimension with exploratory discussions already under way with possible new partners. as regards its practical implementation, the work programme of the european research council and the european innovation council has already been adopted and calls for proposals launched. in addition, the main work programme is being finalised and should be published in the coming weeks. thank you very much for your attention. i look forward to your comments.
on behalf of the s&d group. i am pleased that today parliament is giving research and innovation policy the importance it truly deserves. we welcome the important role that horizon europe will play in shaping the future of the european union, including as regards the crucial contribution to its competitiveness, modernisation and sustainability. the challenges we are experiencing to make our healthcare sector more responsive, our smes more resilient and our society more inclusive require strategic vision, strong funding and swift implementation. i hope that over the next seven years, this new programme will help the smaller member states to reach their full innovation potential. the word 'horizon' reminds us of a broad and long-term perspective - this is the approach we should aim to follow if we want european research to benefit our citizens, our economy and, ultimately, the common good.
mr president, by voting for the trade and cooperation agreement, we can finally put brexit to rest and start a new phase in eu—uk relations. this agreement, together with the withdrawal agreement, will help us structure our cooperation going forward, and i hope it will be a close partnership. the eu and uk need each other and we have a lot to gain from cooperation in multiple fields, including fighting climate change and pursuing value—based foreign policy. the agreement will also help us to deal with mutual grievances. we will need to continue to defend the integrity of the internal market and the customs union, and the uk will need to accept what it has signed up to, including the northern ireland protocol, to save peace in the region. if we must, we can trigger the tca arbitration procedure and, where relevant, the rebalancing mechanism that allows either side to impose remedial measures. but i strongly hope our relations will not be defended by grievances. instead, we should strengthen political dialogue with the uk to avoid the build-up of grievances and strengthen our mutual political will to act together in europe and on the world stage. as the european parliament, we should seek a close working relationship with the uk houses of parliament to complement the executive level partnership council. implementing brexit is sad but building a new partnership is full of opportunities.
mr president, just 5% of people polled in northern ireland last month trust the british government to safeguard their interests in the discussions around the protocol. no event in the history of northern ireland has united the people of northern ireland more completely than the incompetence of this british government and now four former secretaries of state have written to boris johnson tacitly accusing him of dishonesty and neglect in his northern ireland policy. by contrast, john hume, former mep, attempted to internationalise the northern ireland situation and especially emphasising the role of the eu, and this is more true now than ever, because the eu stands as co—guarantor of the good friday agreement, northern ireland is in our single market and will be impacted by the laws that we make in this parliament. so i’m delighted that the resolution makes specific reference to enhance dialogue between the northern ireland assembly and the european parliament, between belfast and brussels, because it is only through structured and continuous dialogue that we will make sure the northern ireland voice is heard in this chamber and the northern ireland protocol serves all communities in northern ireland.
mr president, fortunately we have an agreement to approve with the united kingdom, a trade and cooperation agreement. if that were not the case, the consequences of brexit would have been much worse, given the very close economic and trade links between the member states of the union and that country. we would all have been very much hurt and our economies, already affected by covid-19, would have suffered even more. the agreement avoids the worst consequences of a wrong decision. i am certainly sorry that the agreement does not include a specific chapter on foreign and defence policy. i do not understand why london has not wanted to have institutional mechanisms to facilitate consultation and coordination in international matters, given our interests and values are so close. in a multipolar world, with the emergence of major non-european actors, coordination with us would also be very useful for the uk. finally, i would like to refer once again to fisheries, a fundamental sector which, as we all know, has been one of the most difficult points of the negotiations. i very much regret the 25% cut in european catches in uk waters, but what is important now is to ensure that the agreement finally works properly in fisheries and to overcome the current difficulties in setting tacs and quotas. the institutional mechanisms must also be put in place without further delay, in particular the specialised committee on fisheries. i also hope that when the so-called five-year adjustment period is over, the fisheries sector will have a horizon of stability and certainty ahead of it, maintaining cooperation and mutual benefit, without further cuts. if this were not the case, fisheries would be a major source of discord which would affect the rest of the agreement. first, to trade. let no one be deceived: fishing must not be a bargaining chip in our relations with the united kingdom. and i conclude by saying that this parliament will be very vigilant about the future agreement with the united kingdom regarding the colony of gibraltar.
mr president, the trade and cooperation agreement with the united kingdom is the result of intensive negotiations which have been going on for years now. it is clear that a free trade agreement will never amount to full partnership and can never lead to the same equal economic arrangements for the european internal market. however the united kingdom has chosen to end its relationship with the european union and maintain a more distant relationship. that is why we now need to see how these rules will work in practice with the least possible problems, the least possible obstacles. however, we are sure to experience difficulties that will become increasingly evident over the coming months and years. that is why the european union must act decisively and swiftly, to ensure that our member states, workers, consumers, citizens, the environment, industries are not negatively impacted. and if these difficulties materialise, the commission should react immediately to remedy these situations. and so i would like to ask the commission; how do you think you will address the continuity in supply and the shortage of medicines in those particular member states, like my member state malta, that have been affected by brexit. immediate actions and long-term solutions will be implemented to address these problems which are creating challenges not only to the effectiveness of our member states' health systems, but major problems in the immediate future as we are currently in the midst of a pandemic.
madam president, the response to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic in the european union is being profoundly asymmetrical. the disparity in national responses is clear. the recovery and resilience mechanism and the multiannual financial framework, which are insufficient to meet needs, do not change this reality. but the impact of the pandemic itself on economic activity is also uneven, as evidenced by the impact on the tourism sector that particularly affects the countries on the periphery of the euro area, the most affected by monetary integration. in view of this, a genuinely solidarity-based response would require much more from the european union, in particular increased specific support for the tourism sectors, including the catering, hotel and cultural sectors, and the thousands of workers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises working in them. it would also be important if vaccination were to move forward more rapidly than it has been. but unfortunately the european commission insists on putting the interests of multinational pharmaceutical consortia ahead of the interests of the people and the state. how long will it take, commissioner?
madam president, madam zacarias, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tourism is one of the basic pillars of the european economy and is key to the single market. we are talking about two million businesses, 12 million jobs and 10.3% of the union's gdp. the most affected, as always, are citizens, smes and the selfemployed, as well as island and peripheral regions. in spain alone, in 2020 we lost 64 million tourists and more than 100 billion euros in turnover. today we are still in time to save the summer of 2021. in the european parliament and the european commission we have proposed measures to speed up mobility and thus to revive tourism. now that we have the vaccine, the member states have to agree. they can start by, for example, taking measures coordinated with the digital green certificate. we're here to provide solutions. we must overcome the false debate that faces economics and health; they are not incompatible. i'll give you an example: in madrid, we've kept the economy afloat with hotels, shops, theatres and museums open, and incidence figures much lower than in other european capitals, where everything has been closed since october. in order to minimise the impact of 2021, member states need to coordinate and take joint action. i would like to announce that the spanish delegation of the group of the european people's party is going to put a series of questions to the council, demanding coordinated and effective measures. we take health very seriously, but also the economy, tourism and fundamental rights. the member states must react urgently. we don't have time to waste. the european union needs to save the 2021 summer campaign.
after more than a year of restrictions, even periods of total closure, the hospitality sector now faces the risk of losing another summer season if we do not act effectively. the sector is essential for europe with many smes and local businesses, run by families with a common history in their region. this, together with a strong sense of hospitality, makes tourism in europe unique. i cannot stress enough the gravity of a future without these businesses, a void that can never be filled by large international companies. we need to ensure that europe remains the world's leading destination, and to do this, there is an urgent need for clear agendas coupled with recovery, adequate economic and social support. the commission sent the wrong message by ignoring the call of the tourism task force and not allocating sector-specific funds under the next generation eu. now while vaccination and certificates will help, we need to strengthen coordination in the field of travel. we must also not forget the safety concerns of travellers when it comes to public health. we need to act in time so that the hospitality sector has the necessary visibility to plan ahead. we also need to see that there are adequate support mechanisms in place until this sector really gets on its feet. this is because we cannot jeopardise the jobs of so many people and the economies of so many regions and islands that are dependent on this sector such as malta and gozo. as the heart and soul of europe, tourism must be given a chance. . of . of (the president withdrew the floor to speakers)
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking massimiliano salini for the great job he has done. it is a long-term job, but it has produced excellent results, like few of those you have seen here. the union's space programme will enable us to continue such important actions as copernicus or the galileo geolocation programme. with a budget of €14.6 billion, focused on smes, start-ups and innovative companies, it will provide very significant support to one of europe's most globally competitive industries, the aerospace industry. as a result, european autonomy will be strengthened in an area which is a real asset of the european union. in short, it is an added value, more important than ever, to what the european union means.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for this exchange which confirms our collective ambition for space. yes, space is at the heart of the triple transition. the digital transition, of course, with real applications related to data, for example, but also to connectivity. ecology, of course, as many of you have mentioned, including copernicus, which can allow us to have a complete state of the planet in real time, including co2 related aspects. and resilience, with key technologies like quantum encryption and, more broadly, access to space. the european union is focusing on the economic and strategic applications of space, but europe is far behind on issues of exploration and scientific research. we have a world-class space agency whose expertise and mission portfolio of exploratory probes are recognized worldwide. however, as europeans, we must also position ourselves in a global context and maintain our position as the world's second space power. the crisis has exposed our dependence on the global commodity value chain and foreign suppliers in all sectors, including space. we must also ask ourselves whether we have the right approaches to all the segments which underpin our space strategy, especially at a time when there is a great deal of disagreement between our member states on certain strategic issues such as launchers. so i say again, i have a real ambition for our space start-ups through a new approach linked to a new space in the european way. i also agree that we must work on the spatial dimension of our defence strategy, as some of you have rightly pointed out. we are, of course, working within the framework of the european defence fund. i also support all those who have said that what we are doing is putting europe on the global stage. my connectivity initiative is obviously a clear example of this and i will need parliament's support on this. connectivity for all, resilience of infrastructure, quantum technology, partnership with africa, space traffic management, which will also be a crucial element of our economy, this has been mentioned by many of you, and of course our space autonomy, the launchers alliance, which will also be very important in defining our long-term strategy: the coming months will be very important, decisive, even, in defining a political and ambitious roadmap for our space strategy, which i carry, of course, and which we are carrying a lot together here. so i am counting on you for that and i know the absolutely crucial role you have played in getting an agreement. i would like to say again, ladies and gentlemen, that you can rely on me.
the debate is closed. i can inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendments have been tabled under rules 67 and 68. the council's position is therefore approved and the proposed legislative act is therefore deemed to be adopted. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i am particularly proud that after many years of patient work, the prague galileo space agency (gsa) has been transformed into the euspa agency covering all eu space projects, and that it has been given new tasks, as well as the money and staff to carry them out. the czech republic will of course also benefit from the increased prestige of the agency, for example, other opportunities are opening up for czech companies, especially in innovative and high-tech fields.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the recommendation for the second reading on the position to be adopted, at first reading, by the council, on the position to be adopted, at first reading, by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for the internal market, the competitiveness of enterprises, including small and medium-sized enterprises, the crop, livestock, food and feed sector and european statistics (internal market programme) and repealing regulations (eu) no 99/2013, (eu) no 1287/2013, (eu) no 254/2014 and (eu) no 652/2014 (14281/1/2020 c9-0133/2021 2018/0231cod)) (rapporteur: beni brandochter) (a90142/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very proud to be here today to present to parliament and to our citizens the results of the negotiations on the internal market programme. a programme of more than 4 billion euros, which will finance the key areas of what is commonly considered one of the greatest achievements of our union and which is a fundamental part of that deep integration between countries, between our economies, between our citizens, one of those concrete achievements with which de facto solidarity is built, to quote schuman, a de facto solidarity which is born precisely from these connections, from these exchanges that take place in the common market. the world as we know it has changed completely since the start of the negotiations in 2019. the covid crisis has highlighted more than ever the importance of a well-integrated, more resilient, functioning internal market in all its aspects. all the areas financed by the programme were, in fact, at the forefront during the crisis and will be even more so during the recovery of our economies. we recall, for example, the blockades of goods and medicines during the first months of the pandemic and how difficult this caused the supply of products. let's move on to the market surveillance issue: we have seen numerous interventions by our authorities to recall counterfeit or unsafe goods, perhaps purchased online. let's think about the mask thing. then there is consumer protection: how many vulnerable consumers are caught up in these sales of unauthorised products and would need more support and information about their rights and protection? and then, as far as the production of statistics at european level is concerned, let's think about how important the exchange and coordination of information on infections and hospitalizations, but also economic data, has been in recent months. and then there is the safety of the food chain through the prevention and treatment of animal and plant diseases. covid-19 itself is a so-called zoonosis, and it has made it clearer to all of us how critical this is to the safety of our citizens. last but not least, the small and medium-sized enterprises and their workers who have been so badly affected by the crisis and whose recovery, in a sustainable digital sense, is a key objective on which to focus in the coming months with a look to the future. all these areas will be financed by this programme for the period 2021-2027 and it has already started on 1 january. the programme will allow for synergies with other programmes, such as digital europe, investeu, horizon europe, the structural funds, but also the funds of the national recovery and resilience plans to strengthen a common leverage effect. in particular, i would like to mention the sme window which will be the successor to the old cosme programme for the part of the grants to finance support for competitiveness, internationalisation, digitalisation and mobility, for example by continuing successful projects such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs. we would have preferred an even more ambitious budget, but we are confident that synergies with the other funds will still be able to provide adequate support. as a european parliament we are also proud to have fought for the inclusion of business networks and social economy enterprises among the possible beneficiaries of the funds. we have also emphasized environmental sustainability, we have emphasized vulnerable consumers, we have insisted on a specific objective with its own budget line on market surveillance. the new challenges of ecommerce, new products such as connected products and artificial intelligence applications, increasingly highlight that only effective supervision with adequate resources and sufficient staff will be able to cope with the many and ever new pitfalls that can jeopardise the rights and protection of consumers and citizens, thus ensuring instead that products complying with european rules circulate freely in the internal market, even when they come from outside the union. in conclusion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on the internal market, my predecessor, nicola danti, who was rapporteur in the last legislature, and the opinion rapporteurs of the committees on industry, agriculture, economic affairs and the environment. with five committees involved, it was not easy to reach a unanimous agreement on the negotiations. but thanks to the spirit of cooperation that has always been shown, i have had the support and the confidence to negotiate on behalf of everyone and so we have reached a result that i believe could meet the satisfaction of each of us. i thank the german presidency for having made it possible to accelerate and conclude the negotiations during its six-month term with a constructive attitude. lastly, but not least, let me say a thank you to commissioner breton and the officials of dg growth, as well as of course the officials of the directorates-general involved in the negotiations with dg growth. i think we can all welcome the approval of this programme today, which will certainly be a key element in the engine of european recovery.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that we can have this debate tonight an important step so that you can endorse the single market agenda 20212027. i would of course like to congratulate the european commission on the long-term work of the imco committee and especially the rapporteur, mr benifei, but also the associated parliamentary committees, itre, budg, econ, envi and, of course, agri. this broad mobilisation is the measure of this flagship issue. the six existing action programmes, together with several budget lines for the internal market, totalling eur 4.2 billion, have been brought together under the single market programme and cover areas as crucial as each other: the competitiveness of enterprises, especially smes, the free movement of goods and services, including market surveillance, the protection of consumers and users of financial services, european standardisation and standards for financial and audit information, human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain, european statistics essential for decision-making at european level and for evaluating public policies. it is clear that these issues are extremely important for the internal market. the challenge is twofold: not only to ensure the continuity of the actions undertaken in each of these areas, but also to take a much more strategic approach and also to integrate the challenges specific to the single market, which is constantly facing new developments, with the same ambition: to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, which is the cornerstone of the european union. in a context of growing challenges, notably the health crisis, we have seen more than ever the importance of the single market, of preserving our competitiveness and our strategic autonomy in the midst of globalisation or of ecological and digital transitions. this may seem obvious, but if the single market is to remain the driving force of our economy, we need to ensure that it can be put into practice on the ground so that european businesses and citizens derive the expected benefits without interruption and under all circumstances. and it is far from being a given, we know, definitively, contrary to what was believed until recently. in the course of the past year we have been able to measure the reflex, to illustrate what i have just said, of the retreat into oneself of some of our member states, which is indicative of an intangible reality. when the single market is no longer working, nothing is working, neither for our citizens, nor for our businesses, nor for our economy. of course, this is not about casting aspersions. the emergence of a health crisis of such a scale, unprecedented and without any comparison with the crises already experienced by the european union in the past, necessarily leads to protective reflexes. but i would like to stress that our single market is not so much a given as it is a conquest of every moment that many obstacles will continue to hinder. it is therefore necessary to provide it with more and more resources, in keeping with its founding role in our union. this is the whole purpose and spirit of the single market programme, based on the objectives of efficiency, security, transparency and fairness. i believe that these same aspirations have guided the work of the co-legislators throughout the negotiations, and i know how much your assembly has been keen to defend and strengthen in particular the 'competitiveness' aspect of small and mediumsized enterprises and market surveillance. i am therefore pleased that the text of the agreement in principle reached with the european council last december has confirmed the council's position at first reading, adopted on 3 april, and reflects in its content the principles you have supported from the beginning. the european commission considers that this compromise is the result of the constructive approach of the parliament throughout this process. i would also like to thank parliament on behalf of the european commission for having made it possible to increase the budget for the programme, mainly in the area of market surveillance. this programme clearly embodies our common, shared desire to bring about a more integrated, better governed internal market which is capable of both strengthening the competitiveness of our economy and defending the interests of consumers, workers of course, and of course businesses, while providing them with more opportunities to develop in their respective fields.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the single market - as has already been said - has helped us enormously in the corona crisis, and that is why we are also fully investing in our european single market for post-corona reconstruction. the allocation of eur 4.2 billion for the new internal market programme, which mr benifei has drawn up for us in the committee, is therefore good news, and above all, commissioner, we are naturally pleased that we have received eur 120 million more in the programme than originally proposed by the commission. the new single market programme has three priorities: there are answers to the problems we face today. firstly, it ensures that a new budgetary framework for market surveillance is created, and mr benifei pointed out that in times of the corona crisis we have seen how important good market control is because we do not want unsafe masks and fake disinfectants on the market in europe. secondly, mr president, i would like to say that the the programme states that the competitiveness of eu enterprises, in particular micro-enterprises, will be further strengthened. the total amount available for this is eur 1 billion, which is certainly well spent by the european union's micro and medium-sized enterprises. and thirdly, the budgetary framework also ensures that there is sufficient money for consumer protection, particularly in the area of the digital revolution and globalisation. these are three important arguments in favour of the single market programme.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the death toll in the united states is not exceeded. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is not a step in the wrong direction. all the european acts are aimed at this next generation eu strategy, horizon europe and investeu and this programme which includes the old cosme for smes is also part of the design. the resources may be modest, but the objectives are bold and ambitious. here are a few examples: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of national authorities for the protection of the environment is a welcome step forward. access to credit is facilitated by new instruments; supporting entrepreneurship training and digital, technical and managerial skills that are often lacking in small and medium-sized enterprises and are desperately needed. they help smes to make the technological leap by bringing innovation within these companies and the green transition. it is a very difficult challenge, of course, especially for smes: but it's still the only way to stay competitive. finally, a note of pride for those political forces who have also proposed it with commitment: there is a new element in the programme, which is the social enterprise. i think that if we really want to build a resilient economy, we can no longer keep on the margins of the market that certain type of enterprises, the enterprises of the social economy, which work precisely for social cohesion, for work more than for profit.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is without doubt one of our greatest achievements. it multiplies the growth opportunities for businesses and ensures a high level of consumer protection. the crisis we are experiencing continues to present major challenges. at the same time, it demonstrates more clearly than ever the crucial potential of the single market to contribute to economic recovery and to make our industry and trade more innovative. yes, we are living in a time of great change and we must show just as great a capacity to adapt. this also applies to our market. the single market must be in place; it must adapt to changes in society, in particular digital and ecological changes; it must encourage investment and enable innovation; it must also support smes and attract the best talent and contribute to our overall strategy for recovery and competitiveness. that is why the programme we are adopting this week is so necessary. it will in particular promote a more strategic approach to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market over the next seven years, because our market is an achievement that always requires new efforts. this programme will be the basis for new projects for the future. as you said, commissioner, these projects must be in the service of our choice of strategic autonomy. it is up to us to seize these opportunities and to multiply them for our industries and for our consumers. now is the time to concentrate on its practical implementation to achieve all the objectives set. it is therefore the commission's and above all the member states' turn to be on the spot. let us simply do what we have said and written, ladies and gentlemen, and commissioner, let us do what we have said and written.
mr president, our common market is the cornerstone of the union and the world's largest single market. it contributes significantly to economic growth, competitiveness and employment. it creates a healthy business environment and new opportunities for entrepreneurs. and the european single market will play a key role in europe's economic recovery. in addition to the plans for reconstruction, we must not forget the completion of the common market, particularly in the services sector. it's very often a more efficient and cheaper way to prosperity. we recently organised a second survey of entrepreneurs within sme europe, which confirmed that their main challenge is access to financial resources. i therefore appreciate that the programme provides a simplified, transparent and flexible framework to support activities aimed at achieving a well-functioning internal market. i would welcome more money from the cosme programme, but i believe that the billion euro allocated to the programme will also be used effectively and efficiently. in addition to this assistance, we must not forget that small businesses, as the biggest job creators, will be helped in particular by the removal of barriers and obstacles to the free movement of goods and services. the single market agenda is a prerequisite for the successful transformation of the european economy to a digital and green economy and for the creation of new jobs. let us therefore always keep in mind the essence of european cooperation for its successful future.
mr president, the covid-19 crisis was a significant stress test that exposed the pre-existing limitations of the european single market. it has also led to fraud and unfair practices of various types and forms that have negatively affected both european consumers and smes. given these changes in our environment, what should the solutions be? and what actions does the union want to take? the single market programme is the key to these solutions. the programme will be a crucial element for future recovery and growth while empowering and protecting consumers and small and medium-sized industries to take full advantage of the advantages of the european single market. i would like to congratulate my colleague brando benifei in particular for winning the €150 million dedicated to the financing of market surveillance activities. the money will be used to strengthen the compliance of products sold online, coordination and cooperation between regulatory authorities and support for the market surveillance strategy, among others.
president, we are all longing for that well-deserved summer trip, and with us the aviation, the cruise industry and the entire tourism and travel industry which have been hit so hard by this coronavirus pandemic. with this eu covid-19 certificate, we are making that possible. we can cross the border more easily. with this certificate, we restore a sense of freedom, the freedom of all. we must approach this with care, in other words: the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the eu's anti-vaccination strategy. let us also look a little ahead. this means that the system must be linked to global initiatives, because this benefits the entire travel industry. so, have a nice holiday.
madam chair, we are discussing a very important initiative today that has rightly aroused great public interest. citizens are demanding that we balance the public interest with the rights of individuals, but even the most critical of the bill must agree that the situation we have today has seriously undermined both our freedoms and our economies. and this is not sustainable. i personally believe that the green card can be a useful instrument to facilitate the free movement of citizens, but it must not be discriminatory. that means the vaccine has to be available to everyone. unfortunately, we have not been successful in that so far. but covid-19 testing also needs to be accessible to everyone or even free. it is unacceptable that the cost of a test is 100 euros. it is also important that the green certificate be of a temporary nature and of limited duration. finally, the green certificate must be easily retrievable and usable and must be available to all social groups on equal terms.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank all those who have contributed to the negotiations over the past few weeks so that the green passport can become the fastest law ever to come out of this european parliament, because the citizens deserve clear, understandable, transparent and unbureaucratic rules for the opening-up steps. we need freedom of movement, we need people-to-people contact, and health needs to continue to be at the forefront of that, as we've been doing in this pandemic. for those who have been vaccinated, for those who have been tested for a certain period of time, for those who have recovered with antibodies, it is intended and will be possible for the green passport to allow these openings - for travel, but also for gastronomy, for cultural sites, for sports facilities. from today, with the decision in the european parliament, the ball is in the court of the member states, which i urge to act quickly as the european parliament to create uniform rules and ensure that europe emerges well from the crisis, for the europeans.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the summer of free movement is coming and what are we seeing? denmark is testing a digital coronavirus, france has introduced a limited vaccine passport and estonia wants to start a pilot project. british airways has also announced that it will be introducing its own vaccination certificate. without a european approach, we risk having everyone doing something and developing 27 systems that cannot work together. it's a mess. i hope that by june we will all have our european certificate. that is why we must move quickly in the negotiations. i believe that the european parliament must be vigilant on three important points: the highest level of data protection; address and discuss the costs of pcr testing in order to avoid discrimination and to ensure equal opportunities for all, and in particular young people, to travel; and uniform application and enforcement in all member states, so that no new restrictions are introduced. with the necessary political will, we as europe can show that we can quickly make this work in a matter of weeks. no time to lose!
member of the commission. madam president, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank you for all your contributions throughout this morning's debate. i would like to take this opportunity to say that we share the same objective of facilitating a gradual return to free movement and that we recognise the central role that the digital green certificate can play in this regard. i am of course looking forward to the outcome of today's vote, but as i have already said, the commission is ready to offer all its support to reach an agreement as soon as possible between the co-legislators so that the certificate becomes a reality by the summer. we are ready to start our trialogue work quickly to strengthen data protection safeguards if necessary, in light of the joint opinion of the european data protection board and the edps to ensure free access to the certificate for all, in digital or paper form, to make testing available under the best possible conditions in all member states, to facilitate travel for all, vaccinated and unvaccinated, and to limit the use of the certificate for the duration of the covid-19 pandemic. the commission will also continue its contacts with the member states to ensure the correct application of the recommendation adopted by the member states in october last year. as you know, we are particularly careful to avoid restrictions on non-essential travel and to organise quarantines in good conditions. the certificate is a common, non-discriminatory tool to facilitate the lifting of restrictions on free movement, a fundamental right of european citizens. so let us work together with the council and with you, the european parliament, to ensure that we have the opportunity to put this certificate into place before the summer, so that all european citizens can enjoy this fundamental right more widely.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very grateful for the opportunity to have this debate and for your valuable comments and contributions on such an important subject which we consider to be a priority. as i have already said, the council is committed to opening negotiations with the european parliament to obtain a common european certificate. we share this sense of urgency to reach agreement on proposals which will benefit the lives and movements of our citizens and make an invaluable contribution to the recovery of the economic situation, starting with the tourism sector. the certificate, as has been said here, must win the confidence of the citizens and at the same time make clear the best value of the european union and that we are working in an appropriate and coordinated way at european level to protect and make life easier for the citizens. the council, like parliament, attaches great importance to fundamental rights and guarantees, the right to free movement, the protection of data and privacy, the guarantee of non-discrimination, a consideration which is already in our mandate in these proposals. it is clear that the three certificates provided for in the framework of the digital green certificate should be treated on an equal footing and without hierarchy between them. we therefore understand the concern expressed by the european parliament about the cost of tests, particularly for crossborder workers and students. but this is a complex decision that requires negotiation, that requires us to continue to talk about this issue. we have the question of the legal basis, we have the question of budgetary measures in the member states, we have the involvement of private actors. we need to continue negotiating on this matter. but i want to make it very clear that we share with the commission and the european parliament the fundamental objectives of facilitating freedom of movement, protecting the health of citizens, bearing in mind the need to reduce costs in this respect and respect for the treaties. i am sure that in the trilogues we will be able to find the appropriate solutions as quickly as the citizens ask us to, by the summer.
in writing. we all understand that the free movement of people in europe is restricted by the coronavirus crisis. member states require different types of proof from those entering the country. some countries will only accept a negative pcr test, and some countries will allow entry to those who have a doctor's certificate of disease detection. meanwhile, more than 100 million vaccine doses have already been administered in the european union. it is therefore logical that the european union would like to come up with a common solution that would allow for some degree of restoration of the free movement of people. however, many member states are already working on their own solutions, which are available on different technical platforms. other member states do not have such a data exchange platform and ehealth system as estonia. the creation and widespread adoption of such a solution in the european union would require a very large development leap. i support the idea of a green digital certificate and would like to hope that the european commission will be able to establish, by means of its regulation, the list of data required for the certificate and the order in which they are to be provided, and to create an environment which would allow for the mutual recognition of the certificates of the member states.
in writing. after more than a year of the pandemic, the eu member states have still not taken coordinated action to address such crucial issues as the mobility of citizens within europe. the adoption of unilateral measures has caused chaos and confusion among travellers, and ultimately discouraged travel. now, with the tools we finally have, like the vaccine, the member states have to agree. with this proposal, the commission and the european parliament aim to address this lack of coordination. i would therefore urge the member states to coordinate their efforts to adopt the certificate as soon as possible and to harmonize measures. we need certainty to save the 2021 summer season safely and overcome the false debate facing economy and health. we are creating the necessary tools, based on vaccination, to enable safe travel within the european union.
freedom of movement and residence for persons within the european union is the cornerstone of the european community. it is a fundamental principle enshrined in article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in order to prevent the spread of covid-19, member states have taken measures that have had a negative impact on the free movement of persons. the adoption of unilateral and fragmented measures has created uncertainty for eu citizens. at present, there are wide differences from one country to another in the criteria applied for the adoption of measures restricting free movement within the european union. to get back to normal, we need to create some standardised rules taken at the level of the european union. the purpose of the 'green e-verification' is to facilitate the exercise of the right of free movement and aims to ensure increased coordination between member states. the european union is a continent of freedom, therefore people who are not vaccinated or do not wish to be vaccinated should continue to be able to exercise their fundamental right to free movement, but with some limitations such as mandatory testing and self-isolation. it is time to build a post-pandemic europe, and this can only be achieved through dialogue and cooperation between our peoples!
in writing. the creation of vaccination certificates is another eu initiative to help the recovery. it complements a number of targeted policies such as the common vaccination strategy or the recovery fund, from which the immediate disbursement of resources to the cypriot economy is more than warranted (around eur 968 million). through this ordeal, we have learned that nothing can be taken for granted. that is why we must show political will, determination and solidarity more than ever.
in writing. – we must save summer 2021 and to do so we must act swiftly and effectively. a gradual removal of travel restrictions, rooted in scientific data analysis, is needed. too many smes, too many workers depend on tourism for their livelihood; we cannot fail them. the eu covid certificates are an important step in the right direction; they will boost traveller confidence and avoid fragmented travel restrictions. let us be clear. these certificates are not a travel document and will not discriminate against citizens that have not received the vaccine. an eu citizen will still have the right to travel by following the requirements necessary in the destination one is travelling to. discrimination must never occur, not even when it comes to testing accessibility. we must therefore, at all levels, devise strategies to make covid testing free and accessible. this will boost security of mind and the uptake of travel. let us also maintain the eu as the gold standard for data protection. this proposal proves it; the european data protection authority’s guidelines have been integrated within it to protect privacy. i conclude by reminding that we cannot afford to lose another summer season. we have a responsibility to succeed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the digital europe programme is an important instrument for regaining european leadership in a field where we have not been able to keep up with china and the united states for several years now. an area that has been in the spotlight, even more so, during the covid crisis that we are experiencing. the dissemination and adoption of innovative technologies, artificial intelligence, supercomputing and cybersecurity are crucial challenges to make our production system and services globally competitive, with the essential contribution of the digital innovation poles provided for by the programme to support the digitisation of enterprises. let me also stress that the programme pays particular attention to developing appropriate skills for workers and entrepreneurs of today and tomorrow. human capital will be an increasingly important factor in the face of a rapid digital transformation of the economy and society. this must be accompanied by the creation of a digital legislative framework consistent with the european identity, based on the data we are already working on. this is the europe that challenges the future, that we like and that we need.
mr. chairman, please! we all know that compared to the united states or china, the european union is lagging behind in terms of investment in digital capabilities and advanced technologies. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. actions to support these areas at the same time will help to create a thriving data-driven economy and contribute to social and economic development. i also believe that the introduction of the digital europe programme will provide more opportunities to develop breakthrough solutions to address societal challenges such as healthcare and climate change. i also think it is very important to guarantee support for smes in adapting to the digital transformation. i am pleased that this is the first eu programme to cover digitalisation issues in a comprehensive and horizontal way.
mr president, whilst we do our best to fight the pandemic with the vaccine rollout – which is picking up steam, thankfully – we must also look beyond it to a greener, more digital europe that has the ability to remain prosperous and innovative without detriment to the environment. the benefits of digitalisation have been clear for many years, but the pandemic has brought the digital world closer to home for many people that would otherwise have been adverse or uninterested. if the pandemic had hit ten years ago, with less developed teleworking and e—commerce technology, we would be in a far worse situation. this is why the digital europe programme is so important. it also complements other programmes, such as horizon europe. it is the first financial instrument of the eu focused on bringing digital technology to businesses and citizens by investing in cutting-edge technology. state—of—the—art digital services are crucial for europe in remaining competitive on the global stage. the establishment of the digital innovation hubs is particularly positive. essentially, this is an innovation gateway providing a one-stop shop that helps companies to become more competitive by utilising digitalisation in their processes of production procedure. i was also pleased that the programme specifically allocates a sizeable portion to artificial intelligence. ai offers practical solutions to many long-standing technical problems. digital europe, here it comes.
mr president, the past year has shown how much our daily routine, our society and our economy depend on digital technology. covid-19 has accelerated digitisation and once the wave of the pandemic passes, we must increase its rate. i am pleased that our citizens and smes can make use of the digital europe programme's spending to shape the technological future of the european union. this crucial initiative cannot be taken in isolation; the eu's role in the fight against cybercrime is to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the challenges of the 21st century, including the challenges of the digital age, the increasing use of technology, digital skills, and strong cybersecurity practices, and to ensure that we leave no one behind in this transition. from traditional small businesses, to chambers of commerce, from the public sector to research centres, the digital revolution starts at the bottom. we must ensure that every person and every region, including our islands, is involved in this challenge but also a crucial opportunity.
madam president, today all of us in the european parliament must pay tribute and give due credit to our dear colleague, mr manolis kefalogiannis, for his hard and methodical work. without his enormous contribution, we would not be talking today about this important instrument for our citizens, our economies and our countries, the just transition fund. today is a historic day for the european parliament. it is a historic day because we are giving the green light to the green transition, to the green deal, to the green transformation of europe. the europe that many despise is the only one that, without drumbeats, without empty words, without slogans, is making the vision of many generations of the whole planet a reality and is turning it into a green europe. i want to stress to the highest degree that the just transition fund is what will essentially support all those who will suffer any effects from this transition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension of the fund. as has been said, island regions must also be supported. my country, cyprus, is the island that can be turned into a green island, commissioner, and i proposed this in a proposal that i sent to the european commission, and we can make it a green island because it has comparative advantages, because it can have renewable energy sources and can exploit the potential of the just transition fund.
madam president, mr commissioner, colleagues, a just transition fund that enables all member states to address the social consequences of the decarbonisation of our economy is what we need to avoid the most vulnerable workers and regions paying a proportionate price for the urgent fight against climate change. the opportunities that this fund will offer are many, from upskilling and retraining in the workplace, to investing to support smart mobility and create new jobs. we appreciate the role of this fund in strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union. the most peripheral areas of our continent, including islands, should be at the centre of the environmental transition. the fund is the first positive step. but much remains to be done to make this process truly inclusive and fair, and effective.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, under sustainable development goal 3, we have committed ourselves, all of us, to ending aids as a public health threat by 2030. but i am very sad to see it being fulfilled both inside and outside the european union. how long will we in the envi committee call for a new action plan to combat hiv/aids in the european union? no, commissioner, you're not doing enough. we want it. the old one expired years ago, and nothing's happened. the commission does not act. we're not gonna get rid of this disease in our country by 2030, are we? unfortunately, like cancer, somehow it's been forgotten that aids is still with us. let me remind you that the fight against patents for life-saving drugs was started by nelson mandela during the very early years of the hiv pandemic in africa. this fight has taught us that to end any pandemic, we must put health before profit. our inaction is killing. the member states and the commission must finally get their act together, come up with a new action plan and change their position on the wto proposal by india and south africa, or we will be back here in a few years lamenting that nothing is happening and that the situation is bad.
mr president, the pandemic has affected the lives of each and every one of us, but it has certainly had a much stronger impact on those who already suffered from medical conditions. the restrictions of lockdowns were certainly necessary to protect people's lives but these same restrictions left devastating effects on a number of patients, including those living with aids and hiv, to be able to continue, among others, their treatments. the fact remains that, during the pandemic, the spread of aids and hiv remained a challenge for young people and women, especially, in several of the least developed countries. universal treatment for aids and hiv and quality care can save many lives. it helps to give patients with hiv a near-normal life, while also helping to continue to curb transmissions. everyone has the right to the highest attainable standard of health and, as such, the right to live with dignity. it is therefore important that europe acts today rather than tomorrow to prioritise the fight against hiv and aids; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new strategy for combating aids, which will be based on the eu's strategy for combating aids.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're talking today about your so-called reconstruction program, this unprecedented multibillion-dollar redistribution called the rrf, recovery and reciliation facility. it is quite clear that this is not about rebuilding the european economies. it is simply a question of giving the european commission even more power and putting the member states on a path of debt and redistribution - the path of brussels, the path of leyen, the path of merkel and macron. as with the esm, the funds are conditional on internal reforms. so once again the eu is invading areas that it simply does not concern itself with: an attack on the sovereignty of the european nations and their democratically elected parliaments and governments, which we as the id group are certainly not going to support. the eu commission is shamelessly abusing the coronavirus pandemic to pose as an economic government and to meddle more openly than ever in the internal affairs of member states with other people's money, as always with socialists. the current pandemic crisis is obviously very convenient for you. it is hardly possible to create facts more easily on the road to eu centralism. the community's debt is not more easily shared. but you are mistaken if you think that this will solve the enormous discontent. no, on the contrary! we do not need a debt union or centralism. what we need is a united europe of free and sovereign nation states.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the possible exception of mr meuthen and his friends, i think that many of us here regard the success of nextgenerationeu, this joint recovery plan, as absolutely crucial, absolutely essential, i would not say to the survival of the union, but to its future, quite simply. because we know that the success of this plan can be a tremendous confidence catalyst. first, contrary to what mr meuthen says, our citizens' confidence in the ability of europeans to act together in the face of common challenges: the challenge of the pandemic, of course, but the challenge of the ecological and solidarity transition probably even more so. it is also a catalyst for confidence between european governments and between european peoples in the ability of each to defend the general european interest and not to use the european union when it suits them and, on the contrary, to undermine it when it does not suit them. a confidence in our ability to invest in the future. too often europeans have looked back, have looked in the rearview mirror at past glory; here, we have the opportunity to forge a future. so, what's the definition of success for the plan? the speed: as you have stressed, mr vice-president, for this plan to be a success, it must be implemented quickly, the results must be visible quickly. we also need efficiency, in other words we are meeting the targets, and i would like to quote what dacian cioloş said, in terms of successfully meeting the targets for a digital transition and socially sustainable investments; efficiency, so that every euro spent is spent with maximum result; finally, the question of legitimacy, and that is what we are dealing with today: to prove that mr meuthen is wrong, this european plan must have a very strong democratic legitimacy, and that is the role of parliament. i know that the commission has already made a great deal of effort to involve parliament in its work and we will certainly have to move quickly, but as dacian cioloş said, speed is not the exclusive property of democratic control. every citizen must be able to say to himself: 'everything has been done in a transparent way and my representatives have been able to ensure that the objectives were well respected. i think there is still a further effort to be made, i would say, mr vice-president, because we have two forms of inertia to counteract. the first is territorial disputes: each institution thinks the other institution is a rival. i think that at the level of the leaders of parliament and the leaders of the commission, this rivalry is a thing of the past; but it is not excluded that this form of rivalry continues to exist within the structures of our respective institutions. the other form of inertia is the fact that for years we have been doing something other than the green transition, we have been doing something other than the digital transition, all of this represents a change of direction and to make sure that it happens, i think we have to put the system on a leash and democratic control is the best way to do that.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner dombrovskis, commissioner gentiloni, minister silva, ladies and gentlemen, we have always believed that the principles of democracy, transparency and accountability should be the basis for the functioning of the european institutions. and it is clear that these principles are all the more fundamental when moving important resources in a relationship that must rebuild credibility with individual countries and with citizens. we cannot deny, however, that up to now there have been various difficulties: only 15 states were able to submit their national resilience plans by the deadline set by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and above all, they had to ratify decisions taken in the relationship between national governments and the european commission. it is therefore necessary that transparency should be given priority in the next steps, starting with the contents and implementation of the plans themselves. one of the key aspects of these investments will be the speed of implementation and the corresponding absorption rate of resources. we need only look at the previous experience of the use of structural fund resources to understand, by linking it to the limits and constraints that are rightly established as a percentage of commitment on the part of the funds lost by 2022 2023 to be committed in a legally relevant way, what are the risks we are facing today. in this respect we need a strong role for parliament, one which is not seen as a waste of time, but rather one which is able to give a concrete response to what is needed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a decisive step for the future credibility of the european institutions.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the transition and resilience fund is an important positive step and it must succeed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. we want to reduce inequalities. we want the green transition and the digital transition to be fair, to leave no one behind. we want this money to be managed in a transparent way, with democratic accountability and honesty, so that smes can benefit from it and not just the pockets of small business elites. the regions and municipalities should play a role and not be used by governments as if they were the party's fund. the national parliaments must be involved, because there are countries, such as my own country, greece, where neither the municipalities nor the regions, nor parliament, nor the trade unions and employers' organizations, played any part in the creation of the national plan. this must change and municipalities and regions and employers and workers must play a role, because without democratic legitimacy this project will not succeed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want these programmes to be delayed, we want them to be fast-tracked because people are waiting for them, but we also want the money to be put in place. we therefore ask, mr dombrovskis, mr gentiloni, that the right of the european parliament to exercise democratic control and accountability be exercised in a spirit of cooperation with you. it is not against the commission, it is in order to make the joint effort successful. we shall see at the end whether this fund is sufficient. i personally think that it is not enough, but in order for it to succeed we must all work together so that it does what the far right is annoyed about because it deepens the integration of europe, which is a permanent feature of the union. we want more solidarity, more efficiency, more justice within europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, let me first thank you, all of you, for your engagement, for transparency and accountability, not only this morning but at each and every single step of this unprecedented decision that we took one year ago. your ambition and expectation as co-legislators of the rrf oblige us. it is my deep conviction that, without the political inputs of this house, its fight for eu added value and against fragmentation, we would never have achieved this crucial and unprecedented step. the commission is the guardian of the eu treaties and the parliament is the expression of the european citizens. together, we are more than the addition of 27 national interests. we act to defend the european common good. our intense cooperation on the recovery plans is cooperation for the recovery of europe, to give hope to our citizens that to build back better our societies is possible. it is my utter conviction that the expectations raised and the commitments taken bind us. we have no choice but to deliver and to succeed, and your role is to ensure the parliamentary and public scrutiny in order to make this happen, and speed and scrutiny can and should coexist. we are bound by a legal framework that we are a co-legislator of, that assigns clear responsibilities and stringent timelines. i would like to reiterate that it is the prerogative of the college to give the assessment when deciding to adopt or not the proposal for a council implementing decision, and the regulation as agreed between parliament and council doesn’t foresee a preliminary assessment, as valdis just underlined. let me add also that we will strongly reflect on the way member states approach the consultation process. this is important to ensure a lasting impact of reforms and investment by creating broad ownership. the active involvement of stakeholders will be vital throughout all the stages of the implementation process, and the submission of the national recovery plan is only the first step. also, the involvement of local authorities is crucial for having successful implementation of the plan. for instance, member states have an obligation to ensure close cooperation with regional levels to achieve the objectives of the facility, and the commission will pay close attention to this, because the success of this very important operation will not be achieved behind closed doors. it should be achieved with involvement at national and european level. what we can certainly say and what one can see, reading the plans which have been presented, is that all plans so far address the six pillars, but with different emphasis on the individual six pillars. i would like to underline that the plans have to explain how member states will strengthen job creation and their economic and social resilience in the long term, and contribute to the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. honourable members, parliament has access to the full plans. we very much encourage the members, with your unique expertise and understanding, to provide your views in the context of the recovery and resilience dialogue or through resolutions. we have a very short time but we can do this, i think, in this short time. the preparation of the rrps has somehow created a new form of dialogue between the commission and member states, and i really thank the presidency of the council for this. it is to be welcomed that this translates also into a strong engagement for the accountability of the commission towards parliament. for sure, we are fully committed to report to this house, its plenary, competent parliamentary committees and dedicated bodies, and this debate is a confirmation of this. concluding, let me stress one thing: we are all doing something new. we are learning something new – new resources, new procedures, new shared responsibility and accountability. we will certainly jointly improve what is to improve, but we have common principles, purpose and priorities, ensuring the conditions for a swift and sustainable recovery of our common economy.
acting president of the council. madam president, mr vice-president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to welcome and thank you for this debate on the right to information in the assessment of national recovery and resilience plans. it is a very timely debate and it is a very important debate. the recovery and resilience fund and the national plans that implement it are very important tools to combat the crisis we are experiencing as a result of the pandemic, but also to make the european economy and european society more resilient. each national recovery and resilience plan, by developing reforms and facilitating the necessary investments, is designed to make economies and societies stronger and support our countries in the green transition, the digital transition and also the just transition and therefore the set of national recovery and resilience plans will preserve the internal market of the european union, preserve the european social model, allow europe to continue to lead the climate transition and the digital transition. to do that, we all need to do a number of things. first, we need to complete the process of national ratification of the own resources decision. until the 27 member states have completed their national ratification procedures for the own resources decision, it will be impossible for the european commission to raise the necessary eur 750 billion on the markets. secondly, we need all member states to deliver their national recovery and resilience plans. so far, they've delivered 18, which is a good result so far, but we need everyone to be involved in this process of ours. we then need the european commission to assess carefully each national plan submitted within the timeframe given to it by the regulation, but as soon as possible within that timeframe and we finally need the council to approve each national recovery and resilience plan. the presidency's timetable is clear. we are fully prepared to see the first national recovery and resilience plans adopted at the june ecofin council and we look forward to working with the european commission to achieve this, because time is of the essence here. we need to react with the urgency that the crisis demands. we must respond positively to the wishes and needs of our citizens, to what the social partners propose to us, to what the territorial authorities propose to us, to what our national parliaments and the european parliament demand of us, and therefore the question of time is decisive. but being fast doesn't mean being opaque. we can and must be quick and transparent, and therefore the european parliament's request that information be shared, that the european parliament be able to exercise its powers of scrutiny, is a welcome request, a welcome proposal. i would also like to thank the european parliament on behalf of the council for the impeccable way in which it has collaborated as a co-legislator in the rapid and successful adoption of the regulation on the recovery and resilience instrument, for the way in which it has exercised the powers conferred on it by that regulation and for the way in which it has collaborated with the other european institutions. this is a task for all of us. i would also like to thank the european commission very much for the excellent work it has done and the way it has ensured that this work ensures, at the same time, quality in the assessment of the national recovery and resilience plans and speed in their approval. time is of the essence and, for this, we have had, since the porto summit, also very important support, signed by all the european social partners, in the social commitment of porto. we have the social partners with us, we have the citizenship with us and the conference on the future of europe will prove it once again and we have all the institutions working together to make the national recovery and resilience plans a success and so, with that, also a success of the european transition, the recovery of the european economy, the transformation of the european economy and society into a greener economy, a more digital economy, but always, always with the social model, social cohesion at its heart.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 20 may 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – the recovery phase we have ahead of us will represent a collective effort that requires to pool together the best energies and talents at the european, national and local level. the inclusion of a wide range of institutions and stakeholders will be crucial to ensure the success of the national recovery and resilience plans. european families as well as our businesses, especially the small ones, do expect swift and effective answers to the economic and social rubble the pandemic has caused. while the recovery we envisage is the result of a shared european vision, we must not overlook the national dimension. a strategy that strikes the balance between a common vision and domestic needs, avoiding a one-size-fits-all approach, will be beneficial to our union and its citizens. yet we must enhance the democratic legitimacy and the citizen ownership of the national recovery plans through proper accountability, including towards the elected representatives of the european citizens at the european parliament.
madam president, european industry is a global leader in many sectors. it accounts for over half europe’s exports and provides, directly and indirectly, over 20% of the jobs in europe. industrial leadership will be a key factor in the geopolitical context, as those who set the standards today are those who will have the leverage on the international markets tomorrow. yet europe still lacks a comprehensive and mainstream industrial policy. it is still geographically fragmented, sectorial rather than horizontal. given that europe’s industrial capability underpins other policy areas such as energy, environment, digital, defence, space, transport, tourism and trade, we, the european parliament and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre committee) in particular, give due attention to the union’s industrial policy and point it as an enabler and a driver for the other sectors to deepen the digital and green transformation of our economy. the updated industrial strategy is about making sure our industries are equipped for this twin transition while ensuring they remain competitive, maintaining competitive value chains, jobs and companies. this strategy is about how the eu can maximise its industrial performance by combining its technological and industrial capabilities in a coordinated manner and further develop with uptake of technologies, boosting smes, transforming traditional industries and up- and re-skilling, and to fulfil these ambitions we need investment and a strong commitment from the european commission to support member states and industries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's review of industrial policy for the eu in the face of the pandemic is certainly right. given the two major transformations facing our continent's societies - the digital transformation and the move towards the age of sustainability - it is certainly right that we should be looking for ways to accelerate this. i want to focus on two aspects in my short time. the commission rightly speaks of strategic autonomy and industrial partnerships which should be promoted. that, ladies and gentlemen, is a fine line. but what does this mean exactly in terms of, for example, european state aid law, which is affected when we - i think we are right - provide for a departure from the unconditional principle of globalisation? we'll have to discuss that. the commission proposes - and this is also true - further industrial alliances. this is very urgent, because dependence in strategic sectors already exists in many strategically important areas, for example in the semiconductor sector. last week, deutsche welle reported that production at ford in cologne has been cut short because of a shortage of semiconductors. we must protect ourselves against dependencies, against price dictates and against the deliberate damage to our economy. i expect that to be made concrete and implemented soon.
i have to say, madam president, my dear margrethe vestager, i have to tell you something. many media outlets overlooked a news item when you and the other commissioners recently presented the updated industrial strategy. while other messages - such as support for strategic sectors and the objective of greater european independence - understandably made headlines, i noticed something else, namely that the commission announced a possible legislative proposal on common standards for selected services. well, that's good news! i am very pleased that the commission is considering strengthening the internal market. as i said, we are in the midst of the coronavirus crisis, and the services market has huge potential for billions. earlier this year my own proposal for an improved market for services also received a solid majority in this parliament. thank you for that. the commission must, among other things, put pressure on countries which fail to implement our common rules. we need the whole toolbox to work so we can get the wheels rolling. this is precisely why the news of possible common standards for services is important. i am looking forward to the commission's possible action, and i am sure that the european business community is looking forward to it as well. the single market will of course boost the european economy without, of course, increasing the public debt, and this is very much needed now. i hope something comes from your side.
(introduction to speech with microphone off) ... and businesses in general create jobs. and i think we can agree that these jobs are the foundation of the prosperity in europe that we have built. it is not politics that creates jobs, politics can only create the conditions for enterprises. and the framework conditions in the 21st century cannot be created by protectionism, but can only be created by making our companies competitive. the raw materials and building materials have become scarce throughout europe during or during the crisis. europe's raw materials are bought up by other market players. i do not think i need to mention them here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in line with the objectives of the treaty. the industry is facing - and we have put these stones in our way - serious challenges. and this is not a strategy that we are talking about, but this is the way to a disneyland europe, which will become disneyland for china and the united states.
madam president, and thank you vice-president commissioner. i think first of all we want to welcome really that the commission is coming with an industrial strategy because that is so important. however, what is still lacking is the sense of urgency, what europe really needs to do. it’s too general and not prioritised enough. and i just want to give you a bit of an example by today’s report of the iea, also for some colleagues who think we’re talking about disneyland. even the international energy agency is making a very clear report about how the world needs to be climate neutral and it’s saying investment in clean energy needs to more than triple this decade. if we look at the industry, the innovation will need to bring it and for that investments in innovation needs to increase almost four-fold globally. and important, there is no need for investments in new fossil fuel supply. these are elements that even an international energy agency is putting forward now. europe must lead here and if we really want to lead here, we really need a much bolder, more prioritised and more targeted industrial strategy. i hope the commission will do that in its next steps.
madam president, i welcome the recent update of the industrial strategy, in particular the efforts to strengthen the single market. the key for a successful industrial policy is in fact to help member states regain production capability, in particular for emerging and cutting-edge technologies. europe needs for example to reinforce its production of microprocessors and semi-conductors, as well as high-performance computing and quantum technologies. a basic step that is missing in the industrial strategy is a strong link with horizon europe and its partnerships, but also with the regional funds and the national and the recovery and resilience plans. in addition, in our view, the industrial strategy should create the conditions for the european innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystem to be flexible, agile and the less bureaucratic. coherence between policies and investment is crucial. we needed to revive our industrial competitiveness to create new jobs, to have more and better jobs, and to give the union a true strategic autonomy in key sectors for our green and digital transformation.
madam president, i welcome the commission’s work to recognise strategic dependencies. covid emphasises dependencies and also the value of open trade, but also the risks. recognising 14 industrial ecosystems is a good starting point, but we need the concrete tools to make european ecosystems competitive. europe must invest in digital and climate transition, know-how, skills, and for example deploy own raw materials and boost circularity. the battery ecosystem is a good example. but are we able to see the value and opportunities of the european competitive ecosystem? at the moment too many tools are divided into so-called national envelopes. both the recovery and resilience facility and ipcei are dependent on the ability of each participant member to finance its own project. so i would like to see concrete actions to see these working on the european level. we also need to emphasise the role of international partnerships. trade tools to support fair industrial competitiveness are getting better now. openness with fairness works for european industries and workers.
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has highlighted the fragility of the european industrial system and, consequently, the need to revise the industrial strategy presented by the commission just over a year ago. the centrality of an autonomous and crisis-resilient european industry is now seen as essential to guarantee our future. some sensitive ecosystems - i am thinking of the health sector, but not only that - are heavily dependent on third countries for certain materials or products which, although not very numerous, risk making our production system vulnerable. we therefore need, first of all, to diversify supply chains, especially for raw materials which we do not have. secondly, to ensure greater circularity by recovering resources and, finally, to invest heavily in research and innovation to create compatible alternatives. this must be accompanied by adequate energy efforts, investing in new energy sources such as hydrogen to enable the production system, and in particular those industries considered energy-intensive, to keep pace with climate targets. digital is the other big challenge. with the digital compass, we have set ourselves the target of having 75% of enterprises using cloud, ai and big data and over 90% of smes with a basic level of digitalisation by 2030. ambitious targets, but the only ones that will enable european industry to remain competitive on the world stage.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for a year for this strategy to be updated and we were expecting a clear vision for the future, concrete measures to achieve those climate objectives which the commission says it is so keen to achieve. it was a big disappointment. i will give you the example of the steel industry. you say that steel should contribute to climate neutrality. but when it comes to how you intend to produce steel in the future, there is no clear answer. i would have expected a bold choice: we are becoming the leader in green steel production; we are promoting and developing efficient technologies now; we use scrap steel: stop all coal production; we invest and accelerate on green, non-clean hydrogen, and therefore only renewable energy, rejecting dependence on co2 capture and storage. you talk about the need for radical change in the industry but still no mention of rethinking the model of large polluting and deadly steel mills, from which my land still suffers. it doesn't sound like a strategy for the future to me, but an acceptance of the status quo.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the strength of these new commission analyses and lessons learned from the covid crisis is to identify the dependence of the european economy on its external environment and to identify the sectors necessary to achieve our strategic objectives. the following areas should be mentioned positively in this context: raw materials industry, including raw materials for the development of electromobility, active pharmaceutical ingredients, hydrogen, semiconductors or cloud computing. in my view, a more comprehensive analysis of the state of the post-covid economy is needed, and in this context, an assessment of the feasibility and pace of the dual climate and digital transformation. we can't just pretend like nothing happened. that's what the commissioner said. after all, there was a huge negative impact of covid on the economy. we cannot pretend that we are going to continue to pursue this strategy at the same pace as we have been doing so far. finally, it is very good that the commission is emphasizing the positive benefits of the common single market. unfortunately, it accepts solutions that compromise the competitiveness of services provided by companies from central and eastern europe. this way, commissioner, we have to turn around.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i very much welcome the commission's review of its industrial strategy. we must strengthen our industry in europe and thereby safeguard jobs on the ground. the pandemic has shown how we depend on third countries, for example, in the manufacture of chips or medicines. i think that we in europe must take a specific counter-measure here. the next crisis, the next pandemic is coming. it is therefore important that the new strategy proposes measures to increase our resilience, for example to maintain the flow of goods and supplies in times of crisis or to guarantee the free movement of workers. this is what europe is all about and we should not give up on it even in the worst of crises. it is crucial that the measures in the european industrial strategy are geared to strengthening the competitiveness of our economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. planned economy is bad for innovation. we must instead create an attractive environment that encourages innovation and brings innovation to europe. we need, for example, our own chip factory in the european union. we also need to have lighthouse projects, such as the hyperloop, which we should not only develop in the european union, but which should also be built in the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, production is now recovering, thanks also to the help and encouragement of public investment, but we must have a strategy that only europe can provide, both internally and globally, to deal with issues such as the increase in raw materials or the crisis caused by the lack of certain crucial elements, such as microchips. so, the meeting between the european union and the united states to face together the consequences of the overproduction of steel and aluminium and to decide to defend together - yes, defend! - our production from the actions of countries that distort the market. we must tackle the problem within the eu by strengthening alliances and intensifying cooperation, including transnational projects, and also by reviewing the rules of competition, commissioner, because we need some european champions in key areas. more specifically, we must accompany the transformation of the productive system, because the digital ecological transition will not be achieved solely by the market but requires a very concrete and very effective strategy by public authorities, which will allow innovation to penetrate, for example, into the production of smes and which will also defend this innovation with intellectual property in all sectors.
madam president, madam vice-president, of the many challenges eu industry is facing today, i think it’s worth highlighting two of them. first, and given the scenario of increasing global competition, the need to defend our industrial base from unfair and abusive practices, foreign subsidies or lower production standards that distort competition and undermine a level playing field for our companies. we also need to promote the deployment of sectors and technologies which are key to our future and to our open strategic autonomy, with less dependency on certain products, suppliers and countries. and the second challenge: achieving climate neutrality in the industrial sector. we want our industries to be at the forefront of renewable energy usage, energy efficiency, resource-saving, circular economy and cutting-edge technologies. but i’m afraid that in order to achieve this, more ambition, more support and more concrete actions than those to be found in the revised industrial strategy will be needed.
madam president! what strikes me most about the revised industrial strategy is the much stronger emphasis on the issue of europe's strategic dependencies and the increased awareness that they must be reduced if we are to achieve our goals and be a significant player in the world. in the light of all that has been said and written about globalization in recent decades, this sounds almost like heresy. it seems that the era of neoliberalism has finally come to an end. this is, of course, largely a result of the shock of the pandemic, as well as earlier geopolitical and economic trends. now we want to reduce the strategic dependency while keeping the economy open. europe's strategic autonomy is to be 'open strategic autonomy' - that sounds almost like the square of the circle. take the case of lithium-ion batteries, for example. while there is scope for reducing europe's dependence on suppliers or producers from outside the continent, it seems impossible to achieve full independence or autonomy for the union in this area. it is also clear that the projected multiple growth in demand for raw materials such as lithium, graphite and dysprosium will not be able to be met in the event of further crises and trade tensions. should not the quest for autonomy lead to even more profound changes in development strategy and foreign policy? the eu's dependence on imported raw materials is the result of many debates on limiting the extraction and processing of natural resources within the union, linked to, among other things, environmental protection, high labour costs or urbanisation. in addition to strengthening the mechanisms for waste recovery and import controls, should not at least some of these raw materials be sourced in europe? these are the questions we should be asking ourselves in the future.
madam president, the pandemic has changed the global economic landscape, making it necessary for the commission to update the industrial strategy. there have been many lessons over the last year, but what has been evident is the business case to embrace the green and digital transition. emissions reduction targets are no doubt important. without ambition at the top, there will be no incentive to invest and no certainty for industry to make the necessary changes. however, if we fail to ensure that our ambition can be met with practical action, we can forget about meeting any targets at all. a european green transition is not achieved by forcing industries beyond our borders. we cannot accept a situation in which climate policies lead to employment, increased poverty and the decline of once thriving areas. this ties into both the just transition and the eu’s overall strategic economic interests. i welcome the continued ecosystems approach and i am happy to see additional ambition on industrial alliances, such as the alliance for industrial data, edge and cloud, and also the zero—emission aviation. the green and digital transition are two sides of the same coin and industry needs to play a key part. in this regard, i continue to welcome the ecosystems approach. however, like many, i am disappointed in many aspects of the new strategy. what we have here is all the right ingredients – but no recipe. recipe next please, commission.
madam president, madam commissioner, turning threats into opportunities is a challenging strategic principle, more timely than ever, when we combine the challenges of climate change, the new wave of digitalisation, with the urgently needed competitive transformation of european industry. the pandemic has made even more evident the importance of strategic autonomy in the ability to value value chains and industrial bets. strategic autonomy does not mean protectionism, but interdependence rather than dependence. the revision of the industrial strategy, enabling the european union to play a relevant role in the energy and digital tradition in the global framework, is a decisive step towards securing the entire value chain of renewable energies and green digitalisation, to generate new knowledge and new professional skills and to develop the infrastructure and elements necessary for the consolidation of new industrial clusters. i would also stress the inclusion of mechanisms for sharing good practice and the inclusion of next generation incentive systems through a rigorous european funding discourse. the review of the european industrial strategy makes it more powerful and competitive and combines sustainability and development. let us, then, take immediate action.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, i congratulate you on the update of the industrial strategy. for the last ten years, we've been reindustrialising europe because it's safer to have more industry. services are more vulnerable to the threat of crises. i would like to make three points: firstly, we do not talk enough about small and medium-sized enterprises. they're the ones who have been hit hardest by covid, and they're the ones who have to be the starting point for this whole new strategy. secondly, the extraordinary single market instrument is an interesting idea, but nothing can replace the efforts to remove the many barriers that we still see everywhere. and third, we need less ideology and more just plain pragmatism. we need to support the global export activities of all european companies, if they do not threaten the eu's climate goals, of course, and help others achieve those goals. that's a good example if you think about mining equipment manufacturers. china, russia, turkey, mexico, they're not going to get rid of coal overnight. so they'd better use our machines, which are much more environmentally and climate-friendly in manufacturing and operation. at the same time, these companies represent thousands of jobs in europe. i therefore reiterate my call on the commission to take action to maintain, within the oecd, export credit support for manufacturers of such equipment. this will be a good example of the proper, strong implementation of our industrial strategy in practice.
madam president, mr commissioner, the review of the industrial strategy is the first step to really strengthen the resilience of european value chains and for our smes to respond to the challenges that the pandemic has brought with it and aggravated. access to finance, excessive administrative burden, lack of skills; who has not heard the concerns of entrepreneurs about these key issues? we therefore support the commission's work to strengthen the solvency and growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. we also welcome the fact that we are building recovery on industrial ecosystems and that tourism, a severely affected industry in serious need of recovery, will be given the importance it deserves, through a specific ecosystem. i urge the commission, the council, but also my colleagues in the european parliament, to all move from words to deeds. the recovery of smes cannot wait any longer.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. i believe in a digital europe that promotes the internal market, with less bureaucracy, followed by high ethical standards centred on the human person. as rapporteur for the femm committee opinion, i believe that the digital future of europe depends on the involvement of everyone, without exception. this implies strengthening the role of women as users, researchers, engineers, technicians and entrepreneurs. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we are wasting human capital and this is affecting europe's competitiveness vis-à-vis other economies. it is important to adopt measures to counteract this reality, both in terms of education and employment, in terms of funding and in terms of raising awareness in society in general.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the report by mrs deirdre clune is a good contribution to show how the european parliament should enable innovation through the new ideas of artificial intelligence. we want to promote artificial intelligence in the european union, and this promotion, ladies and gentlemen, can only succeed if we create the right and uniform bases for it in the internal market. in particular, this means that we must remove unjustified national barriers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must therefore be very careful about blanket bans on individual technologies, and here the european parliament's report differs very positively from the recent proposals we have seen from the european commission. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we must create legal clarity for consumers and for businesses - we need regulation for the whole internal market. in order to ensure that robotic operations or software that sorts cvs in a recruitment process do not discriminate, we need clear and uniform rules that are european in scope. finally, it is also a matter of building trust to ensure that ai and its applications operate in line with our european standards and add value in the interests of users, consumers.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. artificial intelligence is taking over the whole of society. artificial intelligence has great potential for society, the single market, the environment, and is found in all areas of our world. and that, of course, gives us a very big responsibility for what we want to do in this area. algorithms control smart vacuums -- we're very excited about that, of course -- but they also entice consumers to shop online, make decisions in human resources or creditworthiness, and yes, they can even be used for automated mass surveillance. these are the problems we need to address to make it clear that we want to make a policy for the people, in the people's interest, so that the positive potential of this artificial intelligence can be harnessed, but at the same time the damage that can be caused by it can also be limited and actually prevented. this means that we have to support and protect consumers in particular, because if an algorithm is flawed, how can a normal person - including me - even know where the problems come from, what is the cause of this problem? if the applications of artificial intelligence can lead to the infringement of fundamental rights, human rights, civil rights, then we must also approach the means of prohibition, because we cannot accept that such technologies are used. yes, we should use all the potential, but yes, we must ensure that the protection of citizens is the first priority.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the digitisation of the european union is a crucial step if we are to continue to prosper and remain economically competitive on a global scale. in order to achieve this, we must ensure that adequate technological infrastructures and telecommunications networks are in place throughout europe: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules. the health emergency also made clear that a regulatory environment that is favourable to innovation and consumers is needed to avoid fragmentation of the digital single market and to remove any unjustified obstacles that still exist in the promotion of artificial intelligence. it will also be essential for the european union to protect and strengthen its digital sovereignty and leadership in the international and strategic digital value chains, while promoting consumer protection, data protection, support for our businesses, improving cybersecurity, always taking due account of the primary role of man, which cannot be removed.
for the left. mr president, commissioner, i believe that the european union should become a world leader in trusted and safe innovation geared to people and their quality of life. however, there will be no trusted ai in the eu unless there are limits to the ways ai is used and there is no acceptance of ai being used in ways that are inherently weakening fundamental rights. i believe that it is necessary for ai systems to be developed, deployed and used in the european union only if they respect ethical principles relating to respect for human autonomy, prevention of harm, fairness and explainability. i thank the rapporteur for the inclusive way in which a significant number of these principles have been incorporated in the report. however, i believe that we should have spoken out more strongly against mass biometric tracking, and that is why i proposed that the amendment mention the european citizens' initiative reclaim your face, which has the same objective. i hope he has your support.
mr president, mr vice-president schinas, thank you very much for your presence in this important debate. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs clune, on this important report which certainly lays the foundations for how we should approach artificial intelligence and the technologies that are coming. artificial intelligence is one of the technologies that will drive the development of our industry, of our smes, but it is not the only one. it's clear. this will give way to more advanced technologies, such as quantum computing, with the potential for multiplying computing capacity. that is why it is important that the legislation we adopt now is prepared for the technologies that are coming and not become obsolete in a few years. the advent of technologies such as quantum computing will allow us to tackle more complex problems in a more agile way than we do today. it will also reduce energy consumption, helping to meet the objectives of the green deal. these technologies have great potential, but they also carry great risks, because they are powered by data. that is why it is very important to ensure the protection and quality of that data, both personal and non-personal. there is a very fine line between the use of personal and non-personal data once it enters the ai system. that is why we must be very rigorous and comply with clear transparency rules that set red lines, if necessary. for example, we must avoid abusive or discriminatory practices towards consumers and businesses caused by the biased use of data in the machine learning process. otherwise, consumers or smes will not trust these technologies and will hinder their development. as vice president vestager has said, in artificial intelligence, trust is a must, not a luxury.
mr president, i would like to thank you. artificial intelligence has enormous potential. it can make our everyday lives better if we make demands and we do! we demand that ai always put people first, because we have to be able to rely on technology. that is the key message of our report on artificial intelligence. firstly, we are ensuring consumer protection. you should know that when you're taking with an artificial intelligence-based system. secondly, we ensure a good balance between innovation and common sense. there must be room for innovation without compromising safety. and thirdly, we call for the reverse burden of proof to be introduced where new technology causes harm. the commission should take all this into account when revising the product liability directive and the directive on product safety in general. of course, what's illegal offline must also be illegal online, whether it's based on artificial intelligence or not. of course i did!
mr president, artificial intelligence is now a key player in our single market. it offers many opportunities, but it also presents many risks. we have two challenges. on the one hand, artificial intelligence must push us to overcome the weaknesses of our market: fragmentation, unjustified barriers, insufficient integration; on the other hand, it must encourage us to develop a new industrial autonomy. a genuine market for non-personal data in europe is possible, but above all necessary; it's up to us to build it. we need to set standards and benchmarks, which will radiate all over the world. above all, we must do so in accordance with our core values, ensuring that we have a permanent human presence to monitor the algorithms. for new technologies and innovation to be adopted, they need investment and trust. to be trustworthy, they must above all be in line with fundamental rights and reflect our european values.
mr president, our european single market is one of our greatest assets, because it contributes to millions of jobs and economic growth, but the pandemic has also shown us that we need to reform it to make it more resilient. we need to complete it, especially in services, and we need to build a common digital market, because the pandemic has shown the importance of digitisation. it permeates every aspect of our lives. in europe, we need to create the conditions to maintain a healthy business environment while protecting consumers from new threats. support for the development of innovation and research, including through the recovery fund and horizon, will certainly play a key role in future success. innovative smes must have sufficient access to free capital and must not be burdened with further red tape. we need to strengthen the protection of intellectual property and patents against unfair practices. on the other hand, we need to keep in mind consumer rights and protection. consumer protection is another of our major assets and in this respect i welcome the new consumer programme from the european commission. consumers must be the driving force behind the transformation to a digitally sustainable environment. the use of artificial intelligence also has great potential in consumer protection, for example in the still current topic of dual quality of products. any such use must be human-oriented and life-enhancing. i also want to thank my colleague deirdre clune for a very good report.
mr president, we are on the verge of a new digital era. it is up to all actors involved, from citizens and businesses to legislators, to ensure that in the new digital single market the values and principles of the european union are not only safeguarded but also reinforced. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties regarding the measures in force. we apply artificial intelligence in various sectors in a way that puts people at the centre. in the transport sector we are seeing a technological revolution, driven by ai, that can benefit society, leading to lower emissions, cost-efficient operations and safer roads. more importantly, technology can help us towards an inclusive mobility market, including for people with disabilities. i close by calling for strong programmes to help our smes enjoy and reap the benefits of change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this debate says it all: the work we have been doing over the past few months is shaping the model for europe's approach to digital and artificial intelligence, ready for the challenges of the future. a model focused on people, rights, consumer protection, especially the most vulnerable, but without forgetting support for innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now seeing a glimmer of light after the pandemic and need support both in terms of legislation and resources. we need to provide legal certainty and a level playing field for all, making it clear that what is illegal offline must also be illegal online and ensuring a level playing field for taxation in the digital economy. we appreciate that the commission has taken into account many of parliament's requests in the proposal on artificial intelligence, including the prohibition of certain uses and the strict regulation of others. we are now ready to improve some aspects of it, particularly with regard to fundamental rights and freedoms, to ensure ai systems at the service of the person, so that citizens and consumers can use it with confidence to improve their lives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work, for she has managed to combine the ambitious challenges of the future, which have now become present, the rights of consumers and the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises. technological innovation has changed our lives and the future holds even more news for us: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states, and has also set up a number of working groups to examine the question of the quality of the information provided by the member states. in fact, in the commission's white paper on agriculture and in the new common agricultural policy, artificial intelligence is an essential component for the future of the sector. new technologies developed by artificial intelligence will also be key to achieving the objectives of the producer-to-consumer and biodiversity strategies, in the interests of producers and consumers, by promoting better production quality, optimising natural resources, ensuring animal welfare, reducing pesticides and fertilisers, and improving product traceability. the single market has always been a founding element of the union and in this way, with artificial intelligence, it can further strengthen the integration process and create favourable conditions for development and the economy.
mr president, manipulation and discriminatory practices targeting people because of their age, sex, religion, sexual orientation, colour of their skin or simply because they have been identified, by algorithms, as uninformed, vulnerable, without values, must never be allowed. large companies like facebook and youtube have been attacked on such practices more than once. to this end, an ethical regulatory framework is needed in europe that is human-centred, risk-based and future-proof and fully respects the fundamental rights of our citizens. and this framework should ensure three things: the protection of consumers, human control over algorithmic decision-making, appropriate and effective redress mechanisms, non-discriminatory and transparent ai algorithm systems, and appropriate information to people when interacting with ai. protecting european people and companies from harmful online business models. . of . of (the president withdrew the floor to the speakers)
climate change is becoming more visible to european farmers. many parts of europe have experienced the worst spring frost this year since 1991. this has had a particularly severe impact on fruit growers and winegrowers, whose crops have been scorched by heat waves in the summer and then lost their buds by the spring frost. this has led to the loss of entire crops. these climate disasters have had a severe financial impact on farmers, at a time when many of them were already struggling with losses due to the coronavirus crisis. despite the major efforts under the green deal and the sustainability of agriculture under the cap, the situation does not seem to be changing in the coming years. the european commission should therefore design the risk management tools to better support farmers in the event of such climate disasters. in addition, the commission should continue to focus on innovation and new technologies, for example to better protect crops from severe spring frost. the recent commission study on new genetic technologies can lead to a new debate on the role these technologies can play in making crops more resilient to the effects of climate change, such as drought, heat or frost, and thus in protecting farmers from financial disasters.
i now open today's voting. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the vote will be taken at 11 a.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting to be open. you can vote until 11:00. the results of this round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 9.46 a.m.)
the minutes of the meetings of 17 to 21 may 2021 shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them. we have arrived at the end of the current week of meetings. i thank all the departments involved, and all the colleagues who have ensured that this sitting has gone smoothly. have a good weekend, it's a holiday weekend. it would be appropriate to stay over the weekend, we could stay there very cheaply, we could do without the services of interpreters, because on pentecost the holy spirit makes sure that people understand each other regardless of their language. i'm afraid that's not possible. i'll see you next week.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 21 may 2021.
i welcome you to strasbourg, ladies and gentlemen, whether you are in the chamber or on the internet. this is a very important day for the european parliament. after more than 15 months, we returned to our headquarters in strasbourg. we have lived through a terrible time, with millions of deaths and much suffering. our daily lives have changed and many of our citizens have found themselves in a difficult economic and social situation. all our countries have stopped, and with them the world has stopped. the resumption of our normal activities in strasbourg is a sign of confidence and hope for all of us. thanks to the contribution of each and every one of you - meps, political groups, staff - we have been able to keep our institution running and to ensure that the european union can take initiatives to protect the lives of our citizens. the european parliament has had to adopt extraordinary measures and new working methods to enable our assembly to carry out its duties and to make use of its prerogatives. parliament has always stressed the need to emerge from this crisis stronger and more united by ensuring a just and equitable ecological and digital transition and by building a more equal society, where the most vulnerable among us, who have also been the most affected by the crisis, will not be left behind. through our parliamentary work, we have helped to improve all the instruments for overcoming the crisis: the 'next generation eu', the recovery and resilience mechanism, the rule of law and cross-compliance, the multiannual financial framework and the own resources. we will continue to work on climate legislation, the digital agenda and the pact on immigration and asylum. now that we are back in our house in strasbourg, i would like to thank the french authorities for their support and cooperation during these months and the citizens of strasbourg for their understanding and unfailing hospitality. i would like to take this opportunity to greet the mayor, who is present with us today for the opening of this plenary. strasbourg is a symbol of european unity, peace and diversity. it is on this land that the absolute need for europe was born. it is gratifying to see that after 15 months of the pandemic, public confidence in europe is growing in our 27 countries. we must not lose sight of the pain and sacrifice of our citizens. today, strasbourg is once again the symbol of renewal. i wish you all a good job during this busy plenary session!
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the commission statement on the state of the union for smes [2021/2709 (rsp) ] and the commission statement on the implementation of the better regulation agenda - reduction of administrative burden [2021/27 (rsp) ]. i would remind the honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure in these discussions either, nor will there be any blue-card questions. as in previous partsessions, the parliament's liaison offices in the various member states will also be responsible for remote assistance. i welcome commissioner schinas to the house and give him the floor to open the debate on the state of the union of small and mediumsized enterprises.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not commissioner schinas, i am not commissioner breton, but he asked me to replace him because he is involved in important negotiations on vaccines, so you will understand that he cannot be here. i am particularly pleased to do so because, as commissioner for employment, i know that small and medium-sized enterprises play a fundamental role in job creation, especially in the context of recovery. mr president, i would like to express my gratitude to the european parliament for its strong support for smes, earlier reports on the subject and for putting the state of european smes on the agenda. since the beginning of its mandate, this commission has put smes high on the agenda. the president, already in her first speech before this parliament, committed to a new sme strategy, and we published it within the first 100 days, shortly after the world plunged into a pandemic and an unprecedented crisis that hit smes hard. the sme performance review shows that across the eu, value added in smes fell by 7.6% in 2020. 1.4 million sme jobs were lost. at all stages, our support to smes has been, and remains, central in the short term to facilitate immediate relief, in the long term to stimulate the recovery. we have approved state aid measures allowed under the treaty in special circumstances. this enabled a rapid response to companies' liquidity needs, thus avoiding further layoffs and bankruptcies. we reinforced lending to smes with eur one billion from the eu budget in order to help 100 000 european businesses and leverage eur eight billion of financing. the demand to use these products was unprecedented across the european union. the covid guarantee fund by the eib group is expected to mobilise up to eur 200 billion in financing for european companies, mostly smes. the sme strategy remains our compass for the long-term recovery. its priorities digitalisation, sustainability and resilience have only gained in importance. all 33 actions of the sme strategy have started. the recovery and resilience facility gives a major boost to the strategy. member states are proposing reforms and investments that will benefit smes, such as for digitalisation, upskilling and vocational training, as well as through public procurement opportunities. we are now in the process of assessing the national plans. smes and start-ups should benefit from a stronger single market, increased resilience and the accelerated green and digital transitions, fostering smes' potential for quality job creation. this is why sme dimension is strongly present in the updated industrial strategy. let me give you an overview of the key actions, starting with the twin transition. first, digitization is needed. digitalisation is a key enabler. by 2030 we want 90% of smes to reach at least a basic level of digital intensity and 75% of companies to use cloud, ai and big data. we will support smes along the way close to their home. their access points will be local european digital innovation hubs, the european enterprise network and industrial clusters. together they will provide advice and lead any small company to specialized testing and experimentation to help deploy innovative products and services. data is raw material for new business models. we work on making sure sme data is more secure and we incentivise data sharing and we reuse, while preserving our values and ensuring fair access to data for smes. let me turn to the green deal. this is europe's growth strategy, and we should make sure that smes benefit from it. start-ups and scale-ups offering clean tech solutions are facing a deployment challenge. to this end, we are developing a digital clean tech investment initiative to pool european, national and private funding for scaling up businesses in this area. we also look at hydrogen solutions batteries life cycle, carbon capture solutions, device repair and refurbishment and electro-mobility as business opportunities for smes. setting rules that allow for technological advances and market entry for smaller companies is essential. that is also why we prepare the intellectual property action plan and offer ip vouchers for smes. access to finance is key. smes will need to make substantial investments at times where many of them are short of liquidity. a dedicated sme window under investeu could trigger eur 45 billion of investment in more than 170 000 smes by 2023. the commission is also expanding support for scale-up capital and for initial public offerings to provide finance across all stages of an sme's life, from start-ups to growth and to exits to public markets. finally, let us not forget our structural funds, horizon europe and the european defence fund, with its built-in incentives and considerable resources to attract smes. i would just add also the european social fund+. a resilient and sme-friendly business environment is important. in that context, financial support alone is not enough. we also need the right framework conditions in which smes can thrive and fully benefit from the single market as their launchpad for growth. not being paid on time can be an existential matter for smes, in particular in crisis times. the commission is improving the effectiveness of the late payment directive and monitoring smes' liquidity through a new late payment observatory. digital, green, innovative and socially responsible procurement creates opportunities for smes. the public procurement directives have considerably lowered the administrative burden for smes. procurement eforms have introduced an sme-friendly label. it allows smes to spot specific business opportunities easily. collaboration can boost sme performance the important projects of common european interest, as well as industrial alliances and partnerships, will see increased participation of smes and start-ups. let me now touch upon an important topic for this debate: the regulatory burden. reducing this burden remains a key priority. the better regulation communication reinforces our commitment to evidence-based policymaking through improved consultations with stakeholders, better analysis of impacts, and a strong attention to efficient regulation. the one-in-one-out principle allows us to better address cumulative burden. smes often experience burden more strongly than other companies do. this is why our better regulation efforts take into account the need to foster small business recovery and build their resilience. we will reinforce the sme test and complement it with the sme filter to identify those initiatives with significant impact on smes at a very early stage in the preparatory process. careful assessment of the impacts on smes will ensure that our action is targeted, achieves its objectives and does not add unnecessary costs. finally, smes need a strong voice in eu policy making. the pandemic has hit smes across the industrial ecosystems in an unprecedented way. at the same time, smes will be the key to green and digital recovery. that is why we will reflect further on how to best design the mandate and role of the next european sme envoy and how to structure the work of the network of national sme envoys to make sure our actions are anchored locally and respond to the realities and needs of small businesses. while the commission shares the sme community's eagerness to appoint an sme envoy, we have decided to take some extra time to conclude the appointment. let me assure you there is no void in the interim. the network of sme envoys is operating at full speed across borders and is chaired in the interim by the deputy eu sme envoy. to conclude, supporting and embracing small businesses is both necessary and vital to recovery and twin transactions. it will take a concerted effort by all of us, and i know the european parliament shares this sense of urgency, and i count on our continued and effective cooperation, our joint objective of promoting smes in the european economy.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i am pleased to be here in strasbourg and to take part in the debate on small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of european industry. smes make up 90% of european businesses. around 60% of all enterprises today are family businesses and provide up to 50% of all private sector jobs in the european union. yet smes remain particularly vulnerable. they still find it hard to deal with administrative burdens, to access finance, to operate across internal borders and, even more so, to export outside the union. moreover, the current pandemic has also had an impact on smes. in addition to its impact on public health, covid19 has caused a major impact and massive dislocation among small businesses. the impact has also varied across sectors, with retail, arts and entertainment, personal services, food services and tourism on the one hand, versus businesses that were better able to move to digital or remote methods on the other. the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), which i chair, and the ppe group, which i represent, call for a more ambitious and comprehensive european industrial policy and an sme policy that is easy to implement and that will enable our smes to thrive and scale up where possible. the sme dimension is at the core of the updated industrial strategy. however, more needs to be done. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the importance of the sme envoy, the need for strong support within the european commission, and the need to make the official appointment as soon as possible, in order for the network to provide structured and systemic assistance. we should not forget that smes are a key driver of innovation, employment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social cohesion in our societies.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, thank you for this important debate. the creation of jobs, the skilling of workers, the social value of work, ‘thinking small first’ – support to smes means all of this. that support to smes is progressive. with today’s debate we pay tribute to the efforts that many entrepreneurs have been making, leading with micro, small and medium businesses, especially in this last difficult year and a half. yet a high—level discussion alone is surely not the solution for all the challenges european smes are facing. whilst the recovery phase has started, the liquidity relief measures that have so far helped smes weather this crisis must be continued for an adequate period of time. we need to move from the short to the long term, funnelling investments to small firms – investments that make them truly resilient and better equipped for the twin transition. we should guarantee equal opportunities for all, including for female entrepreneurs and for smes operating on islands in the most peripheral areas of our union. boosting once again the confidence of our small entrepreneurs cannot happen without investment and innovation, eliminating unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles along the way. we cannot fail this time. we cannot miss this opportunity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the new treaty on european union. we have been negotiating the statute of the european ombudsman for years. the council has long sought to limit the mandate of this body. and now, finally, the miracle has been achieved: there is an agreement. i would like to thank the portuguese presidency for this. my group welcomes the changes to the statute, in particular the proposal by parliament at the beginning of the year to introduce a two-year waiting period for meps, ministers or eu commissioners who wish to become european ombudsman. we also expressly welcome the fact that the ombudsman is now also responsible for the protection of whistleblowers. we also support the legal agreement on current practice, which gives the ombudsman the right to conduct inquiries and make recommendations on his own initiative. the 2020 annual report makes it clear how important this is, especially in the interest of citizens' trust in politicians and in the eu institutions. that is why our ombudsmen have a lot of energy and will continue to be committed! i can assure you that the european parliament will do its utmost to ensure that this success continues.
madam president, this is a wonderful example of the european parliament maintaining democracy. i want, first of all, to congratulate my colleagues in the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) for this important achievement that preserves the autonomy of the mandate of the european ombudsman. this long—awaited statute will increase the role, and also the capacity, of the european ombudsman as an independent and impartial body in charge of supporting our citizens, businesses and organisations in the face of problems with the eu administration by investigating complaints about maladministration by eu institutions and bodies. the committee on petitions (peti) is playing a crucial role in the ombudsman’s election by holding hearings where the candidates running for the post of european ombudsman present their priorities. therefore, for us, the introduction of the new cooling—off period of two years is a key priority and also a guarantee of the independence of this position, which is also a crucial element for the functioning of the eu in a transparent and democratic way.
mr president, commissioner, if we want women to lead the future on equal terms, they have to be in the professions of the future. science, technology, engineering, math are careers that lead to jobs of the future. some of them don't even exist today. more and more girls are going to school and getting into university, but prejudice, environment and social pressure condition them to not choose these careers. in my experience as a teacher at a polytechnic university i've seen it up close. female students and teachers are a minority. we need to break the glass ceiling and empower girls to bet on these races. the future european education area should help us to combat stereotypes that undermine women's abilities in these sectors, to promote gender equality through specific measures and to create inclusive digital learning. only then can the european union improve the lives of europeans and close the gender gap in science and technology careers once and for all.
mr president, i believe it is the duty of all of us to be here and to fight for gender equality, for equal representation of women, because this is part of our culture, it is something that should be taken for granted in a modern society, it is something that both men and women should be concerned about every day. but the fact that we are here today discussing yet another report, that in 2021 - whereas the treaties provide for gender equality, and over time too many reports of the european parliament, if only partially implemented - that equality would have been achieved and that it has not been achieved to date, demonstrates simultaneously, and we must acknowledge it, the failure of the european commission and the european council to implement the obvious: gender equality at all levels. i am a proud european, i am a europeanist, but it is an insult to the european union that it has not achieved gender equality, equal representation. we are talking about equal representation in the digital world, in science, where only 17% of women are involved in start-ups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union should be the amidora, the champion of women's rights across the length and breadth of humanity. here we see a country, turkey, withdrawing from the istanbul convention and, from this step, the european commission and the european council tell us that turkey is a strategic partner, at a time when it is flagrantly violating women's rights and millions of women are, in effect, under the regime and boot of turkey where their rights are violated and we continue to finance and support them. finally, the european union must take practical measures, both against countries that violate women's rights and against those that actually withdraw from the istanbul convention.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this very interesting exchange. gender equality is one of the fundamental values of the european union and the european pillar of social rights makes it one of its key principles. the report highlights that if more women choose stem-related studies and careers, the eu’s productivity and competitiveness will increase. we cannot achieve a dual green and digital transition in europe without the participation of women in research and innovation. innovative solutions and scientific excellence depend on diversity. we need diversity within our research teams in order to solve complex societal challenges, such as those – for instance – related to the covid-19 pandemic. thanks to the gender-mainstreaming approach across all eu policies, we are achieving positive results. so the monitoring tools developed will help us keep track of this, be it the regional gender equality monitoring tool, including on data on women in stem by the joint research centre, or the monitoring tool for the implementation of the european strategy for gender equality by the commission, i welcome that the european parliament increasingly addresses the under-representation of women in stem. the commission is your ally and will continue to work with you to achieve the ambitious goals of this report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 june 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. quality and inclusive education should play a key role in increasing the participation of women in ict and smes and in ending the gender gap in this area. the aim of the project is to develop a comprehensive and integrated approach to the digital economy, which will enable the development of a digital economy in the union. i welcome the digital education action plan 2021-2027 and its action 'encouraging women's participation in the field of det'. research shows that in the eu, girls represent only 36% of the ttmm graduates, which should be increased. the report contains many good and important findings, but also contains elements that i strongly reject, such as gender-based data collection, the eu strategy on gender equality, the introduction of quotas for lgbti women, etc. i think women play a very important role in science. this is well illustrated by the example of dr. katalin karikó, without whom the management of the covid-19 pandemic would be unthinkable. good teachers, supportive and motivating environments will help to get more women into science, because there is a great need for them here, so i encourage girls and women to dare to enter this career.
in writing. – it does not happen often that the european parliament hosts a debate on the promotion of gender equality in science, technology, engineering and mathematics careers. i welcome that this has taken place in this historical period, ahead of a recovery phase that should seek to also enhance the empowerment of women in the digital transition. a gap between men and women still exists when it comes to the uptake of stem subjects. girls and women are not less competent than boys and men, but – very often – these careers are subject to gender stereotyping and a general cultural discouragement that prevents many young women from pursuing a professional path in scientific fields. the european union should promote concrete actions to bridge this gap, we cannot afford anymore to perpetuate gender stereotypes! ensuring bias-free hiring processes, supporting female students to navigate the opportunities the stem careers can offer, investing massively in the actions of the european skills agenda that support girls and women to become scientists, engineers, mathematicians – all this will contribute to making the digital transition an inclusive and gender-balanced one.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, autism is a disability affecting nearly 5 million europeans. in france, about 700 000 people have an autism spectrum disorder. but far beyond these figures, these people face real difficulties: difficulties in their daily lives, difficulties in training, difficulties in finding a job. and it is true that the covid-19 pandemic has made it even more urgent to adapt distance learning to make it more inclusive. today, there is no magic solution that could be implemented to help these people, because there is a great diversity regarding people who are in autism situation and they have different needs. so i think we need to focus our efforts on three areas of work. first, i think we need more data, more information about who people are and what their needs are. today, too little research is being done on invisible disabilities, including autism. secondly, the employment rate of people with disabilities is much lower than that of people with disabilities. so we have to do better, adapt the stations for example. and thirdly, i think we need to do everything we can to fight discrimination by improving access for all to education, learning and training. finally, i would like to say that during this week in this house, the leitmotif throughout our last debates has been that of a social and inclusive europe which leaves no one behind. well, now let's put all our proposals into action.
mr president, commissioner, it is estimated that on a european basis we have five million people who fall on the autism spectrum. the majority of them suffer from stigma and discrimination, too, which often leads to their being deprived of healthcare, education, vocational training, employment opportunities and equal participation in our society. people with autism should be respected and accepted as an important value in society. and we can only do so by protecting their fundamental rights. recently, the commission launched and launched the disability strategy which is ultimately designed to offer more opportunities and a more equal environment to all people with various disabilities. however, i believe that the strategy does not have enough focus on the problems and realities of autism, especially in the implementation of their fundamental rights. first, we need to have more inclusive education targeted to those people who fall on the autism spectrum, we need more attention to vocational training for people with autism. equal opportunities are also needed in terms of employment opportunities for these same people and also in terms of social security protection. it is also necessary that employers are given all the necessary training so that they can ultimately understand the realities faced by people with autism. but i think the most important thing is to have a common definition on a european basis of disabilities, because it can help those people who have autism to have their basic rights, their fundamental rights, respected in the same way in every member state.
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you, hildegard bentele, for a good report that we have made together. unfortunately, there is no debate on this, but i would like to highlight a few points. we need to step up efforts to make health systems resilient around the world, especially in developing countries. covid-19 has highlighted this once again. the situation is getting more difficult. we have a huge funding gap in the fight against hunger. we need 32 billion worldwide and we have 17 billion, so only about half. and that is why it is important that we tackle an issue, and this is what the council is asking for in particular: we need better funding, a fair donor mentality and unfortunately many member states in europe are not covered. this may be the task of parliament, it may be the task of the commission, but it must be very much on the agenda of the european council. this is a matter of urgency.
in writing. the forthcoming european council is expected to discuss a number of very important issues. in particular, it is necessary to discuss and agree in detail on joint union action to be better prepared for possible future pandemics and other unforeseen public health challenges. the eu's collective capacity and resilience in the face of unexpected mass crises must be strengthened. the covid-19 pandemic, which has been ongoing for many years, has had a huge social and economic impact, which shows that the eu is not very well prepared to deal with global crises and this needs to be corrected. another important item on the agenda of the forthcoming meeting is belarus. the minsk regime continues to pursue a policy of intimidation not only within the country and against its own people, but also against other countries. my country borders belarus and this issue is particularly pressing. i urge the leaders of the states to do everything possible to secure the release of the kidnapped journalist and his girlfriend, to free the political prisoners who have fallen victim to the lukashenka regime. every effort must be made to put an end to this brutal regime and to allow the belarusian people to freely choose their own leaders.
in writing. – the fact that we are here today, discussing the renewal of the malta declaration should be the proof of the eu’s failure to correctly address the migration crisis. where is the famed eu solidarity? the valletta summit of five years ago seemed like a promising start for change. the summit saw leaders of countries of origin, transfer and destination make pledges to be more involved and support the effort. today, unfortunately, mediterranean countries like malta are still left prevalently alone in dealing with the arrival of irregular migrants. the story is the same each year. come summer, the number of arrivals and deaths in the mediterranean rises. this is abhorrent. instead of playing accusatory political games, governments must act. as a start, we must cooperate with countries of origin and of transit to tackle the root causes of migration, whilst effectively protecting migrants and asylum seekers. i urge all member states to work towards true european solidarity with effective and mandatory burden sharing mechanisms. i urge them to shift from declarations and words towards action.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the united nations secretary-general, antónio guterres, who has been re-elected for a second term and who is also here to celebrate the partnership between the european union and the united nations. the european parliament greatly appreciates your commitment to strengthening multilateralism, reforming the united nations, and continuing to respond effectively to the challenges we face. we greatly appreciate your efforts to create a community of like-minded states, regions and cities for climate action, as well as your leadership in these times of crisis. these issues, mr secretary-general, are also very dear to the european parliament. i am very glad that you have accepted our invitation and that you are able to address the european parliament today.
secretary-general of the united nations. – mr president, distinguished members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to finally be back in brussels. having myself been a member of the portuguese assembly for 17 years, i am particularly honoured to address the european parliament. we live at a time when the strategic partnership between the european union and the united nations is more indispensable than ever. on behalf of the united nations, let me begin with two words: thank you. you are the largest budgetary contributor to the united nations system. in addition to the regular and peacekeeping budgets, the european union and its member states provide un agencies with life-saving voluntary contributions. these funds go towards our development activities and other crucial aspects of our work, including human rights. you are also the biggest humanitarian donor. in a global context of skyrocketing needs, with more than 34 million people on the brink of famine or famine-like conditions, you have significantly increased your humanitarian budget. i thank you for working with the united nations to help the most vulnerable populations in more than 170 countries. thanks to the spotlight initiative, the eu is our most important partner in our commitment to end violence against women and girls by 2030. you have also supported efforts to adopt and implement the most ambitious institutional reforms of the united nations in decades, making our organization more agile and fit for purpose in an ever-changing global environment. finally, in the context of an unprecedented global health crisis, i commend the european union for reaffirming its solidarity and support for the covax facility, and for its ‘team europe’ approach to help countries tackle the impact of the pandemic. and, in these difficult times for all europeans, i wish to express my deepest condolences for the hundreds of thousands of lives lost in your countries to the covid-19 pandemic, including my own country, portugal. dear members of parliament, we are at a crossroads and the situation can go either way: breakdown or breakthrough. breakdown and perpetual crisis, or breakthrough leading to a greener, safer and better future for all. i will do everything in my power to push for breakthroughs. the pandemic has revealed our shared fragility, our inter-connectedness, and the overwhelming need for collective action. our biggest challenge and greatest opportunity is to use this crisis as a chance to pivot to a greener, fairer and more sustainable world. contributing to more effective global cooperation to address global concerns is a priority for my second term in office. the driving theme is prevention in all its aspects: from conflict, climate change and pandemics to poverty and inequality. dear members of parliament, the covid-19 pandemic has revealed utterly inadequate health systems, huge gaps in social protection, and major structural inequalities within and between countries. while some countries are slowly starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel, the virus remains a threatening reality in many places around the world, and therefore to us all. the pandemic is causing more deaths today than a year ago. vaccines are our only way out of this crisis. they must be considered as a global public good, available and affordable to all. vaccine equity is not only the greatest moral test of our times, it is also a matter of effectiveness. as the virus tends to mutate, nobody is safe until we are all vaccinated. sadly, the world is not rising to the occasion. we face the spectre of a divided world and a lost decade for development. unless the african continent receives 225 million additional doses, almost 90% of african countries are set to miss the september target of vaccinating 10% of their people. and if we want to get 75% of the world’s population vaccinated, we need not one but 11 billion doses. we must step up the global vaccination effort. (applause) as i reiterated at the g7 meeting, we need a global vaccination plan. vaccine-producing countries, and those that will be able to do so if supported, must come together in an emergency task force, supported by the world health organization, the vaccine alliance gavi, and international financial institutions. such a task force would need to be able to mobilise the pharmaceutical companies and key industry actors. it would aim to define and implement a global vaccination plan to ensure the vaccination of the entire world population as early as possible in 2022. that requires exploring all options, from voluntary licences and technology transfers to patent pooling and flexibility on intellectual property rights. addressing supply chain bottlenecks is also critical to scaling up production rapidly around the world. the european union must use its leverage as a global actor to help in this effort to ensure fair and equitable access to vaccines for all. from the outset of the pandemic, the united nations mobilised early and in a comprehensive manner. we led a global health response, provided life-saving humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable, established instruments for rapid responses to the socio-economic impact, and laid out a broad policy agenda for action on all fronts. we also provided logistics, common services and operational support to governments and other partners around the world as they mounted national responses to this unprecedented global challenge. but as we start to draw lessons from the pandemic, we must ensure that the world never again faces a crisis of this magnitude unprepared. that requires sustained investment, global solidarity and collaboration to strengthen local, national and regional capacities. i welcome the report of the independent panel for pandemic preparedness and response, led by helen clark and ellen johnson sirleaf, calling for a new global instrument to respond faster to disease outbreaks. i also support last month’s decision by the world health organization to hold a special session in november 2021 to consider developing a new international instrument on pandemic preparedness and response. that should include an increased authority of the world health organization, namely on information gathering, sharing and evaluation. no single country can address pandemics and global health emergencies alone. mesdames et messieurs les députés, la pandémie a également mis en évidence et amplifié des inégalités économiques, sociales et environnementales criantes, y compris en europe. dans de nombreux pays, elle a accentué les problèmes structurels tels que les capacités sanitaires limitées, les systèmes éducatifs inadaptés et les limites de l’administration publique. ceci remet en cause des décennies de progrès. la pandémie est également une occasion unique de forger des sociétés plus durables, plus résilientes et plus justes. mais une fois de plus, nous voyons des inégalités choquantes entre les pays développés et les pays en développement. alors que certains pays peuvent mobiliser des milliers de milliards pour relancer leurs économies, des régions entières, notamment dans l’hémisphère sud, sont abandonnées à elles-mêmes. alors que les économies avancées investissent près de 28 % de leur pib annuel dans les plans de relance, les pays émergents et à revenu intermédiaire ne peuvent mobiliser que l’équivalent de 6,5 % de leur pib, et ce chiffre tombe à 1,8 % pour les pays les moins avancés, soit plus de quinze fois moins! les conséquences sont immédiates. si, pour l’année en cours, les projections de croissance de l’économie mondiale sont de 5,6 %, elles ne sont que de 3,4 % pour le continent africain. c’est une tragédie africaine en marche. tout cela freine bien évidemment la lutte contre la pandémie et risque de creuser davantage encore les inégalités. des centaines de millions de personnes sont tombées dans la pauvreté. des pays sont au bord du défaut de paiement. la moitié de la population mondiale n’a pas accès aux services de santé dont elle a besoin. et pendant ce temps, rien que l’année dernière, la richesse des plus fortunés a augmenté de 5 000 milliards de dollars. je réitère mon appel aux gouvernements pour qu’ils envisagent une taxe de solidarité ou un impôt sur la fortune pour celles et ceux qui ont profité de la pandémie, afin de financer la relance socio-économique. (applaudissements) mais au-delà, les pays en développement doivent avoir accès à des liquidités supplémentaires. dans ce contexte, je renouvelle mon appel à soutenir les personnes et les pays les plus vulnérables, y compris, si nécessaire, par un allègement de la dette. si nous voulons éviter une plus grande crise économique, nous devons mettre en place un mécanisme mondial qui renforce la transparence et la viabilité de la dette. cela nécessite également d’étendre l’accès aux initiatives en matière d’allègement de la dette à tous les pays en développement et à revenu intermédiaire dans le besoin. je suis encouragé du soutien pour une nouvelle allocation de droits de tirage spéciaux par le fonds monétaire international et la réaffectation des droits inutilisés pour soutenir les pays vulnérables. j’espère pouvoir compter sur votre soutien. mais nous devons aller bien au-delà. nous avons besoin de mesures audacieuses et ambitieuses. plus que jamais, l´agenda 2030 et les objectifs de développement durable doivent constituer notre feuille de route collective. dear members of the european parliament, this brings me to another global fragility: the state of our planet. on the climate front, the eu has shown the way with the green deal, a commitment to net zero emissions by 2050, a higher 2030 target and just transition plans, also thanks to you, members of the european parliament. the global coalition for net zero emissions is gaining momentum, and countries representing 70% of the world economy and 65% of global carbon dioxide emissions have now committed to carbon neutrality by 2050. this drive for net zero emissions must become the new normal for everyone, everywhere – every country, company, city and financial institution, including key sectors such as aviation, shipping, industry and agriculture. all commitments to net zero must be underpinned by clear dates to end fossil fuel subsidies and finance, as well as credible plans to halve emissions by 2030 at the latest. we also need to re-establish trust between developed and developing countries. we once again look to the eu to become a powerful bridge-builder in the run-up to cop26. the way to do so is by fulfilling the promises that were made in paris, namely regarding the mobilisation of usd 100 billion of support to developing countries, every year. this is not a symbolic pledge, it is a vital commitment. we can only ask for more ambition if we provide additional support. a breakthrough on adaptation and resilience must also be a global priority. with many countries on the frontline of the climate crisis, we have a moral imperative and a clear economic case for supporting developing countries to adapt and build resilience to current and future climate impacts, and this requires adequate and predictable financing. yet adaptation represents a mere 21% of climate-related financial support to developing countries. i reiterate my call to donors and multilateral development banks to ensure that at least 50% of climate finance is for adaption and resilience. the success of cop26 rests on achieving a breakthrough on adaptation and finance. i urge european countries to step up their technical and financial support to developing countries well ahead of the cop26. dear members of the european parliament, lawlessness in cyberspace represents another growing fragility. covid-19 has laid bare both the potential and the challenges of digital technologies. today, the online world is largely dominated by commercial interests and shaped in ways that do not always serve the public interest. advertising models amplify sensationalist and misleading content. big tech companies exercise extraordinary control over issues that profoundly affect peoples’ lives. we need to have a say in the use of our data, which is not only used for targeting advertising, but also to manipulate our perceptions and to shape our behaviour, and surveillance and manipulation are also used by some states to control populations in undemocratic ways. violence and harassment online targeting women and girls have massively increased, causing devastating damage and pushing many women out of the public conversation. virtual threats have real-life consequences. we are no longer questioning if regulation is needed, but asking what type of ‘good regulation’ should be put in place. we must address cyber insecurity, reclaim the online space as a public good, and confront hate speech, misinformation and human rights abuses, and this also applies to artificial intelligence. human beings must remain in control and lethal autonomous weapons must be banned. we must strengthen global governance in a domain where it is largely missing, and ensure diversity in those who create and develop new technology, so that we do not amplify inequalities. this call for global action is the foundation of the un roadmap for digital cooperation issued last year. dear members of the european parliament, the european union is the world’s prime proponent of a more open, inclusive and secure digital future for all, and of safeguarding human rights online. from cybersecurity governance and open data to net neutrality and the digitalisation of public services, the european union has demonstrated global leadership and set global standards. the international community has much to learn from the human-centric european approach to digital transformation, digital rights, consumer protection, privacy, and the ethical development of artificial intelligence. and we must close the digital divide and ensure that the 3.7 billion people currently excluded from the digital realm gain access as a matter of urgency. the aim is an open, free and secure digital future. senhoras deputadas e senhores deputados, as debilidades e constrangimentos que acabo de descrever não só se reforçam mutuamente, como se repercutem também nos domínios da paz e da segurança, agravando muitas das situações de conflito que o mundo conhece. a incerteza gerada pela pandemia é explorada por grupos extremistas que não hesitam em recorrer à violência. vários países deparam-se mesmo com um círculo vicioso: a conflitualidade gera pobreza e vulnerabilidades as quais, por sua vez, diminuem a resiliência das sociedades e as perspetivas de paz. as novas ameaças suscitadas pelo terrorismo global e regional interligam-se cada vez mais com as dinâmicas dos conflitos e, ao mesmo tempo, a persistência generalizada em vários pontos do globo da discriminação e violência baseadas no género constituem uma fonte de enorme sofrimento e o impedimento ao desenvolvimento harmonioso das sociedades. devemos continuar a prosseguir todas as vias diplomáticas suscetíveis de gerar soluções políticas para os conflitos, combatendo ao mesmo tempo as suas causas profundas. mas, tão ou mais importante que resolver conflitos é evitá—los. a prevenção tem de tornar-se a nossa primeira prioridade. devemos reforçar a nossa capacidade coletiva de antecipar, prevenir e enfrentar riscos e ameaças, mobilizando governos e a sociedade civil, e o vosso apoio às missões de acompanhamento e monitorização dos atos eleitorais constitui um exemplo de prevenção e mediação, nomeadamente em relação aos países vizinhos da união. señoras diputadas y señores diputados, los desafíos a la paz y a la seguridad a los que nos enfrentamos hoy en día serán probablemente aún más complejos en los próximos años. nuevas áreas de fractura y enfrentamientos geopolíticos se están desarrollando en el ámbito cibernético. todo ello requiere más cooperación internacional, no menos. pero necesitamos un enfoque renovado –más eficaz– de la gobernanza mundial y la cooperación internacional, basado en valores comunes y responsabilidades compartidas y con los derechos humanos en su centro. necesitamos un multilateralismo en red, que incluya a todas las organizaciones multilaterales, regionales y subregionales, a las instituciones financieras internacionales y a los bancos de desarrollo. y necesitamos un multilateralismo inclusivo, basado en una interacción profunda con la juventud, con las mujeres, el sector privado y el conjunto de la sociedad civil, las autoridades locales, las instituciones académicas y filantrópicas. y debemos aprender de las lecciones de la crisis actual y examinar los ámbitos en los que necesitamos una mayor y mejor gobernanza, como las vacunas y otros bienes públicos globales. dear members of parliament, the united nations and the european union have much in common. both organisations were built on shared principles and a strong commitment to the international rule of law, with the aim to prevent past tragedies and build a more peaceful and prosperous world. we both aspire to put human rights at the forefront of our efforts. last year, i launched the call to action for human rights, a comprehensive framework to advance our most important work, from sustainable development to climate action, from protecting fundamental freedoms to gender equality, the preservation of civic space and ensuring that digital technology is a force for good. since then, the ongoing global health crisis has highlighted the indivisibility and interconnectedness of the full spectrum of human rights: civil, political, cultural, economic and social. and it has shown how easily some hard-earned gains can be undone. using the pandemic as a pretext, some authorities around the world have deployed heavy-handed security responses and emergency measures to criminalise dissent and basic freedoms and subvert electoral processes. the pandemic has also exacerbated entrenched discrimination against women and girls. violence against women and girls in all forms has exploded, from domestic violence to online abuse, sexual exploitation and child marriage. i welcome your efforts to protect and promote human rights and the rule of law worldwide. but we must also protect vulnerable people within the eu’s borders. the rights of refugees and asylum-seekers are protected by international law, regardless of how they arrive in a country. as a fellow european and former head of government, i know that migrants and refugees are not a threat but a valuable contribution to our continent. as former un high commissioner for refugees, i have seen what it means to rebuild your life while finding the strength to enrich the lives of others. we must ensure the integrity of the international refugee protection regime. we must increase our support and solidarity with refugee-hosting countries. and we must pursue international cooperation among countries of origin, transit and destination to promote regular, safe and orderly pathways for migration. leaders in all sectors of society must invest in social cohesion, so that every community feels valued. dear members of the european parliament, the european union has brought decades of peace and prosperity and serves as an inspiration to the world. over the decades, it has become a vital partner for the united nations. today, as the world is facing unprecedented challenges and transformations, the european union must champion universal values and fundamental rights and help lead the way. and in a context of distrust between state and society, the role of the european parliament for building shared understandings is more crucial than ever. parliaments are the beating heart of democracy. you are the bridge between politics and people. your representation of your citizens – especially the most vulnerable – will be key to regain trust. and together, build a more sustainable, just and resilient future. thank you. (sustained applause)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by johan van overtveldt and henrike hahn, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the public sector lending facility under the just transition mechanism (com ((2020) 0453 - c9-0153/2020 - 2020/0100 ((cod)) (a9-0195/2020).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i would also like to thank my co-correspondent, henrike hahn, for her excellent cooperation. i am also very pleased with the agreement we have finally reached. the just transition mechanism shall be based on three pillars: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the transition plan. the commission will also assess the impact of the new financial instruments on the union's financial markets, in particular the impact of the new financial instruments on the union's financial markets, and the impact of the new financial instruments on the union's financial markets. this facility is a new one, designed to give public entities a boost when they want to take initiatives to make the green transition happen on the ground. the facility combines donations with loans. the grant component is, however, limited and is an incentive which in certain cases can be decisive in making a project feasible. in this respect, they will be different from those submitted to investeu, a more market-driven programme. but there are also similarities, since we also have a bottom-up approach to this facility where potential beneficiaries can get help and then apply for a project. the facility combines eur 1.5 billion from the eu budget with eur 10 billion in loans granted or to be granted by the eib. together with the eib, this facility is expected to generate between eur 25 and 30 billion in public investment over the next seven years. one of my major concerns throughout the procedure was the administrative hassle for applicants. i'm familiar with the principle that trust is good, but control is better. and i support that principle too, but good cooperation and good spending of the budget starts with trust anyway, especially in this case, where the beneficiaries are cities and municipalities, regions and public entities. i am therefore pleased that we have not burdened this new initiative with a lot of entry requirements and that we have been able to maintain the attractiveness that the commission had in mind in its proposal. so on the one hand there is funding, and on the other hand there is also advice with which we will support this facility. this is important to keep access low and to guarantee access for all. interested beneficiaries will be able to rely on the support and assistance of the commission and the eib at all stages of the life cycle of a project. the greatest contribution of the european parliament to the result achieved is undoubtedly the additional resources and possibilities now being provided for less developed regions. we are pleased that we have also been able to convince the commission and the council to make this facility more attractive and accessible to potential beneficiaries in these regions. it is based on three elements: 1) the maximum contribution to grants for the less developed regions is now set at 25% instead of the 20% originally envisaged. 2) in the event that the applications exceed the available resources, the commission will use criteria to make a selection. the agreement provides that in such cases priority is given to projects from the less developed areas. 3) a common concern is that in areas with low development, among others, there is a lack of administrative capacity. in order to remove any obstacles to participation, it was decided, at the instigation of parliament, to provide support at the stage before the actual project application and before the selection of projects. before i conclude, i would like to mention the financing of this initiative, because this too is something new. the bulk of the budget made available comes from resources falling back on existing financial instruments. since both the volume and timing of these backflows are fundamentally uncertain, parliament has insisted from the outset that there should be a guarantee that this facility will be adequately funded in all circumstances. this is of course important for the smooth running of the system and for the credibility of all those involved. i think this is a very valid concern, particularly in the current economic context. the commission and parliament have therefore drawn up a joint declaration guaranteeing the financing of this facility. in conclusion, i would like to wish all concerned success. the real work starts now. i wish the people of the commission and the eib much courage in developing a project pipeline, and i would like to warmly invite all potential beneficiaries to participate in this facility.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, it’s my pleasure to address you today on behalf of my fellow commissioner, ms ferreira. the public sector loan facility is the third pillar of the just transition mechanism. it is aimed at further increasing the firepower of member states to implement the massive just transition investments that are needed to address the challenges faced by the most affected regions. it completes a set of milestone proposals underpinning the european green deal. the just transition mechanism is an integral part of our commitment to making europe the world’s first climate-neutral continent, and it’s also our commitment to do this the european way, leaving no one behind. let me join commissioner ferreira in thanking the rapporteurs mr van overtveldt and ms hahn, as well as ms tinagli and the parliament negotiating team for their constructive negotiations. the parliament amendments have improved the initial proposal, especially in terms of strengthening the safety net for the most vulnerable regions, for example by increasing the maximum co-financing rate for the less-developed regions from 20 to 25%, by increasing technical assistance from eur 25 million to eur 35 million with a focus on project promoters and by introducing project award criteria which prioritise less-developed regions. like the just transition fund this third pillar also excludes fossil-fuel investments, placing climate neutrality efforts at the core of support. a set of horizontal principles was added, ensuring that european principles and values will be respected when implementing the facility. your vote today is crucial, first to complete all the pillars of the just transition mechanism and to show citizens that europe’s transition will happen in a way which protects people’s livelihoods in the regions where they live. second, this vote paves the way to launch the calls for projects before the end of the year once the territorial just transition plans are adopted. in doing so, we will live up to our commitments both to europe, as the world’s first carbon-neutral continent, and to our regions and citizens so that no one will be left behind. honourable members of the european parliament, with your crucial vote all pillars of the just transition mechanism will be enforced, demonstrating to eu citizens that the european union climate ambition should not be achieved at the expense of their jobs or at the cost of regional decline. your vote today paves the way for smooth implementation of the facility and contributes to member states’ plans towards a carbon-neutral europe. making this facility a success is certainly one of the best answers we can give to the challenges ahead of us. the commission is very committed to this objective and i know we can count also on you.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on regional development. (inaudible) public sector loans under the just transition mechanism mean european support to public authorities investing to make our towns, cities and regions cleaner and more inclusive at the same time. i am proud that my s&d group is working tirelessly to achieve a social europe in the green deal. the mechanism under discussion today will boost investment in social housing, smart mobility, circular economy solutions and sustainable waste management. we must not forget that our goals of cleaner air, plastic-free oceans and respect for biodiversity go hand in hand with a strong focus on the most vulnerable citizens and the most peripheral areas of the european union. this is what social and territorial cohesion means. this is the fair trade for all that we want to achieve.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you all for your support for the new cef regulation and the streamlining directive and for further pushing the deployment of the ertms on the european network. as i mentioned earlier, with the adoption of cef ii regulation, we will now finalise all preparatory steps with our agency cinea to be able to launch the first call for proposals in september. as regard ten-t, you know that we plan to come forward with a package on sustainable mobility in the autumn and that will also focus on the ten-t. the overarching goal of the revision of the ten-t regulation will be to contribute to the european green deal objectives and the realisation of the sustainable mobility strategy. indeed, since the adoption of the ten-t regulation in 2013, the policy context has changed substantially. the ongoing revision is thus the opportunity to modernise the legal framework and to step up our efforts in aligning the ten-t with the new priorities. as a result, the guiding principle of the revision is to complete the infrastructure backbone of the single european transport area and to make transport greener, more efficient and resilient. since there were some worries about the link between cef and the union’s climate objectives, let me say a few words on that. so again, the cef will contribute at least 60% of its funding to the climate objectives and thus support sustainable and green transition. in the transport part it is expected that at least 70% of the budget allocated to measures under the cef will contribute to climate objectives, in particular support of the construction and upgrade of railway infrastructure, including its electrification. focus on the alternative fuels infrastructure will be the backbone of the investments. specifically, we will set up an alternative fuel facility to dedicate more than eur 1 billion over three years to electricity and hydrogen recharging and refuelling stations. in addition, significant support will be provided to the inland waterways infrastructure, short sea shipping, telematic applications and multimodal transport. also to contribute to the climate objectives we will include synergies with the energy sector. for instance, the possibility to support the development of port capacities and facilities in relation with offshore wind farms. the support to grid connections in relation to electro mobility and onshore power supply, or the integration of onsite renewable energy generation in the supported projects. so these are just a few words to convince you that indeed cef and the union’s climate objectives are very much aligned. and just a small word on the gas worries you have. as regards the financing from cef energy, since 2014, cef energy has provided almost 65% of its total budget of eur 4.7 billion to electricity and smart grid projects, mirroring the increased focus on the electrification of our energy system. the pci status is a precondition for applying for cef under the ten-e window, but no guarantee for financing. and in its proposal for a revision of the ten-e regulation, the commission excludes natural gas infrastructure from the scope of ten-e and makes sustainability assessment of all projects mandatory, thus ensuring the full alignment of the ten-e policy with the european green deal objectives and climate neutrality. therefore, based on the commission proposal and if agreement with the co—legislators will be reached now, gas natural gas infrastructure would receive pci status under the six pci list, which is expected to be adopted in 2023. so these are some of the thoughts we, myself and colleagues, have as regards energy to align our investment with the objectives of our climate pact. in the end, i very much look forward to continuing our discussions on connecting europe and the ten-t revision and the interinstitutional debate that we will organise in september as part of our ten-t days meet european year of rail event. you are of course invited. thank you very much for the debate today and your support.
the joint debate is closed. i would like to inform you that neither a proposal to reject the council's position nor amendments under articles 67 and 68 of the crp were tabled in response to mr riquet's recommendation for second reading. the council's position is therefore approved and the proposed legislative act is therefore adopted. the votes on the recommendation for second reading by mrs virkkunen, mr marinescu and mr riquet and on the report by mrs bilbao barandica will take place today, tuesday 6 july 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – europe has ambitious plans for its energy and transport markets. we want to set the pace, achieving our cohesion, digital and environmental objectives. the new connecting europe facility for 2021-2027 will be an enabler, a driver of this revolution. the cef is one of the strongest tools we have to help us bring europe together, allowing us to achieve unity by ending transport and energy isolation. i here stress the paramount role cef funds have in connecting islands, including my country malta, to the continental platform. no one should ever pay the price of insularity. the eu must continue modernizing its cross-border infrastructure, with a particular focus on the rollout of 5g, which will be of paramount importance for the implementation of ai and new technologies. i am glad the new cef is accompanied by an agreement that will speed up ten-t project implementation by harmonising authorisation and public procurement procedures and simplifying the administrative processes. we need less red tape to conclude the ten-t networks as soon as possible. as we move forward in a sustainable manner, we must avoid at all costs energy and transport poverty. prices must remain affordable and never impact the everyday lives of citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have to get right back to my predecessor: mr. botenga, it wasn't the "big pharma industry" that developed the covid-19 vaccine here, it was a start-up. it was a 100-man operation. and this undertaking has, thank god, been supported by european funds. otherwise, if it were not for this support and these small and mediumsized start-ups, we would probably still be doing our parliamentary work from our offices upstairs, exclusively in the home office. so, just going after the pharmaceutical industry, that's a little too easy for you. of course, there is still room for improvement in european research policy. i am particularly interested in three subjects. firstly, hundreds of billions of euros are being poured into european research. but if we compare these sums with the investments in the united states and china, then we are still far behind in europe. i think it is important that we not only put public money into research, into innovation, but it is also important to create more incentives for private investment in research and development. secondly, we must make our firms and businesses even more closely linked to universities, higher education and research institutions. this is the only way we can create opportunities for our smes, for our start-ups, to grow into innovative business areas. thirdly, european research policy has a long history of success. i think we must tell this story to our citizens again and again. our citizens know about freedom of movement, they know about roaming, the abolition of roaming charges, the common market. but the success of joint research in europe is also a story worth telling.
mr president, i welcome the efforts to strengthen the european research area - an area that needs a new impetus for the challenges ahead. research and innovation are crucial to enhancing the union's competitiveness and sustainability and cannot be neglected. we must not forget that an innovative europe means more quality jobs, more smes to cope with the double transition and more resilience to future shocks. research on the continent offers great potential that we must exploit - as there is also an important opportunity for peripheral areas, including islands, to become 'testbeds' for innovative solutions to society's most pressing challenges. in this context we also want to ensure that no one is left behind - female researchers who still face obstacles in stem careers and those member states who are still struggling to increase their performance in this sector. a new european research area needs the contribution of everyone and to succeed and be successful we need the big to the small to be present and active.
at the risk of missing my flight today, i decided that it was more important to be here defending the rights and working conditions of workers working in the aviation sector, including the workers of the maltese national airline air malta. the aviation sector also has a human face and this is the face of the workers who during these last months have had to pay the highest price for the pandemic the highest price in the most historically difficult time in this sector. the negative impact of the pandemic has further added to the pressures already felt very strongly in this sector due to competitive market forces. although the commission has helped the sector, little has been done to help workers. today, the commission must take action to protect workers in the aviation sector and ensure that their basic rights are always safeguarded. commissioner, please take action today before tomorrow because tomorrow's ability is too late.
mr president, ireland being an island, is very dependent on, and indeed grateful to, our two main airlines – ryanair and aer lingus. indeed, as is the case across the eu, many jobs and livelihoods depend on them. therefore, the drop in air traffic by over 66% which we’ve experienced since the start of the pandemic must be met with a comprehensive action plan to help the aviation industry soar back into the skies once again. in light of these challenges, i welcome that the commission has put forward a number of emergency measures, such as rolling out the digital green certificate, decreasing slot usage thresholds for airlines and providing guidelines on covid—19 testing and quarantine for air passengers. the eu is listening to industry voices who are asking for greater understanding and support. moving forward from covid—19, it is important to remember that we can take positive steps to encourage investment in the green transition. we can increase the long—term resilience of the aviation industry by making firm level of support decisions contingent on environmental improvements. this will allow the eu to address the issue of sustainability along the whole aviation value chain, including among aircraft manufacturers and airports. the digital covid certificate is a welcome first step for the aviation industry, in what i hope will be a package of measures to continue to facilitate the exercise of free movement for all our citizens across the european union. the aviation industry can emerge, and must emerge, from the pandemic both cleaner, greener and stronger.
mr president, transport and tourism are key sectors for the european union's economy. the aviation sector is a major contributor to the recovery of businesses in all member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air transport and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air transport. the pandemic has affected air transport in the union countries in different ways. those companies with pre-covid-19 problems, with poor management, inefficient management had to be saved from bankruptcy. with them, the union has saved thousands of jobs affected by the travel restrictions. but our objective now is not just to rebuild the union's economy, but also to be resilient, to be better prepared for the next crisis. the commission has also concluded that the aid granted to ryanair and ams is compatible with the internal market. we need to help airlines overcome their structural problems. we need to work together better and provide predictable and uniform travel conditions. we need to reduce bureaucracy and expand the schengen area. we need to support fair competition, provide stable jobs and guarantee travellers' rights. we have a duty to take all these measures for the recovery of the aviation sector. i would appreciate the commission's position on this.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the aviation sector and its workers are looking to europe for help. europe must respond. covid-19 has created an unprecedented crisis which, if not addressed correctly, could lead to serious consequences: loss of connectivity, bankruptcy of regional airlines, financial difficulties for aviation-dependent companies, and higher costs for consumers. to avoid such consequences, the commission must continue its relaxed state aid rules and promote public—private financial assistance. however, this should come with a condition. even before covid, another crisis was plaguing this industry. increased competition led to a race to cut costs. the first to pay the price: workers. the result: among many, precarious atypical forms of employment. such practices, as will help the sector recover, we must make sure that they become history. the commission, the eu, must resolve the legal uncertainty surrounding contracts. we need to effectively apply the european pillar of social rights to aviation legislation. we need, once and for all, to stand with aviation workers and ensure their rights.
madam president, commissioner, for more than a decade we have seen the development of a new form of work which offers many economic opportunities for our companies, our entrepreneurs and our jobs. with the pandemic that we've just been through, these digital jobs have taken a whole new dimension. the platform workers have thus helped to save some restaurants by allowing them to continue operating at a minimum during these months of health crisis. these men and women, whose profiles are sometimes very different, sometimes find themselves in difficult working conditions and it is our role to protect them, to ensure that they have access to the appropriate legal status and the rights that flow from it, just as it is our responsibility to ensure fair competition for our entrepreneurs vis-à-vis the platforms. the report by parliament expresses here the need to protect workers on the platforms, particularly considering that they are by default employees. in practice, in the event of a dispute, it will therefore be up to the platform to prove that the worker is self-employed if it considers that to be the case. this mechanism would thus address existing skills problems, while leaving flexibility for platforms employing genuine selfemployed workers. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which protects workers and leaves the possibility of economic opportunities.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i have the impression that we are still talking about working through online platforms as something new, when in fact it has been with us for a long time and every tenth citizen of the european union has already had this experience. it is also expected that its popularity will only grow as platforms offer many opportunities for business development and are valued by consumers. the covid-19 pandemic has also shown that this rather flexible form of employment has worked well in difficult times and has allowed many workers to keep or find new employment. however, there is still a lack of legal clarity on the status of platform workers, which may pose a threat to their social protection, employment security and predictability. i am therefore glad that the commission has announced a communication on this matter and that our report and today's debate are timely. first of all, i believe that platform work is not a single concept and currently includes both de facto service providers who are in a contract of employment and self-employed people who wish to remain so. any new rules must therefore take account of this specificity and provide for the necessary flexibility. that is why i support the provisions negotiated in the report. in the event of a dispute between an employee and an employer, the burden of proof of employment status will be on the employer. in the second case, maintaining the status of employed person for the person who prefers this form of work.
president, commissioner, two happy events have taken place in the netherlands today. first, in two weeks, all covid-19 restrictions will be lifted as more than 80 percent of the population has been vaccinated. secondly, the amsterdam district court has ruled that uber drivers should be considered as employees and not as self-employed. we're talking today about the social conditions of workers in platform services. the economic developments of today are clearly at odds with european civilization. the standards and values that we have built in europe are being transformed into modern slavery. something has to be done. it may be worth considering a more modern form of social security, since these workers clearly need flexibility on the one hand and security and insurance on the other. for example, the proposal could focus on a hybrid approach with a base that provides certainty in the old system and the other half or 25% of which forms a flexible system that offers more choices to the worker. this problem seems to be present in almost every member state. so perhaps you can come up with a proposal for a regulation which regulates the protection of workers throughout europe and not just in each member state. we are talking about european standards and values.
the covid-19 pandemic, of course, has brought a further update to the topic of platform work, a new form of employment linked to digital development. we are witnessing, of course, the digital transformation of work and society, and we are all aware of that. i agree, there needs to be more detailed regulation of platform work to ensure workers have fair working conditions, rights and, of course, social protection. platform work is on the rise, with 60% of eu residents saying they will not give up using online services even after the coronavirus crisis. however, there is some legal uncertainty as those who work via a platform in different member states or combine a regular employment relationship with work via a platform are often subject to entirely different rules for the same work. such legal uncertainty should, of course, be addressed with due respect for the principle of subsidiarity and the different approaches of the member states. i share your concern about the regulation of algorithms. the importance of digital competences needs to be emphasised. in this context, i welcome public investment in vocational education and lifelong learning, which is crucial to prepare workers for the digital age. according to eurofound data, 10.7% of the population in croatia, the country i come from, or 440 thousand inhabitants, met work through the platform. also, since croatia is a tourist country, i advocate for special protection of workers through platforms in the tourism and transport sector. the traditional organization of work has changed radically. the future of the working class depends on us, and that's why i agree that we need to think about it extra carefully.
platforms for the collaborative economy have now become an integral part of our lives, and this is creating new challenges - challenges for industrial relations, challenges for social security, challenges for the regulatory framework of our member states. the precariousness faced by platform workers is a real challenge and with the covid pandemic continues to expose a number of vulnerabilities that these workers have already been facing in the past: false self-employment, lack of working conditions, low or fragmented income, health and safety risks, insufficient social protection, unclear employment status. the commission's promise to introduce enforcement measures to ensure labour market integration and eliminate inequalities in the platform economy sector is therefore a project that we have been waiting for far too long. what is illegal on an offline basis should equally be considered illegal on an online basis, and this is a principle that i agree with one hundred percent. digital workers should enjoy the same rights and treatment as other workers. digital platforms should not continue to take advantage of legal uncertainties in order to abuse the fundamental rights that every worker should enjoy.
mr president, major fires affecting the mediterranean countries, floods in northern europe and extremely high temperatures have been recorded in recent months. what happened this summer is the latest crystal clear example that we are already behind in our fight against climate change. there is no doubt about it, we must act now and the environmental measures included in the 'fit for 55' package are setting an ambitious horizon. however, as a person who cares about european social rights, i cannot help repeating: let us not abandon the most vulnerable citizens who are already finding it difficult to come up with electricity and water bills or to travel. let us not increase the disparity between urban and rural areas and the periphery of the union, i.e. those areas where connectivity is already a challenge. we all know that this transition will not be easy but let us also make sure that it is a fair one. only with a strong public consensus can we succeed in this respect.
mr president, i have always found the brexit adaptation reserve to be a useful instrument to support the fisheries sector. however, the final result seems to me disappointing, at least from the fisheries perspective as far as my country, spain, is concerned. the criteria for allocating the 600 million from the reserve to the fisheries sector are inadequate. i regret that the amendments adopted by the committee on fisheries of this house, which proposed a more equitable distribution key than the so-called 'dependence criterion', were ignored. spain, which has the largest fleet in the european union, will receive only 0.6% of the funds allocated to fisheries, out of the 600 million for fisheries. nor has it been taken into account that, because of brexit, the svalbard cod quota for the european union has been cut very much and that this is particularly damaging to the spanish fleet. the commission also called for more money and more time: to extend the reserve until july 2026 and also to make use of the unspent funds from the former european maritime and fisheries fund. these demands have not been included in the final text of the regulation either, which, as i said, is very insufficient as far as spain is concerned.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, five years after the naïve british referendum, we are still debating brexit. and rightly so. the impact of the divorce is unimaginable. trade between the european union and the united kingdom has been hit hard, especially in those countries which are particularly dependent on trade with the united kingdom. think of my own country, belgium. think of my own region, west flanders. the export of european agri-food products has fallen by 6%, with pork, vegetables and fruit the main victims. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. but flemish fishermen are also very much affected by brexit. the british waters are the most important for their fishing, but access to them is no longer guaranteed in the long term. that is why i am very pleased that, under the impetus of my good colleague pascal arimont, a clear message has been sent to the fisheries sector. in flanders, this amounts to eur 27 million for fisheries. let us be vigilant in the months ahead and not make things worse for the fishermen than they already are.
member of the commission. – mr president, today we send a strong signal of solidarity, a message to everybody who is suffering because of brexit. we didn’t want brexit, but it happened. it’s there. and the message ‘europe stands with you’ is the main outcome of this discussion and of this initiative. so, my sincere thanks to everybody who has contributed to this success and, in fact, it is true that the european parliament improved the quality of the text. i would also like to thank all those who participated in this debate. it is my obligation, but it is with a lot of pleasure that i have taken note of your concerns –in particular that we concentrate this support in the communities that were most affected, be it the fishers, be it other communities, and the flexibility of the instrument allows for this. it is also important – as everyone has mentioned – that we speed up procedures. now we are ready. there are formalities to translate the text, and so on. but in the meantime, we are already working with member states in order to help them to prepare the projects using the full flexibility available. it is important that member states identify the management and control systems and authorities. for the commission’s part, i can promise you that we’ll do our utmost to help you and to help the member states to make the best of this instrument, so that the purpose for which the instrument was created really is implemented and felt by citizens as soon as possible. and we hope that we have created the conditions for the first transfers to be done this year. i am sorry to insist, but i think it’s important that we all together also address something on which parliament is very vocal. this is the approach to the control systems, to data-mining, to help to prevent fraud, irregularities, conflicts of interest – not only in this instrument but in all the instruments that we have in our hands and on which we have to present accountability to you, parliament, and also to the citizens. but, for the time being, and this is my conclusion for today, i think we can all be proud of what we have achieved. thank you for the comments that some of you have made. it is true that the presidency was also very helpful. in all the possible languages, we are saying we have an instrument of solidarity and we have got to make the best possible use of it. we are proud, together, of what we have achieved. let’s keep you updated on the progress of implementation and let’s make this instrument reach the target and the target is to rebuild the confidence, the trust and the life of our citizens, in particular those affected by brexit. so thank you very much to all of you once again.
in writing. – i welcome the agreement between the european parliament and the council on the brexit adjustment reserve. we have worked extensively on this important dossier in the committee for regional development in the past months and i am glad that the eu countries, which have been heavily affected by the exit of the uk from our union will soon count on financial support to face the most urgent needs. alleviating the consequences of brexit is, first and foremost, a matter of social and territorial cohesion. it is about supporting smes and jobs in the most affected sectors and regions. data shows that malta is one of the european countries with the deepest economic and trade relations with the united kingdom. i welcome the circa eur 40 million allocation my country will benefit from. i hope that there will be further support should the long-term effects of brexit – from those impacting healthcare to those related to logistics – will be more severe than expected.
i will now move to today’s first voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the first voting session will be open from 13.00 until 14.15 and the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare therefore the voting sessions open and you have until 14.15 to vote. the results of the first voting sessions will be announced at 19.00 this evening.
in relation to the decisions by the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, first we went to rule 71(1), as announced at the opening of the session on monday, 13 september. the president has received no requests for a vote in parliament by members or political groups meeting at least the medium threshold. the committees may therefore start the negotiations.
we now continue with the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the state of the union (2021/2763(rsp)).
madam president, madam president of the european commission, i fully embrace the european vision and i defend european principles and values vigorously and consistently, because i firmly believe that the european union is the strongest future and the best prospect for european citizens. i also believe that the greatest achievement of mankind in the last 70 years has been the creation and existence of the european union. i cannot imagine how we could successfully manage the pandemic crisis, climate change and other challenges without the european union. i am thinking also of the development fund, this powerful weapon which has brought relief to the peoples of the european union and given prospects for prosperity, growth and jobs. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe that can be built on the foundations of the european union, and it is a europe that is not only a european union but also a european union of the people. but there is no such thing as a strong and credible european union when two european union member countries, greece and cyprus, are faced daily with threats, challenges and violations of their sovereign rights by turkey and when the european union, instead of responding forcefully, continues to finance turkey and calls it a strategic partner. i believe that the time has come for the european union to declare that the sovereign rights of its member states and of itself are non-negotiable. it is time to say that the european union is not being blackmailed or threatened by any turkey or anyone. madam president of the european commission, i fully endorse and agree with your view that human rights are non-negotiable and not for sale. but i wonder how my basic human right to return to my native land, to return to the house where i was born, along with 200,000 other greek cypriot refugees, has been defended and protected by the european union? we are rightly defending human rights all over the planet. but it is time to respond to the european citizens and to show that we are also defending their human rights. the time has finally come to create the europe we want. the european union must be able to take on the challenges of the present and to take on the challenges of the future.
dear chairman, dear chairwoman, in the time since your speech last year, life-saving vaccines have been developed, a multi-year financial framework and a recovery fund have been agreed, and we are seeing better economic indicators. today i would like to mention three themes that i believe are important for europe but also for croatia. unfortunately, croatia was hit by a strong earthquake last year. the damage is extensive and the recovery is slow. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the recovery plan. you say we must remove the barriers between us. so this is about schengen. i call on you, in line with previous conclusions of the commission and parliament, to support croatia's entry into schengen, which would greatly facilitate the lives of our citizens and enhance economic cooperation. i would also mention the enlargement policy. it's a pity you didn't give more space to the process in your speech. you said we share the same history and the same destiny with the western balkans. that's why we have to keep our promises, show credibility and remove the damaging blockages.
mr president, if you had told us one year ago, ms von der leyen, during your state of the union 2020, that, when you stood before us again, 70 per cent of the eu population would have been vaccinated, who would have believed you? it is a tremendous success of the eu and one that makes it very clear that we need the health union more than ever. but while the eu’s capacity to protect its citizens from future and current pandemics is slowly coming of age, our weltpolitik, as jean-claude juncker used to call it, still remains stuck in infancy. all too often, the eu’s voice comes late and is not credible without the capacity to back our own commitments, as we have seen very clearly in the evacuation of our citizens from the airport in kabul. to become credible, with open strategic autonomy, we must give ourselves the means to enforce our rules for all players in our single market, european or not. for example, with the tool to combat distortive foreign subsidies in the single market and the tool to demand reciprocity, such as in public procurement. these are the conditions necessary to guarantee that our openness remains a strength rather than weakness. finally, mr president, we need a fully-fledged china task force to finally, once and for all, be able to speak with one voice towards china. finally as well, thank you for the import ban on forced-labour goods.
madam president, i congratulate you on learning your lesson. the solidarity response to this crisis has made the difference compared to the previous crisis. it was therefore right to propose the continuation of a path of solidarity, a path, to use his happy expression, 'to give soul to the union', by launching the health union, the union for technological leadership in chips and other strategic areas, the union for social and fiscal justice, the union for the sustainability of the planet and the dignity of people, the union for youth, the union for security and common defence, the union for connectivity and fair trade, the union for gender equality and against violence, the union against energy poverty. i hope, therefore, madam president, that you have also learned from the lessons of the past in the new model of governance you have announced to us. it must be effective in its implementation, it must be solidary, collaborative, convergent and without budgetary restrictions, because budgetary restrictions will bring back the specter of impoverishment, unemployment and injustice among the peoples.
mr president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make two comments on the state of the union: firstly, on the management of the corona crisis and what the european union has done in this difficult, challenging time. i think it went quite well, madam president. you have addressed the youth in your speech, and i think that is great. and i think that's really good, because i think we've talked a lot less about young people, especially in this pandemic, about what we've asked of them in this time. i think it is good that the alma programme has been launched, that we are investing in the education, training, further training and further training of our young people and that we are doing everything possible to enable the exchange and encounters of our young people in the european union. the second point i would like to make is the geopolitical role of the european union, the european commission. this was also one of your key concerns, madam president, when you took over as president of the commission, and you mentioned afghanistan, for example. i ask: if not now, when should we strengthen the european pillar in nato? if not now, when should we develop and build the common foreign and security policy? we are called. and it's really important to put all the political will and all the power into this if we want to be taken seriously globally in the world, and not just as a strong economic power. if we're serious about our own safety, we're gonna have to step up. and that is our big task, also in the next two and a half years, to really move forward here and give our citizens the security that they deserve.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the state of the union, we must really know and understand the state of european citizens. the pandemic, deepening inequalities, declining living standards and rising energy prices are making life increasingly difficult for many citizens. unfortunately, political instability and weak governance, as is the case in romania, a country you ignored in your speech, requires concrete and prompt action. this is why the european union needs to get involved in new areas. in this context, education must become a priority. all european citizens must be able to learn under decent and quality conditions. no child or young person can be left behind. in the context of your wish to focus on the future of europe, i ask for your support in building a europe of education. an educated europe means a stronger europe, able to respond to new challenges and project itself as a world leader. i propose that we organize a global summit on education, where we focus on increasing investment in education. i count on your support in putting education at the top of the european agenda.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you began your mandate with the aim of leading a global commission, a commission that is up to date and whose main task is to ensure that we manage the major challenges, with a key role to play, with the european union at the helm. i think that claim is still valid and it needs to be pursued. but we must now ask ourselves critically how far this project has come. and this is the debate of the day. covid-19 -- yes, we've gotten better internally, but there's mass death on this planet. i'm not saying we can do this alone. but we need to lead the coalition that solves this problem, that defeats the virus. tax policy the unique opportunity to put an end to tax evasion and tax havens once and for all. but then we have to do our part and the member states must not block. serious words must be spoken. and our values? you speak of dialogue. the steps taken in poland are correct, but when will the patience with mr orbán end and when will the appropriate measures be taken there too?
mr president, madam president, i take all the comments made by our spokesman for the social democratic family in this house as my own, but i also share two points with you: you have urged the european parliament to legislate as soon as possible on the new pact on migration and asylum. it will only be 'effective' when the european parliament endorses it, and that will only happen when binding and effective solidarity is guaranteed with migrants and asylum seekers, who cannot be kept in a limbo without rights for an indefinite period in the states which have external borders of the union, whether in the east, in the atlantic or in the mediterranean. and this parliament has always done its job: it is the council that has blocked the asylum system, proposed by the commission in 2016! it therefore exercises its leadership so that it is the council that moves forward. rule of law! you said that the law and the judgments of the court of justice must be respected. i totally agree. but we remind you that you have not mentioned hungary and poland by name under the article 7 procedure, precisely because they are both in prison, and we say that we are prepared to use article 265 of the treaty to ensure that, by way of appeal ... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
mr president, i am proud to be able to put forward in this debate the perspective of islands such as malta and gozo, which, despite being far from the centre, are european. and they can be a bridge not only between the european union and the mediterranean countries but also beyond cooperation which is essential. the emphasis on social justice and work-life balance you are right madam president, the pandemic has taught us how precious time is. a europe that truly respects social rights, brings equality among citizens and in the various regions of the member states. we must ensure a prosperous future for our young people. the european year dedicated to youth and the special programme for the unskilled are important in this respect because everyone deserves to experience the european opportunities. i would like to conclude by welcoming the fact that the commission has recognised malta's work to strengthen the rule of law. together let us continue to work to strengthen journalistic protection and the rights and future of us all.
mr president, the destruction of biodiversity and climate change are real challenges we are facing every day. the majority of biodiversity loss is occurring in developing third countries and this is also having a direct impact on biodiversity in our member states, especially also where bird migration is concerned. it is therefore pointless for the european commission to continue to restrict only sustainable hunting and fishing practices in our member states and then ignore the slaughter going on in our neighbouring third countries. the destruction of biodiversity and ecosystems is also holding us back from making progress towards the ambitious sdg targets. there is therefore a need to address the real cause of biodiversity loss and redouble our work in these areas. first and foremost; increase funds and investments. there also needs to be a holistic plan where due diligence is involved in the conservation and sustainable use of resources of the rehabilitation of our ecosystems. and there should also be more adequate communication with the local communities of the same third countries. losing biodiversity will mean losing an important ally in the fight against climate change and in the challenge to eradicate poverty once and for all.
commissioner, mr president, i have to ask you to stop. domestic violence, psychological violence, physical violence, sexual violence is an absolute evil. last year, poland passed an anti-violence law that requires the perpetrator to be isolated from the victim and to leave the apartment immediately. i think it's important that we share good practices. i think it is very important that we respect the law and take into account what competences are in the hands of the member states and what are in the hands of the eu institutions. if we are to talk about violence, and the need to protect children from violence is so often emphasized here, i would once again appeal to you to stop being hypocritical and to pay attention to the great problem that still exists in the european union, namely adult marriage with children. it's time to stop this barbarism in the 21st century. it's time to end this. i would ask the commissioner to look into this matter.
member of the commission. – mr president, europe is a frontrunner when it comes to measures to tackle violence against women. our upcoming proposals ensure the best added value at eu level to the actions already taken by member states. it will strengthen other ongoing initiatives, such as the work on the digital services act, with regard to gender-based cyber violence. it will also provide a solid basis for further work foreseen in the gender equality strategy, such as the prevention network and the cooperation with online platforms. in this way, we will ensure the complementarity of the proposed initiatives with other measures, through early education, awareness raising and combating gender stereotypes, to achieve a zero tolerance to violence approach. women and children have the right to live free from violence, and they deserve a strong legal framework to protect them. ensuring that sufficient protection and support is available can make a real difference for the lives of millions of victims. europe should remain the global champion, tackling gender-based violence and the guardian of women’s and children’s rights.
and with these speeches by our rapporteurs, this debate is closed. the vote on this report on domestic violence will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – it is strongly deplorable that in 2021 gender-based violence is still a plague spreading in our union. the pandemic has made this phenomenon even worse, with a sharp surge in cases of domestic violence. we cannot overlook that, very often, the intimate partner is responsible for this violence, with strong repercussions on other members of the family, particularly children. condemning such violence is however not enough: the european union as well as all its member states must ratify the istanbul convention as soon as possible. more concretely, adding gender-based violence to the list of areas of crimes under article 83(1) tfeu and considering intimate partner violence in custody rights and visitation decisions are among those actions which are essential. i want a european union that provides adequate emergency accommodation and shelter, as well as financial and legal aid and psychological support: victims of intimate partner violence cannot be left alone; they must not be left behind.
the next item is the report by mr agius saliba - protection of persons with disabilities through petitions: lessons learned (2020/2209 (ini)) (a9-0261/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, on wednesday we will be voting on my report on the protection of persons with disabilities through petitions – lessons learnt. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues and shadows for their important input in this report. there was a high degree of cooperation across all the political groups within the european parliament. i would also like to thank inclusion europe and also autism europe for providing us with an easy—to—read part of my report in order to make this report accessible to all persons with disabilities. heartfelt thanks to you. approximately, there are 87 million persons with disabilities throughout our union. their situation may vary considerably from one member state to another, but they are generally more likely to be exposed to social exclusion, more likely to be exposed to poverty, and it is more likely they are exposed to unemployment. despite all our common agreed values and also our treaties, people with disabilities continue to face multiple obstacles and discrimination, in their everyday lives, which prevent them from basically enjoying their most fundamental freedoms and rights as laid down in applicable eu law and also in un legislative frameworks. one of these is the mutual recognition of disability status between eu member states, the lack of which tremendously hinders freedom of movement within the eu for persons with disabilities. moreover, access to public transport, physical, sensory and cognitive accessibility of the built environment, goods, services and programmes, use of sign languages and all other means and types of accessible communication and information, financing of – and equal access to – education and also vocational training, access to the labour market, access to personal assistance schemes, community inclusion, equality in opportunity and treatment in employment and also in other occupations. let me stress that here the committee on petitions plays a very crucial role as a bridge between the eu citizens, parliament and other eu institutions, and also has an important instrument for getting our citizens involved in a more active way in participatory democracy. the right to petition parliament is one of the most fundamental rights of every eu citizen. however, persons with disabilities are still facing enormous obstacles in exercising this right to petition. that is why it is important for the european parliament to first of all ensure that its website is accessible for persons with disabilities, in line with the ‘leading by example’ policy. moreover, it should allow the tabling of petitions in both international and national sign languages used in the eu, thus making the right to petition more accessible for sign language users. over the years, the committee on petitions has received many important petitions on the protection of persons with disabilities in the eu. citizens regularly get in touch to express their concerns on accessibility, social protection and also employment rights. my report highlights these examined petitions, in which our citizens have raised issues on accessibility and social protection, mutual recognition of disability status in the member states, as well as inclusive education and employment rights. in the received petitions, the petitioners raise issues of obstacles that persons with disabilities face in various fields, such as access to public transport, the built environment, use of sign languages, financing of – and access to – education and also vocational training. this is a strong message for europe to act. the report is also very timely, taking into account the recent launch of the new disability strategy 2021—2030 by the european commission. the new strategy aims to improve the lives of persons with disabilities in a barrier—free europe and to protect the social and also economic inclusion and participation of persons with disabilities in our society, free from discrimination, in full respect of their rights and on an equal basis with all other citizens. it is also important to mention the commissioner for equality, helena dalli, who played a significant instrumental role in establishing this new strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities. currently there is still no mutual recognition of disability status between eu member states, which is still creating an obstacle for persons with disabilities when moving from one member state to another to work, for studies or for any other reason. the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities is basically proposing an eu—wide disability card. the european disability card, i must say, will be a very important instrument to help persons with disabilities to exercise their right of freedom of movement, and therefore i have stressed in my report that the european disability card should become mandatory in each and every member state. the report also focuses on a number of barriers that children with disabilities encounter when it comes to inclusive education, especially children with intellectual disabilities, where such children with autism or children with hearing loss are still facing many obstacles when it comes to fulfilling their educational path. i believe that the european commission should continue to strengthen the role of the child guarantee in ensuring inclusion of children with disabilities and also that member states should increase their educational systems’ capacity to provide high—quality, inclusive education for all learners. last but not least, i stress in my report also the important role of focal points in the eu, in all institutions, in all agencies, including in parliament and in the council, with the central focal point being within the commission’s secretariat—general, which would be supported by an appropriate interinstitutional mechanism. the report highlights the importance of prioritising the appointment of persons with disabilities to the role of disability coordinators.
madam president, since the summer we have seen several positive signs for the tourism sector - air travel has increased and eu digital certificates have undoubtedly played a role in this. businesses have adapted and even continued to make important investments, also in compliance with established hygiene protocols. eu and national government financial support measures have helped smes to keep going through the winter and plan for the summer. however, we should not take any other impression despite these positive signs. several problems remain and the sector has yet to recover. even in a scenario where we do not return to travel restrictions, european tourism will still need continued support. now is the time to defend our businesses and smes and extend funding schemes. i also ask the commission to assess whether and how eu funds are reaching smes - are microenterprises being included that are less connected, politically and digitally, and are already facing challenges due to insularity? the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). the commission together with the member states shall act swiftly to find a solution. i would like to conclude by calling on the european platform for tourism employment to match employers and employees to ensure higher quality employment. together with the tourism task force we will continue to work in the sector.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is an extremely important debate we are having tonight and i would like to thank the inge committee for bringing this matter back to the house. because we are in a situation where we have to do something to regulate the social platforms. but let me start somewhere else, because remember when we used to call social media "our virtual meeting rooms"? we hoped that they would help to strengthen the democratic dialogue and bring citizens closer to the decision-makers. you could say that digital has made us more connected. more information is available. we can also discuss more with each other. that's good enough. but it's also as if the digital world creates a kind of distance, where you very quickly forget that it's a real person you're writing to. it creates a harsh tone among many people and prevents many people from wanting to participate in the democratic debate. at the same time, misinformation and disinformation spread like milkweed seeds in the summer wind. algorithms help to spread this, because conflict creates clicks, and the algorithms interpret clicks as interest. and by the way, they're gonna be sending the story out to even more people. why do they do that? because it's big business. there's so much money in this for the platforms that they're not interested in doing enough. we heard this the other day from a facebook whistleblower, and we also saw the consequences of this kind of misinformation and disinformation on january 6 in washington. we're gonna have to do something more. and yes, fortunately we have some legislation we're working on. i'm with the digital services act. we can do something here, but it is not enough, and i am not sure that what we have in it is really good enough. we also need to use this bill to tighten up the rules tremendously. we need to hold these platforms accountable. we cannot accept that they run their own race. so thank you for the debate. i hope that we will make a joint effort to resolve this, because we must - for the sake of democracy.
madam president, disinformation is mainly spread through social networks. it is a fact and it is also a threat to our democracies. practices such as hidden foreign funding and other online interference are also a fact, except for the representatives of the far left and the far right in this house, we heard them again tonight. moreover, the platforms themselves seem to always choose to protect their own interests over the public interest. always protecting their income over democracy. we must therefore stop turning a blind eye to the risks of deviation from these platforms. they are well aware of the problem, but they simply refuse to solve it. they have the means to reduce the spread of disinformation, but they use them very little, because they put growth before security - you have rightly said that tonight, commissioner. self-regulation, voluntary measures and unilateral strategies have all shown their limits. we need a regulation with effective instruments to ensure greater transparency and deterrent sanctions. regulations are needed to tackle disinformation effectively, regardless of the language in which it is disseminated. we need to increase our efforts to develop digital education and independent media and thus enable our citizens to have a better capacity for discernment. in this respect, the digital services legislation has great potential. it can be a new model for the rest of the world and must become the spearhead in the fight against disinformation.
madam chair, colleagues, social media is a battlefield and disinformation is a weapon in this war. it's nice that you finally get that fact, and again, like everything here, it's half-hearted and doesn't say everything that needs to be said. an entire government, that of north macedonia, is waging a war of disinformation against its citizens, against the people in this country who have bulgarian roots and bulgarian origin. he's been falsifying history, replacing, replacing monuments, replacing tombstones, waging full-scale war. but here, it is neither heard nor seen and some of you pretend to have heard, seen or smelled onions, as the wise bulgarian people said, and then someone complains that there was misinformation. there is, yes, and it is state sponsored and state organized by such states, with the help of their assistants belgrade, kremlin, whoever you want. that's the real disinformation that you don't see or hear here. on the other hand, i hear you want regulations. that's great, but by regulations you mean silencing any voice that is in defense of national values, national self-determination, national self-consciousness, of the traditional family. this is what you call fighting misinformation. as long as that is the case, as long as there is this double standard, you will lose this war, waged by forces much stronger than us, hostile to us.
madam chairman, everyone is entitled to their own opinion, but no one is entitled to their own facts, their own facts. freedom of expression does not mean allowing the coordinated actions of thousands of anonymous accounts or troll factories coordinated by third countries to influence our democratic processes or polarize our societies. whether we like it or not, big social media has become the dominant arena for public debate. it's terrifying to see how supposedly educated people, politicians, quote what they read on the internet and quote conspiracy theories and fake news and try to change public opinion. online platforms should be required to have algorithmic transparency with regard to content moderation. why is one publication removed and another not? but also transparency in terms of resources for fact-checking and countering disinformation. small language markets, such as bulgarian, should not be ignored because of the lack of commercial viability for companies and become easy prey for third countries such as china, russia and others. this also happens with the secret funding of organizations and political parties in my country, against bulgaria russia finances enough of them. what is needed, commissioner, you said it yourself: upbringing, critical thinking, education, media literacy. and this should start at school.
today we live in a world where digital platforms have become the battleground for our democracies. we have experienced the negative effects that anti-democratic forces have left on our democracies following attacks of disinformation. social platforms are built on their own to maximise the attention and time spent by their users. unfortunately, what keeps us stuck on the same platforms is often fake, shocking or sensational content. democracies are built on the assumption that citizens have access to truthful, trustworthy information in order to participate fully in civic and governmental decision-making. unfortunately, the economic model of platforms is having a negative impact on our societies where outdated information is used as a technological weapon against democracies, threatening our governance models. we can do much to overcome these challenges. the first thing we need to do is to get used to the advertising model as the main economic source from which these platforms are living. a source that is preying on exploitation and intrusion into our private lives.
78% of european citizens and 86% of maltese citizens consider climate change to be a very serious problem. these are figures from the latest eurobarometer survey. however, we cannot take the strong public consensus to achieve climate neutrality as a mandate to settle our heads. the 'fit for 55' package, while ambitious, will not be enough if the transition does not incorporate a truly social dimension. we cannot ignore the fact that the road to a cleaner europe will cost a lot of money but we cannot accept that those who are most vulnerable pay the bill and the price. no, you won't! those in social housing, rural and island communities, our small businesses, to name just a few examples, need us to make our continent carbon neutral. they are also crucial for things to really change in practice. it is true that a sharp increase in energy prices is caused by several factors, including our dependence on suppliers from outside the european union. however, it is a call for us to show more unity, more pragmatism and, last but not least, more solidarity, which is just as important.
mr president, colleagues, the pandemic has made it extremely difficult for those working in the field of culture and creativity concert halls have been closed, festivals, exhibitions, performances have been cancelled. this has created uncertainty about the future prospects of those who wish to work in this field, and we must not allow this. artists are extremely important to our societies because they help to strengthen european diversity, they help us to build our value system and we know our history, they influence our way of life. just imagine, colleagues, if during the lockdown, when we were confined to our homes, how we would spend our time, if there were no movies, if there was no music, if there was no all this created by the people of art. but at the same time, many of these artists have lost their regular income, and some have lost their income altogether. it's very important that artists have access to social benefits and adequate social protection: unemployment, pensions, health care. i strongly support the call in the committee's report the commission and the member states to include culture in the national recovery and resilience plans and to allocate at least 2% of the budgetary envelope to the recovery and resilience mechanism. member states have a duty to support this sector, which is the slowest to recover from the pandemic, and to ensure that no creator or worker in the field of culture is left behind.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the cultural diversity of europe is invaluable. it strengthens our social cohesion, it improves our quality of life, it strengthens our democracy and, last but not least, it is of enormous economic importance. most of the nearly nine million jobs in the cultural sector are either self-employed or part-time, resulting in mostly extremely precarious income situations for artists, which have been exacerbated by the pandemic. this shows very clearly that we must give this sector special attention in order to help it through the crisis which is still ongoing. but above all, we must provide cultural producers and institutions with a better social and economic foundation in the long term. it is about providing cultural workers in all employment relationships with a good income and a social safety net that really deserves the name especially for young artists. it was also important that the european parliament had called for 2% of the cultural and creative sectors development fund at a very early stage. the member states have unfortunately not done enough to implement this. it is also good that we have been able to achieve a large budget increase for the creative europe programme, but unfortunately in the end it is just a drop in the bucket. but in the medium to long term, we must do more. i'm glad that the report addresses the dominant role of big music streaming companies, whose unfair practices in remuneration and referral systems leave young and small artists with little breathing room, and other issues are also addressed. i think we have made a good report here. i thank you all, and i hope that now the words will actually be followed by deeds.
mr. president, i have to ask you... covid-19 has affected the cultural and creative sectors and directly the artists. the cultural and creative sectors are an important part of the economy and, despite the digital solutions provided, the industry needs significant support. in order to mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic and to restart the sector, the hungarian government has established priority sector-specific grants in the form of non-repayable subsidies to support service providers and artists. in hungary, smes in the cultural and creative sectors have received significant support to help maintain jobs. the government has provided more than huf 14 billion to help the cultural sector and significant regulation has been put in place to preserve jobs. it is important that the eu also extends the scope for supporting the cultural and audiovisual sectors through programmes such as creative europe and erasmus+. we also ask the commission to support each member state in its efforts to tackle subsidies most effectively at national level. it is not a question of devolution, but of supporting the recovery of the member states.
mr president, art is at the heart of european values, our civilisation, our ability to understand the world, to create well-being and to innovate and create prosperous economies. that’s why i think that this is the right time to discuss what should be the eu’s role in culture and cultural policies. and yes, i am supportive of the proposals that we should indeed have a stronger role. i would like to thank the commission for putting effort into finding the funds for culture and art in one place in the future. that and the two per cent of the rrf is a good start, but i wish that we could go further in the amount. i would double it in the longer term. secondly, i would just like to propose to all of us, and to the commission, why wouldn’t we make an experiment of basic income and start with the artists in trouble in troubling times? i think that a couple of million would go very far in this kind of an endeavour.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking all the speakers for their commitment to cultural circles. i think this report comes at the right time. many creators are still suffering from the effects of the crisis. a number of proposals have just been made. we must bear in mind that the european union cannot do everything, but it has used the means at its disposal. i take note of the suggestions that have just been made, not only to strengthen its resources but also to bring forward various new ideas. one of these ideas is about social protection. and this idea - which is unfortunately only a recommendation, since you know the limits of european competence in matters of social security and you know that every decision must be taken unanimously - is in fact about opening up social security rights to everyone, including artists. and i believe that, indeed, in societies where social protection is a basic right, it is quite normal that those who create should also be covered. it is therefore an invitation to all the member states to ensure social protection for their creators, their artists, and those who are also part of europe, because, as has been said many times, europe is first and foremost culture. we identify ourselves as europeans first and foremost through culture. as far as income is concerned, i should like to say that the commission has launched a programme - which i mentioned earlier - on parttime work, called sure. it was said at the launch that this programme should also be aimed at the independent, and therefore also at artists and creators. some countries have done so, others have not or have done so, but in a very insufficient way. i think that's a lesson to be learned. the crisis we have just experienced has affected some sectors in particular. in fact, the art world, if you can call it that, or the creative world, has lost a third of its revenue. it is one of the sectors that has been hit hardest by the crisis. more than tourism, for that matter, and almost as much as aviation. we must therefore ensure that this sector is actually supported, because, unfortunately, many talented young talents have been discouraged, desperate and some are lost. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur once again. thank you, monica - i take the liberty of saying so, since we know each other very well - for this report. it was important, also for your parliament, that we were discussing artists today, their future and the support they deserve.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 october 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the cultural sector has undoubtedly been hit hard. the covid-19 pandemic has highlighted and exacerbated the problematic working conditions for many artists. the european union must support artists. after all, society needs artists and culture perhaps more than ever. at european level, we call for better cooperation and coordination between member states in providing information to artists working across borders, in particular to avoid red tape and avoid double taxation. we also call for the exploration of possibilities for mutual recognition and even a european framework governing the status of artists, to ensure that artists can benefit from their rights deriving from their status as artists throughout the union.
in writing. – europe is the cradle of civilisation. it is here in our continent that democracy was developed. at the heart of such development, there was a society that relished on culture, on arts, on making a masterpiece out of any effort one made. i am proud to see this parliament ready to take a stand for artists and culture. the pandemic has hit the sector hard. concert halls, theatres and cinemas have been shut down across the eu, greatly damaging the financial lifeline of many independent artists, venue owners and promoters. we need to work with member states to ensure adequate support towards the cultural sector and our artists via concrete measures; we need to be forward-looking; we need true investment in our artists and their working conditions, guaranteeing a creative and cultural future for europe.
madam president, only three member states submitted their partnership agreements to the european commission. it means one thing and one thing only. there is a very high probability that this year it will be a zero when it comes to the budget. a zero 2021 means additional stress on the budgets of 2022, 2023 and 2024. it means that we have a really high risk of losing eu money for our member states, our regions and constituencies. this is much more important than the arguments over a million here or over a million there, and i think a lot of work has been done to reach that agreement. i believe that we should support the compromise that has been reached and not create any additional delays on the budget procedure because we have already lost one year for the new programming period and this is a great paradox. this economy, the european economy, needs european funds to be invested immediately in order to recover, so we cannot play games with this important issue. please vote in favour of the report that has already been proposed.
madam president, commissioner, we have done our best in the committee on budgets, with the first and foremost being our dear colleague, the rapporteur, mr karlo ressler, to succeed in drawing up the budget and in making the european union stronger, greener, more growth oriented, more innovative, more social, by giving particular strength to society and citizens, with particular emphasis on young people, small and mediumsized enterprises, the countryside, our farmers, health and every sensitive social and economic sector. but i firmly believe that a strong and sovereign european union cannot be conceived without strong defence and security and a euro-army. that is why we have strengthened the european defence fund, because we believe that the european union must finally be able to protect its external borders, to protect the sovereignty of the member states and to guarantee the security of its citizens. madam president, commissioner, the principles and values of the european union, as well as my own principles and values and my european ideals, do not allow me to approve and vote for a single euro for countries like turkey, which violate european and international law, which violate the rule of law, which do not respect the principles and values of the european union. i call on my colleagues in the european parliament, the european commission and the european council to follow this rule ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, madam representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's budget, although small, has enormous added value and is essential for the european union's competitiveness, for research, for productivity, for entrepreneurship and, at the same time, for our territorial, economic and social cohesion. and also, and we don't always realize it, we are the largest donor in the world, the largest contributor globally, the largest funder of humanitarian aid. but this budget must be implemented quickly, and there is a concern here, and i turn to the council: the member states are not doing their part. in 2021, there will be no euro to be run from the new cohesion policy, and the economy needs it, youth needs it, small and medium-sized enterprises, local and regional authorities. do your part, adopt the partnership agreements quickly, because about a third of the budget, which is cohesion policy, should be going to the economy quickly.
madam president, the year 2022 will be characterised by an economic crisis and an unemployment crisis. this will lead to more inequalities, more poverty and more social exclusion. i therefore urge the commission as well as the council to be more ambitious and support a european union budget with a more social dimension that contributes positively to a better quality of life for our citizens and workers, as well as to the better functioning of labour markets. a budget to boost sustainable growth, social cohesion and convergence while combating poverty, including child poverty, social exclusion and inequalities. the next budget should guarantee sufficient investment in key s&d initiatives, such as the guarantees for children and youth, the european pillar of social rights, and social dialogue and social innovation. the commission and the epp rapporteur should have been more ambitious in relation to the pilot projects and preparatory actions by supporting projects that will address the current social and employment-related challenges arising from the pandemic.
madam president, the un human rights council has been mentioned here and it made a very important statement recently, recognising that the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment is a human right. we all know that there’s a very strong correlation between environment and human health. emissions from the vehicles we drive, particulate matter in our air, pollutants in our drinking water, pollutants in our soil, hazardous chemicals, noise, all have an effect on our health, the health of our citizens. climate change, heatwaves, floods, changes in the distribution of our airborne diseases and how they are distributed have an effect on our health, and some of our citizens are more vulnerable than others, as we know – the elderly, young people and those with underlying conditions. the aarhus convention recently was another very positive step – and we agreed it in this parliament – for allowing individuals and ngos the right to information on their environment and importantly, the right of access to courts. science will provide us with the solutions on how to solve the effect that human activities are having on our environment. we need to invest in science and we need to follow the science.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues for raising this really important issue and having this debate this evening, because we do need to look at the connection and the right to a healthy environment of citizens, not just of europe, but globally. there were some points raised (and many), so i can’t address all of them, but i want to reassure you that, when it comes to water, last year’s revision of the drinking water directive addresses the citizens’ initiative on the right to water, which is an important step for clean water for all. in addition to that, we look at worker protections. the european union has ambitious legislation protecting workers, and we agree with the european parliament and its recently adopted article 225 tfeu report on the issue of asbestos. when it comes to due diligence and the topic of deforestation, we are also actively working on these issues. so i want to reassure you on those particular points. i mentioned earlier, in my opening remarks, that the european commission will continue to play a proactive role on this important topic and, importantly, to engage internationally to promote the recognition of the right to a healthy environment and to ensure its implementation on the ground. but of course, we can’t tackle this global issue on our own. we do need to leverage our efforts by further increasing international cooperation to raise the global ambitions and standards together. addressing climate change and biodiversity loss, protecting and preserving the planet from pollution and resource depletion is simply not an option but an imperative responsibility for which we, as leaders, decision—makers and legal professionals, will be held accountable by this generation and future generations. so we really do have to step up to the challenge. i want to thank you all for your contributions, and i hope you have heard from me directly our commitment as a commission to this issue.
the chairman of the council. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner. i thank you for your contributions to the debate today. today we heard that both the council and the european commission are working together to promote a healthy environment. i can assure you that the presidency will continue to make a strong commitment to the eu to continue to do everything in its power to preserve biodiversity, starting now with the agreement at cop15 in 2022 on an ambitious and transformative new global framework for biodiversity beyond 2020. the eu will also actively participate in the debate on human rights and climate change and environmental issues, to ensure that it takes a visible lead on these issues, and also by making this very activity visible to other international actors of the european union. we look forward to further cooperation with the european parliament on these matters and to further discussions here in the plenary. - thank you. - thank you.
i found out that it was slovenia that brought this issue to the un human rights council along with four other countries. this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
written. although all member states are committed to protecting their citizens from water and soil pollution, in practice this is unfortunately often not the case. take croatia, for example, which, despite official warnings from the european commission that waste management in the area of biljan donji is not being done in a way that protects human health and the environment, is doing nothing. nor are the residents of long war, near omiš, who have been asking the ministry of environmental protection and energy for years to clean up the carcinogenic waste from the former dalmatian iron ore factory. the fact that the united nations human rights council recently declared access to a healthy environment to be a fundamental human right also shows that the right of humans to live in a healthy environment is a matter of recognized importance. we are witnessing a transformation in society that increasingly recognises the direct link between the need to protect biodiversity, reduce the harmful impact of climate change and address environmental pollution, and protect human health and relieve the burden on health systems.
in writing. – sustainable development, in its three dimensions (social, economic and environmental), and protection of the environment, including ecosystems, contribute to and promote human well-being and the enjoyment of human rights, including the rights to life, to comply with the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, to an adequate standard of living, to adequate food, to housing, to safe drinking water and sanitation and to participation in cultural life, for present and future generations. at the global level, more than 155 states, i.e. romania, have recognised some form of a right to a healthy environment in, inter alia, international agreements or their national constitutions, legislation or policies. the situation is the same at eu level, too. in order to promote the synergy between the un and eu human rights charters, based on the recently adopted hrc resolution and to implement the social pillar of the european green deal, i deeply encourage the states to continue to share good practices in fulfilling human rights obligations relating to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment, by exchanging knowledge and ideas, based on an integrated and multisectoral approach, respecting other human rights obligations, including those related to gender equality.
the next item is the report by mrs maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of joint undertakings under the horizon europe framework programme (com (2021) 0087 c9-0166/2021 2021/0048 nle)) (a9-0246/2021).
the nine partnerships covered by this simplified single act are a key element of the horizon europe framework programme. this involves total investments of more than eur 20 billion, of which at least half is supported by the private partners of these initiatives. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the hire or hire of furniture, in this report, we are guided by the principles of openness, transparency and inclusion, which we want to be transversal to all partnerships. we want to increase the participation of smes and start-ups, we want to boost co-creation processes, we want to increase the proportion of innovative solutions that reach the market. we have tried to remove bureaucratic barriers, simplify procedures and create conditions for the possibility of synergies with other european, national and regional programmes and funds. and we did all this not because we doubted the effectiveness of previous experiments, of public-private partnerships, but because we firmly believe that these are one of the keys to realizing our great goals. this new generation of partnerships has the potential to bring us the realization of two objectives that must be pursued simultaneously: the vision of a greener and more environmentally friendly europe and, at the same time, the vision of a competitive europe, creating jobs, creating wealth, capable of offering an ever better quality of life to all its citizens, a europe better prepared to face health crises, natural disasters, shortages of resources. for those who think that all this is rhetoric and good intentions, a simple example will suffice. a few days ago, the world health organization approved for the first time the use of a malaria vaccine in children in countries of sub-saharan africa and other countries heavily affected by this disease. the vaccine in question was developed thanks to the strong involvement, direct and indirect, of the edctp partnership, a partnership that will not only continue, but will be strengthened in this unique act under the name of global health. this is an example of the extraordinary potential of these initiatives and i am sure others will follow. many examples, from a new generation of commercial aircraft with reduced co2 emissions to innovative medicines, a more efficient management of raw materials, of our natural resources, not forgetting, of course, the decisive digitisation and the entire area of production in the digital sector. these partnerships are doors that open up to our common future in europe.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mrs maria da graça carvalho, but also the non-existent rapporteurs and all the members of the cult and itre committees who have worked diligently to develop parliament's position on european partnerships in such a short time. yes, we know that european partnerships are an opportunity to work together: with member states, with industry, with our small and medium-sized enterprises, with scientists and innovators from all over europe and beyond. the partnerships will address the most challenging issues of our time: climate change, clean energy, environmentally friendly transport, digitalisation, innovation in health. but only by working together can we respond to the profound economic and social transformation underway, move towards sustainability, increase resilience and support the recovery of key sectors, all of which benefit the citizens of the union. the new partnerships aim to bring together talent to accelerate the commercial deployment of new solutions, in particular those that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, as well as to fully unlock europe's digital potential. we are discussing today nine institutional joint ventures brought together in the single basic act. the european union will invest almost €10 billion to achieve this. the private sector has committed to exceed our contribution to €13 billion in investment and there is still room for member states to step up efforts. the single basic act facilitates synergies between union and national actions. it also lays down common provisions on how the joint undertakings are expected to collaborate with other union initiatives, in particular to ensure that results are taken into account. and we all know how important it is to use the recovery and resilience facility funds as a national contribution to the horizon europe partnership. the single basic act confirms this possibility if it is provided for in the national recovery and resilience plans and if the rules on rrs are respected. the commission appreciates the efforts made by parliament to improve this legislation. let me give you a few examples: your call for gender balance and equality between men and women has inspired this regulation and will hopefully provide a solid foundation for the partnership working environment. horizon europe itself refers to gender issues as one of its principles, so this is a natural progression. the creation and dissemination of competences references are also being strengthened following the parliament's call, while respecting the key objectives of the joint undertakings. the commission also shares parliament's hope of creating more open and transparent joint ventures. the letters of commitment from the private partners' entrepreneurs will be published on the basis of a case-by-case assessment. following parliament's call, the joint undertakings will have to be more transparent by providing more information on their activities. the european parliament also proposed making scientific advisory bodies compulsory for all joint undertakings and strengthening their role. the commission agrees that the joint undertakings will benefit from scientific advice. however, a certain degree of flexibility is necessary. all the joint ventures will no doubt reflect scientific expertise, but also in different ways. finally, we have ensured that the regulation does not reduce the obligations of the private partners. any form of reserved budget would not be compatible with the principle of openness. furthermore, without a clear commitment, the overall dimension of a partnership cannot be assessed. i am aware that it has not been possible to take account of some of the amendments proposed by the european parliament, but i am convinced that we remain aligned in our objectives for these partnerships, both in terms of their scientific scope and their capacity as a synergy tool to support our key policies through research and innovation. i thank you in advance for this debate.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr carvalho, because she has done a really excellent job. there is no doubt that the scientific study of measurement is fundamental to all productive activities. measurements must meet international definitions and standards, be accurate and generate confidence. we need to modernise the metrology system in the european union. and how would you do that? well, essentially, through research and innovation. more specifically in the digital domain, national metrology institutes need to have the most advanced measurement capabilities because this really contributes to generating innovative digital services and developing emerging technologies such as quantum computing and artificial intelligence. we hope that the european metrology association, which has a budget of up to eur 300 million, will be able to achieve these objectives.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the european partnerships on research and innovation represent the first concrete step towards implementing horizon europe and making it able to tackle the most urgent challenges our union is facing: to build back better, greener and more digital. as the s&d negotiator on this file, i welcome the work the european parliament has carried out, and i would like to thank colleagues, especially our rapporteur, maria da graça carvalho. whilst the name of the dossier ‘joint undertakings’ is probably not the catchiest way to refer to important research partnerships, their potential is vast and enormous. from healthcare to hydrogen, from clean aviation to digital connectivity, the european partnerships will greatly contribute towards making europe more competitive, while fostering collaboration between the public sector and industrial players, including innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. to live up to the expectations of our citizens and businesses, we must ensure that research has a truly effective societal impact. european partnerships will contribute to this goal by enhancing the inclusiveness of innovation, strengthening the gender dimension, and improving the link between industrial research and skills for workers across the value chain. the use of public funds for research needs not only great accountability, but also the utmost effectiveness to make it serve the public good. i look forward to working more on this subject together.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, thank you for a constructive, rich and relevant debate. i am particularly pleased that your report on the european education area looks in the same direction as our communication as the european commission. i particularly appreciate three messages: teachers as the ultimate success factor, co-creation to bring institutional and stakeholder approaches closer together and finally the emphasis on a european dimension to education, including a sense of belonging to the european union and citizenship education. there is a crucial message in the context of the covid-19 pandemic: everyone should have equal access to learning, no one should be left behind. i think there is a broad consensus on this, given that the first preliminary analysis of the national recovery and resilience plans shows that member states are planning to invest in education and skills and that the financial allocations are large in many countries. and i can assure you that we will remain committed to implementing many of the actions of the european education area. in order to continue and further exchange on these issues, i would also be pleased to see you among the participants of the european education summit on 9 december. in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you once again for your report, mrs šojdrová, for your trust and support, dear members of the committee on culture and education, dear members of the european parliament, and for the inspiring exchanges in which i am always delighted to take part. we see you as a strong ally, a loyal ally in our common efforts to ensure access to quality education and training for every citizen of the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the contributions that have been made, the great expectations, the great tasks that lie ahead. our goal is an educated and resilient europe. education is not a commodity, ladies and gentlemen, it is a value in itself. this is why primary and secondary education is free in all the member states of the european union, and why the european union supports this effort of inclusion, quality and accessibility of the member states. the european education area can only be developed in cooperation with the member states, i am now looking to the right. subsidiarity and the competences of the member states are essential to us and we will respect them. but the european union has the right, indeed the obligation, to support the member states in fulfilling their important mission. i would also like to respond to the concern that students from the east, from universities in slovakia, but also from other countries, are leaving for universities in the west of the eu. but who more than the european union supports universities in the member countries, whether it's slovakia, the czech republic? it's billions of crowns that have been invested in the quality of higher education and will continue to be supported. it's up to us to take this opportunity and really not let the intelligence go, the young people go. and then there's the fear of censorship, of some ideological approach. it's the opposite. as my colleague polczak has already said, educated people are resistant to populism and manipulation. that is why we are working hard on education, the kind of education that will really make the european union resilient to populism, extremism and the spread of fearful news. i think it is clear to everyone that by approving this report we are in fact giving ourselves a task. we have to put the idea of a european education area into practice. i'm very much looking forward to this collaboration. i thank the commissioner and all the colleagues who will be working on this.
in writing. – the twin transition europe is witnessing as well as the post-covid-19 recovery should – first and foremost – be based on one of the most precious intangible assets we have: knowledge and education. our union should become a robust space of learning, including everyone: from learners themselves to teachers, from educational institutions to enterprises. the enhancement of the cooperation between the eu and its member states in this field is essential; we should not forget that ‘education, training and life-long learning’ constitute the first principle of the european pillar of social rights. this is the reason why the achievement of the european education area will give the union an edge in ensuring inclusive and affordable quality education, whilst putting the learner at the centre of the learning process. i stress the importance of focusing on achieving gender equality through this process. we need to foster gender sensitivity in education and training both by eliminating any kind of sexist behaviour and sexual harassment in this sector, and by challenging those gender stereotypes on study choices that still hamper girls and women from unleashing their full potential.
in writing. the european education area is an essential need for the future of europe, as the opportunities for 'european added value' offered by education and training are innumerable. one of the most successful examples is erasmus+, which has helped thousands of people to gain new experiences, new knowledge and skills and to broaden their horizons. education must be our main weapon in dealing with emergencies and phenomena such as populism and racism. we need to invest in education and strengthen european identity through familiarity with the eu, its institutions and policies. the importance of learning foreign languages, and english in particular, in the modern digital age is undeniable, and the objective of a sufficient knowledge of at least two eu languages at the end of lower secondary education can become a reality. ensuring a common approach towards groups such as people with disabilities or people with learning difficulties is also very important because no one can and should be left behind. the opportunities for the development of all different talents must be supported by all of us in practice.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, metrology is a discipline which serves all areas of knowledge. it makes science work, it makes technology work. it helps societies evolve. it lets us know where we are, whether we're tackling a pandemic or implementing disruptive changes like the green and digital transitions. in the fight against covid-19, it has contributed to the development of efficient ventilators and even to the increased accuracy of rapid tests, used daily by millions of people. in industry, it is the technology that underpins the quality assurance of the manufacturing process. the mass production of sophisticated equipment would be unthinkable without metrology. it is also vital for studying weather phenomena. we wouldn't be where we are, technologically, without metrology. we wouldn't even get where we want to go. this new public-public partnership, co-financed by horizon europe, builds on previous initiatives but raises the bar in the face of new policy objectives. the parliament's report, which i had the honour of leading, in close collaboration with the shadow rapporteurs, was based on a good proposal from the european commission, introducing improvements at various levels. among the main points we have succeeded in adopting, i would like to mention: greater links both upstream with universities and research centres and downstream with small and mediumsized enterprises, industry and society in general. the importance of scientific excellence and academic freedom. the promotion of greater openness and transparency in management activities. increased dialogue with society as well as increased public visibility of the results achieved. strengthening the possibility of establishing synergies, both between the partnerships and with the other financial instruments, both at the level of the european commission and of each member state. the negotiations with the council under the slovenian presidency were frankly positive, with all our amendments from the european parliament being accepted. our parliamentary report is largely reflected in the final text agreed in the trilogue. now we need to concentrate all our efforts, all our energies, to make this partnership operational as quickly as possible, because the time to materialization is critical for our researchers and entrepreneurs.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs carvalho, dear maria, ladies and gentlemen, the fictitious rapporteurs, we are discussing the partnership on metrology this evening. a major partnership and the only one to be adopted under article 185 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. metrology is the science of measurement. it is a key activity for european research and industry, as it directly concerns technical standards and standards and thus the development of new innovative products and services. the proposal for a new partnership in this sector comes at a time when europe is facing increased global competition. the major international players have increased their investments over the last decade. in contrast, investment in europe remained fairly stable over the same period. the partnership will allow for increased collaboration in joint research projects between the national metrology institutes of all member states and the other participating countries, between industrial and medical organisations or between universities, in specific areas such as industry, energy, environment and health. it will also help to address the current fragmentation of the sector. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mrs carvalho, the non-attached rapporteurs from all the political groups and their teams, the committee on industry, research and energy and of course my team for the excellent cooperation and preparation of this decision. i welcome the results of the trilogue we had on 28 september. the compromise reached improved the final text. i appreciate your amendments on transparency and accountability. the text is now more robust, particularly with regard to potential conflicts of interest of those involved in the governance of the future partnership. of course, we must consider that the members appointed by the participating states are subject to national rules on conflicts of interest. it should also be borne in mind that the steering committee is a group of commission experts and is therefore subject to the commission's rules on liability and conflicts of interest. but the more transparent the better. we agreed that the partnership in metrology will promote freedom of academic research in all participating countries, in particular non-eu countries. let me stress that the commission is firmly committed to ensuring that researchers from all over the world, not just in europe, can carry out their work freely, without any political pressure or interference. last year i had the pleasure of signing the bonn declaration on the freedom of scientific research, and this clearly shows how important this principle is to us. a balance between men and women should be considered in the composition of the different bodies of the partnership on metrology. a more balanced environment in research and development is one of the commission's objectives and you know my personal commitment to this objective. we have also taken care to increase scientific representation. the metrology partnership steering group will now include four representatives of the scientific community. scientific advice is essential and that is why i welcome this approach. i ensure that my services, together with the other commission services, work tirelessly on developing guidelines on how to strengthen the synergies between 'horizon europe' and cohesion policy. i know how much you and the member states are looking forward to this, because it must finally be put into practice. so let me conclude by thanking you once again for the very fruitful negotiations. together we have ensured that the metrology partnership continues to contribute to european competitiveness and to the green and digital transformation of industry.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, rapporteur and co-rapporteurs. i am very pleased that a partnership has now been established under horizon europe specifically in the field of metrology, or measurement science. i think this is a really important opening for europe, because measurement science is the essential basis of course for all our scientific research and innovation, so that we have reliable and comparable data. this is very important for the quality of the research. we know that at present in the member states of the european union, metrology is very fragmented. we have a lot of expertise, but now we can put it all together. this funding, eur 300 million, is a significant opening for the european union, because, as the commissioner said here, our competitors, above all the united states and china, have increased their funding very strongly, specifically in the field of metrology. but when we look at european funding, it has been fairly constant for these research institutes, so in that sense it is important that we now pool our expertise and start funding this in a big way, because it is important, as the rapporteur, mr carvalho, has said here. in the field of green transition and digitalisation, among others, there is a need for reliable measurement data to support research. this will ensure that by 2030 we have metrology solutions that are among the best in the world and able to meet the complexity of measurement challenges and the needs of new technologies. this is a very good objective behind this partnership and it will also enable us to design and implement the necessary standards and rules better.
on behalf of the s&d group. i welcome the parliament and council agreement on a european partnership in metrology and would like to thank the rapporteur for this joint achievement and for her work. while metrology, the science of measurement, is still not well known, it represents one of the oldest scientific fields of study. i would say that the ancient egyptians and the babylonians already used uniform standards of measurement. metrology is important in our daily lives, from health to manufacturing, from trade to connectivity, the quality of measurement has a cross-cutting impact on our union's priorities. and more generally on the green and digital transition we need to make. the results of research in this area are more tangible than we can imagine. let us think for example of monitoring co2 emissions and air pollution in general, health diagnostics and even smart networks. these are all concrete examples of how reliable measurement standards can concretely address societal challenges. the new partnership on metrology will represent a way forward to give this science the visibility it deserves while also ensuring the inclusiveness of the research infrastructure and a more restrictive participation of our scientists and smes. the agreement between the parliament and the council will also contribute to reducing the persistent investment gap in terms of metrological capacities and to keeping pace with other global players financially supporting this sector so that we have a much stronger sector even from the european union. as a european parliament we must be vigilant to ensure that this partnership achieves its objectives while increasing scientific exchanges among national metrology institutes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think that the report which the commission is presenting to us shows several things at once. it shows on the one hand that we as the european union are on the right track in terms of energy supply, in terms of replacing fossil fuels with new ones, and that we have so far made a successful path in terms of decarbonisation. but it also shows that we are still 1.8 percent off the linear target path to achieve the 2030 energy efficiency target. so, for all the joy and pride in what we've achieved, we have a big task ahead of us to achieve this goal. i look in the direction of comrade bloss - sorry, mr bloss - but his party and mine have today signed a coalition agreement together, where we can at least say: germany will make its contribution to achieving this objective. we can also achieve this by taking a more ambitious approach to the red iii initiative. we must finally get to the point where we can achieve binding enlargement targets for the member states too. this is all the more important when 31 million people in energy poverty cannot let us rest.
mr president, the scenario europe is experiencing this year, with rising energy prices and a still somewhat high dependence on third countries, shows us that we still have a long way to go to achieve the objectives of the energy union. how can we do this? by working, truly effective market integration, improving security of supply through appropriate infrastructure so that no country is left behind, regardless of its dimension or geographical position. the continued use of renewable sources also confirms that the future is moving forward and that research and innovation in clean technologies is crucial if we are to see renewable sources become more widely used and affordable. the success of all dimensions of the energy union will continue to contribute to building a cleaner europe that should also be friendly to both consumers and businesses.
in writing. – 30 million people across europe suffer from a rare condition: a number which accounts for 60 times the size of my own country, malta. the findings of the rare 2030 foresight study are clear: we need a new eu policy framework for rare diseases for them to remain a public health priority. we can achieve it through european actions that enhance cooperation of long-term national plans and policies while monitoring their achievement with measurable goals. our fight is to eliminate the inequalities persons living with a rare disease and their families experience every day! from combating isolation to the possibility of obtaining special leave to take care of a member of the family, a european action plan should fully support the potential and wellbeing of all people living with a rare disease. we can make the difference in many ways, such as enhancing the awareness of people living with a rare disease in society as well as supporting their better access to medicine, employment and education. i urge the european commission to act swiftly: leaving no patient and no family behind is not just a matter of fairness; it is a moral imperative.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. fair play must also apply in the digital world. we need a strong sword to combat distortions of competition, anti-competitive behaviour. the current competition law is not sufficient to ensure fair rules. so it is very good, ladies and gentlemen, that the digital markets regulation is on the table. i think we also need a strong digital medium-sized business. this requires that start-ups, small and medium-sized enterprises have fair market access to the large platforms and fair conditions on the platforms. the important thing is that the act that's on the table now is accurate. this means that it focuses on the largest internet companies and on what are called core platform services, i.e. markets with real competition problems. and that's the most important thing to me: not regulating everything, not regulating everything, but just going in there and tackling what's really causing problems. and i believe that the version of the digital markets act that has now been introduced in parliament can do just that. i would like to thank all my colleagues, especially andreas schwab, for his excellent work.
madam president, the digital market is the first of its kind, an ex-ante instrument to regulate big tech and to safeguard that markets impacted by them remain fair, contestable and also competitive. big tech giants such as apple, google and amazon have not only become unavoidable trading partners, but they have dictated the rules for too long, creating an environment that can tip off the market, distort competition and also harm our consumers. the text negotiated by the rapporteur and also my colleague and shadow for the s&d group, evelyne gebhardt, is an ambitious position that will introduce an obligation for interoperability for messenger and social media services, a ban on targeted ads for minors and better enforcement for the protection of personal data. digital gatekeepers will have to be transparent and ban unfair practices, such as self—referencing, dark patterns and any obligations bundling traders to use only their own platform services. i fully support a meaningful ex-ante instrument that will finally set the record straight and create a level playing field for fair and open markets, consumer welfare, and also the protection of european businesses, particularly our smes.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for this debate. i believe we are very close to creating a fair, open and competitive digital space, one where consumers are protected in the same way across the union, while, of course, allowing innovative businesses to thrive within the single market. i hope that parliament will be able to vote on its position and i would like to thank you all for making this important choice for the future of our society and our economy. the dma's specific objective is to enable innovative startups to compete with established platforms. this is the whole philosophy of the dma and this is why we proposed it, this is to avoid that the big platforms - the so-called gatekeepers - reduce innovation. if the dma harmonises the obligations necessary to reorganise the economic aspects, the dsa harmonises the obligations necessary to protect our societies and our fellow citizens, in particular against illegal and harmful content. the commission will of course be ready to start working with you and the future french presidency to complete these two dossiers: the dma and the dsa. it will also seek to implement them together as soon as possible. you can of course count on the commission to work with all of you in the next steps, particularly in the trilogues. and by the way, if you will allow me, i would also like to thank mrs gebhardt. first, for his commitment to this issue: i can testify here that he has been consistent. but also, if you will allow me, dear mrs gebhardt, for all your work in this parliament and for the union.
executive vice—president of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank all the members for a very good debate. i think everyone who has listened in has felt that this is what democracy is about – grappling with a thing that makes us feel small. this is really about empowering people and harnessing the powerful. because with size comes responsibility, and i think that is the worst threat exposed in every intervention here today. for that, i want to thank you. because this also, i think, shows the commitment for the work that we have ahead of us, to make sure that it is as now tabled, proportional, gives legal certainty and, first and foremost, enforceability – that we can make this work on the ground. as my colleague thierry breton just said, this is a pro—innovation proposal. this is a proposal that gives a chance to smaller businesses, enabling them – based on their ideas, their work ethic, their business model – to get to their customers. i just came back from the u.s. a few days ago and it was interesting to see the interest, the open questions, and to be able to explain what it is that we’re doing. i see a lot of the things that we’re doing here mirrored in the debates that they are having both in the congress and in the senate. i find that very encouraging. i also find it encouraging that here we are, in a legislative chamber, setting the agenda for the future at the first. i also want to add myself to the row of people thanking member gebhardt for the work done. it must be really fulfilling to have this big project as one of the final ones. congratulations and thank you. i think now the architecture of the proposal has been validated, with a robust designation mechanism for gatekeepers, with an exhaustive list of ‘dos and don’ts’ rather than open—ended case—by—case remedies, and with centralised eu level enforcement. all of this has been based on the broad evidence pointing to a number of fundamental concerns when it comes to the behaviour of gatekeepers, as said in so many interventions today. at the same time, this is a focused proposal, this is an enforceable proposal. i look forward, fully committed, to the work we have ahead of us to make this happen.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, 14 december 2021, with the final vote on wednesday, 15 december 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – europe today is taking an important step in establishing order in the online world. it has been over twenty years since we have updated our digital market’s rules. most of the major players existing today, as well as their business models, had not even been invented. in europe, we cherish fairness and competition. as legislators, we need to ensure markets that are contestable and fair. the digital markets act will do exactly this, holding dominant players accountable for their actions, levelling the playing field by obliging them to respect specific rules. if not, they will face consequences. for this reason, it will be paramount that the dma is enforced appropriately once it comes into force. many sectors in the eu need this. the european travel and tourism sector needs this. this is for the best interests of consumers. let us keep setting the example for the rest of the world. let us keep preserving the diversity in our markets and ensuring european businesses can become strong players in the market.
mr president, the committee on petitions plays a crucial role as a bridge between eu citizens, parliament and the eu institutions, and the right to petition is one of the fundamental rights of all eu citizens and also residents. i would like, first of all, to thank my colleague cristina maestre for her excellent work on this important report, which outlines the increased number of petitions in 2020, with a large number of petitions voicing citizens’ concerns over public health issues, socio—economic emergencies resulting directly from the covid pandemic. this increased number clearly shows that, in times of crisis, our citizens rely on us and put their trust in us by directly addressing concerns and complaints. that is why it is extremely important to treat each and every petition that falls within the union’s fields of activity in the most open, democratic and transparent way. moreover, we need to increase citizens’ awareness on the right to petition in our member states and encourage them to exercise this fundamental right of tabling a petition by addressing their concerns directly to elected representatives at eu level.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what are we talking about today? i'm sorry about the transport. mobility is becoming unaffordable, simply unaffordable for many people. there are 18 million commuters in europe, over half of whom use their car for their daily commute. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. what are the causes of this development? the price, of course. but the key drivers are primarily taxes and levies. examples of a litre of petrol: 65 cents in germany, 71 cents in greece and 72 cents in italy. yes, we want change. we want to be carbon neutral by 2050. we do not want to do this on the backs of people who need their cars to make a living. mobility must remain affordable. here in parliament it is mainly the greens and the socialists who are always calling for new taxes and fees and a price for co2 as high as possible. then they call for social equality and redistribution. i am in favour of tackling this problem at its root. this means: reluctance to introduce new duties, taxes and charges on a permanent basis; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. if we take this into account, we will not have to make up for the disadvantages we have created by diverting social funds. individual mobility must remain affordable for all. thank you very much and merry christmas!
mr president, commissioner, the free movement of persons and goods is one of the keys to the european project. it is a key element in the construction of european citizenship, because it promotes the coexistence of diversity, and for the single market, because it breaks down the barriers that allowed many economic operators to live in their comfort zones. it is also a fundamental tool for integration. therefore, promoting an integrated, intelligent and accessible mobility system is also a substantial part of the european social model. let us therefore encourage a holistic debate on the role of mobility and transport from the perspective of integration. let us assume that public transport networks are vital for many people to have the opportunities that mobility provides. let us recognize that tackling transport poverty must be brought into the public agenda with the same energy with which we talk about energy poverty, and let us work to make this a priority commitment of our social model.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. people affected by transport poverty have limited access to goods, services or social capital, which in turn limits their life chances. and yet, work, home, education, shopping, health care are all essential mobility in our lives. transport poverty typically affects the elderly, the disabled, women, children, poor people or those living in remote areas with limited access to public transport. the elimination of all transport barriers, and thus of poverty and exclusion, should therefore be a priority of the european union's social policy. the changes and proposals that are being prepared should take into account the unfortunately worsening economic situation of a large part of the european union's population, caused by the successive waves of covid and the rising prices of fuels, goods and services, as my predecessors have already mentioned. we should also take into account the public perception of the proposed solutions and the energy transition process, which may reduce or already reduce trust in these regulations, as they may result in additional financial burdens for households. we must also remember, commissioner, that even the best proposals, such as low-emission cars, are still too expensive for a large part of society and even special incentives will not change this. if we want to move to a low-carbon economy, to achieve climate neutrality, we must remember that this cannot be done at the expense of the people of the european union alone.
mr president, transport poverty is a reality in the european union. it exists in urban areas, in our villages, coastal regions and islands. the problem impacts low-income families across europe, and also people with disabilities who lack sufficient access. for this reason we must design mobility and investment plans in a deliberate and specific way, also for different regions. we must be realistic, we must ensure that the poor and vulnerable are not the ones paying the highest price in the environmental transition. what happens when old cars are stopped? prices are rising. this is why we must see to it that compensation mechanisms are put in place and ensure that just transition policies accompany the green pact. but not only. better use of data, free public transport, as is being implemented in countries such as malta, and the promotion of alternative solutions such as car pooling must become a reality. let us embrace our values of inclusiveness and free movement by tackling transport poverty with action.
mr president, sexual harassment exists, as colleagues have stated, everywhere. when i came to this parliament, the metoo movement had already named the elephant in the room. yes, harassment is also present in this house. it’s present on the streets, at workplaces, on public transportation, day and night alike, everywhere, and everyone could be affected, including politicians and workers across the board. why is it present? because some abuse their position of power and feel entitled to, because they have not been punished for their acts, or have not been addressed in a way that helps them, via training, to avoid this in the future. victims are often too afraid and uncomfortable to speak up and proceed. yes, even in this house to this day. thank you to the socialists, evelyn regner and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) for promoting this. it’s not enough to raise awareness; we need concrete measures and actions. compulsory training for meps is not a violation of their freedom, as some have claimed. being abused and made to fear for one’s integrity or job security, and having one’s mental health at stake is. i do welcome the progress made thanks to the metoo movement advocacy. however, there are institutional changes which need to be effected: an independent, timely and fair process to ensure victims of harassment will be given adequate and effective protection, uprooting sexism and gender stereotypes. we need a radical change of mentality to confine sexual harassment to the pages of history books, pages that we do not want to open again. here we need education. as the european parliament, we should lead by example, raising awareness and promoting a truly zero—harassment policy to make sure victims are protected, not victimised. let us effectively unite and act against any form of harassment and discrimination.
