president, the european court of auditors found too many errors in the european budget for 2019. so that was about 2019, a year without a pandemic, without economic recessions and without the necessary european support package. with a huge amount of money now being released to help european economies, tight controls on the spending of european money are all the more important. it is essential that this aid money reaches the people who are most affected, that europe is committed to social and green recovery. so, strict controls are needed to ensure that the money is properly spent and that no european taxpayers' money is misused. this is particularly true in the european countries where the rule of law is under pressure. i therefore also call on the european commission to make use of the rule of law mechanism from now on, without succumbing to the delaying tactics and tricks of oligarchs and autocrats, because only then will economic recovery, the protection of fundamental rights and the protection of taxpayers' money go hand in hand.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. sustainable management based on maximum sustainable yield (msy) is beginning to bear fruit, especially in the north sea. however, overfishing is still a problem, particularly in the black sea and the mediterranean. that's why it's important that we get as many species as possible at the mdo level. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. the report's initially unqualified criticism of bottom-dwelling fisheries has fortunately been deleted, and rightly so. we must not be guided by emotion, but by facts. that is precisely why, mr president, selective pulse technology must be made possible again within responsible frameworks. it also needs more customization. the differences between the various sea basins are very great. i therefore think it is very unwise to support the proposal to designate 30% of the sea as a marine protected area, particularly as no impact assessment has been carried out yet. i think that the rapporteur is frankly expecting too much from protected and closed nature reserves. let us not forget that fishing also requires space and is vital not only for the fishing communities but also for our food security.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, marie-pierre vedrenne, for her excellent work. the eu must remain committed to a multilateral order, an effective wto and a functioning appellate body. but as the body remains paralysed, the eu needs to expand its enforcement possibilities, and this proposal we are discussing today will contribute to the next step in the expansion. i especially welcome the equal treatment of breaches of market access and sustainable proficiency. the current proposal, however, is merely the beginning of expanding our trade toolbox. developing enforcement capabilities for trade and sustainable development—related provisions in our fta is the crucial next step. to achieve this goal, the eu must work towards developing strict enforcement instruments. we should act upon this opportunity that we have now. we need to develop an adequate and strict sanctions mechanism to make sure that trading partners respect the standards and ftas we agreed upon. our credibility and effectiveness in trade policy is at risk if we do not develop proper enforcement capabilities. the commission must show its commitment towards enforcing our standards to protect our values, to protect human rights. i strongly urge the commission to come up with a proposal for an effective trade and sustainable development enforcement regulation, including an active role for parliamentary oversight.
president, commissioner, if we look at the map of europe, we see that european transport networks are emerging in the member states. but as soon as a boundary is drawn, those connections fade or stop. and for a country like the netherlands, where more than half the provinces are on the border, that is a problem. the emphasis on fast links between european capitals is rightly being placed on making the train an attractive alternative to the airplane. but even more important are those regional cross-border connections. in the netherlands, i think of the ghent-terneuzen, the zwolle-bentheim or the eindhoven-düsseldorf routes. all these links need to be improved, and the same is true in many other member states. regions are crucial to recovery from this crisis. cross-border links are of great importance for these regions. that is the strength of these regions. and that is why i am calling for these regional crossborder links to be given high priority in future plans for european transport networks.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, one minute to describe the freezing cold, the filthiness, the hunger, the unsafety and the desperateness of thousands of people close to our borders. they are victims of deterrence policies, stuck in bosnia and herzegovina after being pushed back by european countries or stuck on the greek islands in substandard and shameful conditions. our legislation has values and rights, but the practice lacks solidarity and is lawless. we need support and pressure for decent shelter in bosnia and herzegovina, and support and pressure for the greek government to comply with eu standards on reception and asylum. we need the commission finally to end the impunity of pushbacks and we need the member states to stop turning a blind eye. take responsibility. relocate the people. let local communities welcome them. make our asylum policies lawful again. bring in humanity again. we have no time left.
madam president, i am experiencing a sense of déjà vu. it would – if i were a cynical man – suffice just to repeat one of my previous contributions. since the last time not much has happened, so i could repeat myself and call to relieve pressure at our external borders, provide help to refugees close to the homes they’ve fled, and end the business model of smugglers. but instead, i will ask questions and expect also answers. to the commissioner: what are the concrete actions on the external dimension of migration? do we have new partnerships with third countries? when will you enforce the current legislative framework, containing proper and agreed standards at our borders? and is the joint pilot in greece not the bare minimum of what may be expected in the european union? and to the council, to ms zacarias, what is your concrete timeline for negotiating on the new proposals, and how will you ensure it will create a future-proof eu migration policy, and not a paper tiger?
madam president, commissioner johansson, the portuguese presidency, 'hell is other people' wrote jean-paul sartre. and there has been talk of hell in bosnia, which is not the european union. three thousand people are left to the cold of winter, despite the fact that the european union has invested more than 90 million euros. but i'm talking about the canaries. to many, a paradise. in any case, the european union, the external border of the european union, is in a dramatic situation. 23 000 people arrived in 2020, and more than 1 300 so far in 2021, on the most dangerous route to europe and with a huge effort to rescue survivors at sea by public resources. maritime rescue without any hot return, as frontex is accused of in the aegean sea. the spanish government has received 43 million euros from the european union's emergency fund for a dignified reception, food and health care and, in addition, for the identification of traffickers. but the canary islands' capacity to host is limited, not only by its territory and stressed population, in which any xenophobic outbreak must be prevented, but also temporarily. it can't be indefinite, which is why there's a referral grant to the peninsula. but there must also be a revival of resettlement programmes which express binding solidarity in the face of a common challenge, which is the european union.
madam president, let us not go around the bush, the situation of migrants at our borders is appalling. whatever the origin or motivation of the migrants at our borders, they are human beings who deserve humanitarian assistance. what does international law say about humanitarian aid? the principle of impartiality is a major principle of international law, which is why international law makes rescue at sea an obligation. the european union is certainly not indifferent to this situation, but it must be admitted that it can also be part of the problem. i do not doubt for a moment the sincerity of commissioner johansson, and i am waiting, as she is, for the results of the investigations concerning frontex in particular. first of all, frontex, like any european institution or body, is obliged to respect international humanitarian law, and if there are rules that could well do without exceptions, it is those that are the basis of international law.
president, commissioner, secretary of state, we have all seen the images of moria and other places that have been on the agenda today, and of course we must prevent such scenes. we need to close those routes instead of keeping immigration out of sight. we are rewarding the smugglers and that must be stopped now. people are stuck in centuries-long asylum procedures with uncertain outcomes. or at least we know what the outcome is: it's usually negative. instead of facilitating the passage of illegal migrants into european territory, it is time to stop it. i hear a lot of voices that migration needs to start - we need to be in solidarity. but if we look at all the countries in europe, support for immigration is really declining. if i speak for the netherlands: it's full. there is a majority of the people of the netherlands who are fed up with immigration. i therefore call on the council and the commission to provide the european border and coast guard agency frontex with all the means it can to continue its efforts to return illegal migrants to their countries of origin.
madam president, today marks a very important moment. a moment followed by many people in europe and around the world: the inauguration of the united states’ president joe biden. it is also a moment of hope: of hope that our transatlantic ally and partner has finally returned and is ready to cooperate in a way that today’s situation asks of us. recent events have shown that the us is suffering from great polarisation, which this president will have to address. this will not be an easy task, and this is also something that we in europe are all too familiar with. yes, the united states has changed, but so did europe. so of course, our transatlantic cooperation will not be the same as a few decades ago. but having said that, i do hope that the biden administration will join us in our ambitions and will join forces to promote multilateralism, rule-based trade, provide security and fight climate change. with that, i wish president biden and vice—president harris all the strength, wisdom and courage in the years to come.
madam president, i would like to welcome prime minister costa to this house. leaving the turmoil of 2020 behind us, we look forward into 2021. with the start of vaccination programmes throughout the european union, there’s finally some light at the end of the tunnel, and that gives us hope. but at the same time, we are not there yet. but together, as president von der leyen mentioned, we can get through this. i believe that only together can we get through this. with the start of 2021, we also welcome the new presidency. although the covid—19 health crisis will keep dominating the agenda, we also have to look beyond this crisis. renew europe shares the ambitions of the portuguese presidency to deliver on key issues, such as the green and digital transition, a strong recovery of the european economy, strengthening the role of the eu in a turbulent world, and making headway with the conference on the future of europe. we also underline the priority to make progress on the new agreement on migration and asylum. europe needs a comprehensive migration policy that looks internally at the challenges we face, but crucially, also with an external focus. we need to have good solid partnerships with countries of origin and transit to address and tackle our illegal and, above all, dangerous routes of migration to the european union. how is this presidency going to keep pressure on this process? with the digital transition moving forward, we must not forget to respect and defend the fundamental rights of users, the protection of our democracy and ensure a level playing field for our businesses. the digital services act is a matter of priority for renew, and my message to the portuguese presidency is that we now need to deliver and create a safer digital space.
madam president, a presidency comes with celebrations and joy but also with responsibilities and opportunities, especially where member states are divided and are not willing to achieve progress. on two topics, i urge you to take decisive action. one is to fight discrimination. the black lives matter movement shows that in europe too many people still feel excluded from society and are discriminated against. twelve years ago, the commission proposed a horizontal equal-treatment directive to make sure that equal treatment applies to everyone in all situations. the parliament swiftly adopted the proposal but it has been blocked in the council up until now, so i urge you to take the lead to try to unblock this important file. another blocked file is the start of the negotiations with north macedonia. for years now we have imposed requirements for this moment on them and the country did a tremendous job to meet all of them, and now one member state misuses its eu membership to solve a bilateral dispute. i urge you to put pressure on bulgaria to lift its blockade, and to restore the credibility of the eu regarding the western balkans. their citizens deserve it.
i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. the coronavirus pandemic has caused a severe economic and consequently social crisis in the world and in europe, reflected in a deep decline in gdp, even double-digit in the countries of the south of the european union, as well as a double-digit increase in unemployment. the eu's response is the financial framework for 2021-2027, the recovery fund, and the trillions of euros of public aid already provided by member states to their businesses. i would like to express the hope that this reconstruction fund will be ratified quickly in the 27 member states. if this does not happen, it may turn out to be a paper fund in 2021, and this will not allow, especially the countries of the south of the european union, to get out of recession. and finally, the issue of public aid. and indeed -- as i said -- it's already in the trillions of euros, but it's very uneven. richer countries can afford it, less wealthy countries can afford less public aid. this will of course cause distortions in the eu's single market and companies from less prosperous countries will have serious difficulties in competing.
president, commissioner, minister, every plenary week we debate in this parliament matters that have no place here. this week, too. social policy and employment are not eu affairs. these are national matters par excellence, and for good reason: this type of policy must be close to the people, made within the member states. in my case: for dutch people, by dutch people. i appreciate the efforts of my colleagues here, but the reality is that you spend a lot of time on initiatives that fall outside the eu's treaty legal basis. agreements made on competences between the eu and the member states are drawn up until brussels has a foot in the door in another policy area. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the way this institution works. and a crisis is always used for that. brussels' meddling is undermining our national momentum when we need it now more than ever to overcome the coronavirus crisis.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear commissioner schmit, thank you for being here today, dear colleagues, today we are discussing the report on access to decent and affordable housing for all, because we are facing a housing crisis in europe. from paris to warsaw, dublin to athens, an increasing number of people in the eu are struggling to afford the rising cost of housing. even before the start of the pandemic, one in ten europeans were spending more than 40% of their income on housing. and not only the price, but also the quality of housing is a problem. far too many people in europe are living in overcrowded, damp, poorly-insulated, or otherwise unhealthy homes, with unaffordable utility bills. we can’t just be bystanders; this housing crisis is affecting people from all demographics: young people who are forced to stay with their families longer than they want because they can’t afford a place of their own; people who are thinking of starting a family but are postponing this since they still live in a studio, for which they can only just make the rent; elderly people who would like to move out of their family home but can’t afford to get an adjusted apartment, whilst young families are desperately waiting for a family home to move into. and this is the housing crisis for those that actually have a home, because the sad reality still is that more than 700 000 people sleep rough every night in europe, and this number keeps on rising year after year in the last decade. this report recognises that access to decent and affordable housing is a fundamental right, a right that is guaranteed at eu level. this can’t just remain nice words, colleagues. and as a rapporteur on this topic in the european parliament, it has become clear to me that the european rules today are often better at protecting the making of profit on the housing market than at protecting people who need a roof over their head. this has to change. we need the eu to step up its game and do its part with all the tools it has at its disposal to tackle the housing crisis, side by side with the member states and local level that of are, of course, crucial. the report offers concrete solutions for the commission, the member states, and the local level to take action. and for this, i also want to thank the shadow rapporteurs, with whom i had a very pleasant collaboration. because we can solve the housing crisis if we want to. we can end homelessness by 2030. homelessness is an extreme form of poverty and a violation of human rights. in the coming six months, the commission will propose its action plan on the european pillar of social rights that addresses homelessness in its principle 19. and the topic is high on the agenda of the portuguese presidency. the commission should be bold and dare to propose a social moonshot strategy: an eu level goal together with all the member states to end homelessness by 2030. commissioner schmit, i’m very happy that you’ve already shown your willingness to work on this, and the european parliament with this report makes also a strong call to tackle homelessness once and for all. let’s be partners and put the collaboration platform on homelessness that has been announced to work with a clear and ambitious target. we can also increase investments in affordable housing. since the financial crisis, we have an average annual investment gap in affordable and social housing of eur 57 billion per year. we need to urgently close this gap. we can, on the one hand, ensure that eu prioritise this investment for each budget and that member states prioritise it in their recovery plans. on the other hand, the new fiscal rule book of the eu should allow for more public investment in housing. we can fight climate change, create jobs and tackle energy poverty through housing renovation. we are living through a health crisis; we have an economic and social crisis unfolding; there is a climate emergency. we can tackle all these issues by investing in quality housing through the renovation wave. we know that housing renovation can create two million jobs. this investment in renovation can help kickstart the economy. bad indoor quality, damp housing, mouldiness – all have an important influence on respiratory diseases like covid, so we can improve people’s health through renovation, and on top of that we can get millions of people out of energy poverty. we can stop illegal holiday rentals. in more and more cities, residents are pushed out of their neighbourhoods because it’s more profitable to rent apartments to tourists. many cities feel powerless against these platforms when trying to get rid of illegal hotels. we can give cities more control over short-term holiday rentals through platforms like airbnb. through the digital services act, we have to make sure that these platforms share the necessary data on rentals with cities so that rules on illegal holiday rentals can be enforced. we can make sure houses are to live in. rather than a fundamental right to be guaranteed for all, housing has increasingly been considered only as a market to make profits through speculative acquisitions and through hedge funds and foreign institutional investors such as blackstone, treating housing as a tradable asset. this has a dramatic effect on prices. we can do something about this by checking if the eu rules on real estate transactions and ownership, and put forward proposals to better protect mortgage borrowers from evictions. citizens across europe are struggling and count on us to stand by their side. with an economic and social crisis unfolding, the european parliament will send a strong signal that we are serious about a strong, social europe. that is why this report receives very broad support in the committee on employment and social affairs, and that is why, dear colleagues, i count on your support for this report in plenary as well.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, thank you commissioner, we can already conclude that the pandemic affects women disproportionately in all ways of life, and women are on the front line of the covid-19 pandemic and account for 76% of health-care workers across the eu. women are responsible for most of the informal and unpaid care as well as educational support at home, and women are prone to fall victim to the rising prevalence of domestic violence which has aggravated the already high pre-covid numbers. women are also experiencing difficulties in accessing safe sexual and reproductive health services, as abortion was deemed non—essential, forcing women and girls to seek unsafe abortion elsewhere. and as we find ourselves on the verge of recovering from this crisis, the time has come to decide how we as the european parliament want to shape post-covid europe. do we want women to be equally represented in leadership and decision-making and allow women to be part of the design and implementation of recovery plans? do we take a gender-sensitive approach in our response to the crisis in order to preserve and protect women’s rights? and do we combat domestic violence against women and implement the eu protocols in our emergency response plans? my answer to these questions is yes. because women’s rights are human rights and this pandemic provides an opportunity to make the real progress women and girls deserve, and i count on all of you to help shaping a post-covid europe that is really gender equal. (applause)
madam president, gender equality is not just a grandiose goal, it is not yet a strategy, a policy of the european union; it is a matter of the european union's own citizens. it is a fundamental right, and that right cannot be violated. and we all have a duty and an obligation to defend it. the european union's founding fathers decided to include gender equality in the treaty of rome 64 years ago. the fact that for 64 years the european union has not achieved 100% full equality between men and women is a huge shortcoming and a stigma for the european union itself. it is both offensive and provocative that the european institute for gender equality reports that we are at 65.7%, still halfway to the obvious: equal rights, gender equality, equal pay. 16.3% lower wages for women is the rate recorded in the european union. i believe that the happiest moment of my life will be when i stand before the european parliament, commissioner, and you announce that all this has been implemented 100% for the european union. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and that it is able to take action to combat it. a key and important measure would be to include a gender dimension in the budget; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the gender dimension is included in the 750 billion euro for the recovery fund. we are talking about a digital divide. the digital transition is being done with this money that is being given by european citizens, men and women, and it does not include the gender dimension. but you must also send a stern directive to all the member states: the european union will impose strict sanctions on those who do not implement gender equality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i cannot stand things that are unfair. that's what i'm trying to change. the pay gap. in the netherlands and in the eu, women are paid about 15% less than men for their work. in a working life, that's about 300 000 euros. this is so unfair that in her very first speech, commission president ursula von der leyen promised: in the first 100 days of my mandate, i will make proposals to make pay transparency mandatory. that's great! but we're over a year behind her now, and her promise is nowhere to be found. nowhere. not even if we ask repeatedly. silence is the response so far. i hear the commissioner say today, with all due respect, 'soon'. but it's not on the 2021 agenda. so, commissioner, and mr von der leyen, please answer the simple question: when will the eu pay transparency law come on the table? because that's what all women deserve, and all men deserve that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, covid-19 does not like gender equality either. however, the recovery will only happen if we can harness the female capacity, finally breaking through that glass ceiling that has been talked about for too long. that's why next generation eu will have to ensure that half of the resources are invested in gender policies, as the #halfofit or the right half movements are asking us to do. we will not have any other opportunities to ensure that girls live in a women-friendly society, a society in which there is still too much discrimination. and we, who have the privilege of being in this chamber, have a moral and political duty to set an example, to start a real process of emancipation for women. european funds should be used for services for reconciling work and family, school, training, research, employment and equal pay, which are both the first true form of freedom and autonomy. if we want gender mainstreaming, launched by the first female president of the european commission, to be a real game changer, we must take action with a strong cross-cutting lobbying spirit. the pandemic is the worst crisis europe has faced since the second world war. we need everyone's input to overcome it, especially the women's.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all members for this insightful debate today. we can say that we are really one voice on this important matter. the commission welcomes these reports and discussions and i thank all of you involved for the great work done and for your commitment to gender equality. your suggestions and insights buttress the commission’s work in its fight for equality. we must ensure that every step we take is a step forward towards a more gender—equal europe. i thank you again, and i look forward to a year of work where we shall implement all that we have spoken about today in order to strengthen equality so that we will really have a union of equality.
in writing. we are very pleased that the commission has adopted the communication on an equality union. the commission's gender equality strategy 2020-2025 will be presented in the first 100 days of the commission's term of office. it is a sign of strong political will in implementing eu gender equality policy and a compelling, clear and ambitious policy framework to further women's rights and gender equality and to combat attacks in this area. we support the commission's aim of creating a european union in which people, despite their diversity, do not experience discrimination and structural inequalities. we still have a lot of unresolved issues in the area of gender equality. women continue to earn less than men, their pensions are much lower than men's and they are at risk of poverty in old age. women continue to shoulder the care of dependants and the burden of household work, without being paid for these activities. this is wrong and we need to fix this. the proper implementation of the work-life balance directive is of particular importance and we therefore expect the commission to closely monitor the proper transposition of this directive into the national law of the member states and its proper implementation. the istanbul convention is a great embarrassment for the eu as some member states have not yet ratified it. it sends a very bad signal and undermines our efforts to combat violence against women. we expect the commission to work actively with the member states to complete the ratification process as soon as possible.
in writing. it is clear that the coronavirus pandemic has hit women and the elderly particularly hard. the increase in intimate partner and family violence in europe, especially during periods of social exclusion, is a cause for serious concern. home is not a safe place for everyone. hate speech online is also on an alarming rise, and women and girls are also being subjected to gender-based violence online. all hate speech should be criminalized. the commission's proposals for action in the reports under discussion today include legislation to combat all forms of gender-based violence, an action plan to close the gender pay gap and an action plan to improve pay and working conditions in areas with a strong focus on women, such as health care. an alert system and continuous monitoring of progress in women's rights should be implemented in case of setbacks. the past few years have shown that we cannot take progress towards equality for granted, but must work towards it every day. in europe too, there are forces that seek to undermine the progress already made, for example in the area of sexual health and rights. we expect effective equality actions from the commission, the council and the member state.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in the european parliament three crucial dossiers from the committee on women and gender equality, which cover a wide range of inequalities affecting women in different sectors, setting out important objectives for which we must fight consistently, away from stereotypes and social residues. unfortunately, the pandemic has led to a backlash and its economic consequences are expected to hit women harder than men. of the most serious concern is the reported increase in violence against women across europe, and in particular domestic violence, where victims are locked up with their abusers for weeks or months due to quarantine measures and restrictions on movement. in this context, and as vice-chair of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i call for and consider it imperative that the gender dimension be integrated into the union's new economic instruments to address the crisis in a way that is geared to women's needs. above all, however, i call on all women who are or have been victims of violence or any form of sexual abuse or harassment to courageously report such incidents and criminal acts, without fearing social stigma from diseased consciences and outdated attitudes. our values and culture demand zero tolerance for violence.
author. mr president, commissioner, it is becoming increasingly clear that china is using the draconian new security law in hong kong to silence the democratic opposition and severely restrict the freedoms of the people of hong kong. under the guise of "preventing subversive behavior", anyone who expresses criticism is silenced. how far is this going to go? in china, religious minorities have suffered harshly from prosecutions under the national security law. will this restriction of religious freedoms also become a reality in hong kong? that's our biggest fear. the eu must join hands with the international community and take a strong stand. so don't make an investment deal with vague human rights promises in it at a time when the human rights situation in china is at its lowest point in decades. but take targeted action against all those responsible for the violations of the fundamental rights of hong kongers and chinese.
madam president, the circular economy action plan has the potential to boost our economy, create new jobs and decrease our carbon footprint significantly. the question is, how can it become reality? we can create new products and create new ways to reduce, reuse, recycle and recover materials in our economy. for me, it is essential that we come up with the right legislation to stimulate companies to create business models – circular business models – and extend producers’ responsibility. better designed products that can be reused – circularity by design – or simply made to last, or last longer. this means that we need to have clear targets when it comes to the use and reuse of materials – less on a voluntary basis, and more binding and clear objectives. at the same time, commissioner, we have to identify the current barriers standing in our way, such as obstructing laws, regulations and fiscal rules or the lack of accessibility to financing circular economy ideas and products. the circular economy is how we can do more by wasting less.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0414/97-97/0169 (cns)) (rapporteur: mr de gucht). the polish government, like some parties in this parliament, does not care that this causes women to suffer incredibly physically and mentally. there is simply no respect for women's bodies, no respect for women's welfare and no respect for women's rights in these conservative, anti-feminist movements, including here in parliament. they're pushing their unethical agenda on women's backs. we were able to come together in parliament less than three months ago and condemn this violation of women's rights. but they just keep going. now we see that it's not just words. the judgment has now been officially passed into law by the polish government despite massive street protests. so the polish government has nothing to do with us. it is a new low point in the systematic wave of attacks on women's rights and the rule of law in poland. we cannot accept that a few pseudo-tribunals are going to be operating in european member states, supported by a strong anti-abortion lobby in europe. my question to the commission is: what exactly are you going to do? are we going to see this inhumane policy restrict the fundamental rights of women in poland? i don't think he is. parliament is clear. please don't fund, and support the women's organizations in poland.
madam president, we need to produce more vaccines, we need to do it quickly, and we should be able to do so. the covid-19 vaccine is a vaccine that should belong to all of us. years of public funding, public education and public research are at the core of it. and yes, it is true that pharmaceutical companies developed a vaccine very quickly, but should that be a reason to let them have a monopoly on a vaccine that is our only way to save our economy, save our health systems and, most importantly, save millions of people’s lives? i think it’s very clear that big pharma is exercising its control over the vaccine, as we would expect any big corporation to do. astrazeneca is not delivering on their contractual obligations. pfizer is happily forecasting more than eur 3 billion in profits thanks to the vaccine and there are hardly any license agreements in place with low—income countries. it has already been said several times: ‘no one is safe until everyone is safe’. if this is taken seriously, i call upon the commission and wealthy countries to stop blocking the proposal for a trade related intellectual property rights (trips) waiver, which would ensure that everyone in the world can have fast access to vaccines.
mr. president, it's simple, we want as many vaccines as possible as soon as possible. this means that there must be cooperation, both between the pharmaceutical industry and the government and within the pharmaceutical industry. the licences must be shared with other producers so that production can be carried out in more places and we can achieve the main objective together: vaccines for everyone. if pharmaceutical companies don't want to give up their prescriptions and data, we need to take a strong stand and force them to do so. we can't rely on a handful of pharmaceutical companies while we're trying to beat a virus. the vaccines were developed with public money from all of us. so it is only logical that we should have a say in this. we have the ability to produce in more places in europe and we can enforce this legally. this legislation not only exists, but was even created for situations like this. if we do not take advantage of these opportunities during the current crisis, when will we?
mr. chairman, big tech is too powerful, and its power must be broken. citizens who interfere in public debate are digitally directed in a certain direction or even silenced through selective algorithms and moderation. that is unacceptable. social media platforms are the soapboxes of the 21st century: a platform where anyone can voice their opinion, however controversial, unwelcome or contrary. the debate must therefore be free to take place both online and offline, without interference from any public authority and without respect for borders. this is enshrined in article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and is a fundamental principle which must always be respected in this house. we must fight illegal content, child pornography and incitement to violence, but protect freedom of expression. the only filter function in the vast spectrum of opinion should not be determined by the eu or big tech oligarchs with a political agenda, but by the power of public debate itself.
madam president, whether you are a political activist, drag queen or the president of the united states, if we let private companies like twitter and facebook decide if you can speak freely, we are endangering our democratic society. these same big corporations who have profited for years from the large—scale spread of misinformation are now acting as referees of our public debates. let me be clear: incentivising platforms to delete even more is not the solution. this only reinforces their current power over our free speech. we have to tackle the root causes. a small number of very large and powerful platforms are controlling our public debate and amplifying fake news and hate on a large scale, specifically targeting certain people for profit. let’s be ambitious in tackling this in the dsa and dma. who can say what, where and when should not be up to ceos and shareholders. not private companies but our democratic laws should determine the boundaries of our freedoms. not big tech but judges should decide what is illegal or not. we need to take the power over our freedom of expression out of the hands of private companies and place it firmly back in the hands of the people and our democratic institutions.
we are witnessing the emergence in the european union of a harsh measure that deprives women of the right to decide about their own mental and physical health. the polish government has recently decided to deny women the right to legal abortion of a fetus which is not viable. an entire government decides to force one woman to terminate a hopeless pregnancy. the european parliament and the european court of human rights have ruled on this and found that it violates the human rights of women. i have also learned that marta lempart, the opposition leader who led the protests in poland, is facing an eight-year prison sentence. this is no coincidence. the opposition in poland is being silenced step by step. it is now up to the commission and the member states to speak out and to stand up for the rights of women in poland.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the carbon border adjustment mechanism is an important mechanism within the european green deal. in order to decarbonise our industry, we need to have the right instruments in place to incentivise and stimulate our industry to invest in green solutions and, at the same time, make sure we do not have unfair competition from outside the eu. we need a level playing field. moreover, the carbon border adjustment mechanism sends a clear message to producers outside the eu: if you want your products to enter the eu market, you need to embrace our standards. this will have a significant effect on global co2 emissions. but let me be clear. the main objective of this mechanism is to decrease global co2 emissions and the fundamentals of this report are fair. i want to thank the rapporteur for that. he clearly really listened to all parties and tried to make a good compromise. we want to wait for the commission’s impact assessment to see what the best way is to implement this mechanism. however, at the same time, parliament has set some clear conditions. with the introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism, we have to reassess the free allowances within the emissions trading system. we must avoid double protection. therefore we, as socialists and democrats, support a gradual, yet rapid, phasing-out of the free allowances when the carbon border adjustment mechanism is installed. it must be done in a transparent and predictable way so that we can give industry, in the eu and outside the eu, time to adjust. we have reached a balanced text on this in the negotiations and we note that the june package, the ‘fit for 55’ package, is coming with a lot of climate legislation. we have to work together in parliament to pass this legislation successfully. it is clear that some groups still have to decide if they want to be on the right side of history when it comes to battling climate change. but, unlike some political groups in this house, most industries have made the decision to decarbonise and are welcoming the european green deal. now they need clear legislation and investments to help achieve our goals.
mr president, the conversion of the electoral programmes in the netherlands shows that the two parties which call themselves the greenest and most sustainable are deteriorating the competitive position of industry and production will be moved abroad. it's not good for the climate. european industry provides 30 million jobs and at the same time produces the materials we need for our economy of the future. we do not want to be dependent on other parts of the world for this. yes, we want the cleanest and most sustainable industry in europe. but at the same time, our companies have to survive on a global scale, competing with parties that do not have to abide by the same strict rules. that's why this border carbon tax, if we implement it properly, is a great idea combined with smart industrial policy. only then will we keep the jobs of the future in europe, ensure that we are not becoming dependent on others and actually do something about the climate.
rapporteur. – madam president, i want to share with you a few recent headlines: ‘widespread uyghur forced labour in china region that supplies a fifth of the world’s cotton’; ‘massive damage done to curaçao coral reef: construction company blamed’; ‘report reveals: more than 6 500 migrant workers have died in qatar’s world cup prep’. the stories behind these headlines are seemingly unrelated, but they share one thing: in all these cases, european companies were involved and contributed to harm through their activities. i want us, this week, to take a first step towards righting those wrongs. i want us to ensure better access to justice for victims in third countries. and i also want to make sure that european legislation can be applied even if the harm was done in china, qatar or curaçao, if it transpires that a european mother company has failed to act responsibly. at the moment, that is far too difficult, and if you think about it, this is entirely non—intuitive. if a regular citizen breaks someone’s window, even accidentally, i can assure you they have no smokescreens to hide behind. but in international law there are plenty. while a large company has the resources and the brightest legal minds at its disposal, those affected often lack the money and means to seek remedy. we live in a world in which businesses so inclined can still shift their adverse social and environmental impacts to the most vulnerable people and places on the planet. and on international women’s day i cannot help but notice that these impacts are not gender neutral: women face a higher likelihood of poverty, sexual abuse and violence within the supply chains that we are now talking about. one of the problems is that in a global economy doing the right thing does not give a business a competitive advantage. and i refuse to believe that that is something we simply have to accept – that deforestation or forced labour are part and parcel of global supply chains. what we’re dealing with here is a lack of commonly enforced rules for responsible business conduct and the absence of a framework for supply-chain liability. it is no surprise that the debate on this has become more prominent through the years. the un and the oecd have courageously led the hard-fought development of guidance for businesses and pushed the envelope. but the time for voluntary standards is now over. according to a recent survey by the commission only a third of respondents said that some form of due diligence was carried out. that same study showed that a majority of businesses recognise the value of new eu rules. indeed, let’s not forget the thousands of businesses that are already doing the right thing but that do not feel supported by current rules. those businesses understand that mandatory standards are the only path to a level playing field and to business certainty. they also understand that modern consumers have high standards, and that doing business in the 21st century means doing business responsibly. all of this is why, over the past few months, we have been working on an ambitious law that would apply to anyone wanting to sell their goods or services on the internal market, including non-eu companies. that law requires of companies their best efforts to identify and address adverse impacts on human rights, the environment and governance, and this in their entire value chain, inside and outside the union. the agreement we reached ensures the involvement of ngos and local communities, and stresses the role of trade unions. for us to transform supply chains in a meaningful way, due diligence should be exercised by all companies with risks in their supply chain. but we have paid special attention to smes and included only those that do face risks or are listed on the stock exchange. obligations should be proportional and reasonable, meaning smaller companies should do what can reasonably be expected of them, in accordance with their means. but exempting smes altogether flies in the face of our joint goals. a small company can cause harm too. and so it is risks rather than size we should focus on. yes, the rules should be workable, smes have indeed come to tell me that, and i agree with them. but they have not come to ask me for an exemption, since they know that that could have a chilling effect on their business. they are often part of the supply chains of larger companies and they would risk being cut out. an exemption would also make it harder once smes grow or want to secure financing for growth and i therefore urge members to vote against the amendment seeking to exempt smes. the european parliament has the chance this week to become a leader in responsible business conduct. for businesses, we are creating a level playing field and legal clarity. for consumers, we are ensuring fair products. for workers, we are enhancing protection. for victims we are improving access to justice. and for the environment, we are taking a step that is very long overdue. i would like to warmly thank my colleagues from my group, but also from across all groups, for their cooperation and commissioner reynders for his availability throughout the process. i am convinced that this report, if adopted, can be a first joint step towards a european gold standard for sustainable, responsible business.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, if we want to ensure that future generations also grow up in prosperity, we will have to invest in growth now. and that is exactly what this investeu programme is going to do. we're going to invest in small and medium-sized businesses. we're going to invest in innovation and we're going to invest in infrastructure. i am particularly pleased that we are going to give more room to investment in strategic sectors and critical infrastructure, both in transport and in digital. because we have seen in this crisis that we are too dependent on other parts of the world for many things and we have to start preventing that in the future. at the same time, we will be monitoring the implementation of this programme closely, because every euro in the economy must be earned first and every loan taken out must be repaid. that is why it is important in this programme that every euro is spent on actually strengthening our economy. in doing so, we are not passing the problems on to future generations, but are laying the foundations for a bright future now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. george orwell, back in 1949, showed what a stifling society we end up in when the government wants to control everything and dares not leave anything to the people's own responsibility. that's why we shouldn't want mandatory camera surveillance. yes, we know there are problems with the landing obligation. but please let's not solve that by stacking control on control over and over again. let's go back to the root of the problem: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the landing obligation. we are not going to be able to do that, and i am not going to be able to do that.
madam president, the european union has decided to respond to the crisis with massive investment in the sectors most affected by the pandemic. it's the creative industries and culture after the airlines. the european people's party says we want 'jobs, jobs, jobs'. it is this sector that generates 5% of gdp and employs more than 8% of the population on average. these are people who volunteer in many projects, in solidarity projects, and help to inspire motivation and good mood, even when the sun is not shining. the european parliament recommended that at least 2% of the recovery facility be allocated to these sectors. therefore, i cannot agree with the czech government's proposal, which allocates less than 1% in its national plan. this is unacceptable. we need to increase. and another huge impact is on education. on the one hand, we have children who are increasingly dependent on social media during lockdown and have perfect access to digital technology. and we have areas and children and parents who have no access to education at all. it's up to 20% in some areas. the european parliament again recommends that up to 20% be allocated from the recovery fund to these children and to equipment and training. the member states must therefore allocate resources for digital equipment and skills complementation. in short, everyone must be able to implement quality online learning. that would mean coming out of this crisis stronger and using it for a better opportunity.
madam president, commissioner, this crisis has certainly caught us unawares, it has come here unexpectedly and has called into question all the principles, all the agreements, all the foundations on which europe has been built in recent years; agreements which in some cases we believe have been wrong, as was the response to the financial crisis a decade ago. however, this time the political consensus needed to set up a european investment programme financed by common debt has been reached, and the european central bank did not have to wait for the situation to get bad enough to do what was necessary, as draghi said, but from the outset the ecb set up a debt purchase programme to facilitate the financing. in any case, and let me share my feelings with you, this crisis is already very long, perhaps longer than we anticipated a year ago, certainly longer. and the vaccination process is also being too slow. after the third wave we've had this winter, we really can't rule out any future scenarios. the european response, which has been successful and timely so far, must therefore be prepared to be even greater, because we do not know what will happen, and the european central bank, but above all the commission, must be prepared to step up expansionary fiscal policy if necessary.
president, the economic impact of covid is particularly affecting small and medium-sized enterprises. many retailers and catering companies had to close their doors, while the big e-commerce parties achieved record revenues. corona itself is not fatal for smes, but the governments that continue to impose restrictive measures are. many entrepreneurs are therefore unable to recover even part of their costs. where entrepreneurs come up with solutions, the government sees problems first. access to capital for smes is still very difficult because of the bureaucratic rules imposed on banks here in brussels. this is a double blow to smes. brussels must not lose itself in theoretical policy plans. give entrepreneurs back their economic freedom and reduce the regulatory burden. i have already argued here for the removal of 30% of the rules for smes. that's the best plan for our economy.
mr president, in spring 2011 i visited the first syrian refugees in south-east turkey. they were worried about their families and eager to return home. but, since then, many people have died, many cities have been destroyed, many hopes have vanished. and even the lack of food and shelter is becoming alarming. we need to increase humanitarian aid in the kurdish region, including idlib, too, but we also need a sustainable solution. people need and deserve a future. and this is also true for the refugees in lebanon, jordan and turkey. with the eu-turkey statement, we locked up the refugees in turkey. not only can they not return, but they cannot easily build a future in turkey. the eu should share this responsibility, step up support for syrian citizens wherever they are, and invite the most vulnerable to our own hosting societies and begin a strategy of rebuilding syria. ten years of limbo is harmful. let’s give syrian citizens their lives back inside, but also outside, syria.
mr president, mr borrell, the war in syria has become one of the biggest catastrophes of our times a terrible and inhuman conflict with many internal warring parties, exacerbated by external actors that have prolonged hostilities by deepening their military involvement and providing money, fighters and weapons. the interests of influential third states and a divided international community let down those protesters that, ten years ago, simply demanded freedom and democracy to the advantage of the criminal assad regime. now, we are still far from a political solution that brings lasting peace in syria. the upcoming fifth brussels conference should be an opportunity to advance towards this goal, and i would like to address you, mr borrell, with two basic demands. first, the need to involve all ethnic and religious minorities in building this future, including the kurdish people who have been making a tremendous sacrifice under extremely harsh conditions. and secondly, the need to ensure accountability for the many war crimes that have been committed.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, after listening to everyone i agree with what you have been saying, but the important thing is not to repeat the same figures or how many more people have been killed, how many people are refugees, the end of impunity, the fact that foreign troops have to leave, etc. the repetition of wishful thinking does not change reality. let’s try to be realistic. the european union cannot solve this conflict alone. the united nations special envoy pedersen has made it clear that a common understanding among the astana guarantors and like-minded western stakeholders is only necessary if the conflict is to be resolved. we are ready to provide for a forum of this type, but we know that it will be very difficult to hold talks. but without an international understanding there is no solution, and even an international understanding will not be sufficient on its own. so the only solution for the time being is to maintain pressure for a transition in the way syria is governed for real change; for the assad regime to be held accountable for a decade of brutal war and repression. but this is not going to happen just because you invoke them. we are going to hold this brussels conference on syria at the end of this month. it is an opportunity to revitalise the united nations process, and it should be successful in raising pledges to meet the dramatic humanitarian needs for the syrian people. let’s start with this. let’s start by collecting the resources needed to help in practical terms the people in need here and now. i will do my best to push for this conference to be a success, but i am afraid that once again the european union will be the most important actor the one that brings the most resources. and there is a certain fatigue among the international community to continue supporting this defeat before the syrian people after ten years of pledging. i hope that you will participate in making this conference a success and i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your constant support and for your demand for the need for justice and accountability. but this will not come from demands alone. we have to put political agreements among the actors on the table. this is the only way out. assad will not leave because you ask him to do so. we make mistakes, yes. ten years of suffering says yes. the important thing is how to get out of this. it has to be step by step. we have to be looking for a consensus among the most important actors. if not, we will not be able to resolve it. don’t ask the european union to solve what we cannot solve alone. but let’s start by bringing the resources needed to help the people in need, and let’s work for the united nations to open humanitarian access to the people in idlib, or at least to continue keeping open the points of access that are still open. and i repeat: let’s also engage politically with the actors present in this war in order to reach a consensus to end this war. but this is not going to happen just by asking for it.
in writing. – i feel the urge to stress that today, ten years after the uprising, more than 4 million syrian civilians and refugees are victims of a conflict they have no part in. among our primary purposes as a democratic, peaceful, and safe union, it is the duty to prevent and end wars, bring countries together, find diplomatic solutions, and save lives. the eu has to be ready to sustain syrian citizens by directing its reconstruction funds to the rebuilding of the country, to ensure a safe return home for refugees, to relocate the missing, and finally pursuing punishment for the many war crimes against humanity.
in writing. the horrifying and devastating syrian civil war has been going on for ten years. more than 5.6 million syrians have fled their homeland since the conflict began, with some four million people given asylum in turkey. the situation in syria is extremely critical, the country is divided into several zones of interest, and is on the verge of economic collapse, which threatens to trigger new waves of migration. the covid-19 pandemic has added to the challenges. a comprehensive diplomatic process is needed to resolve the situation, which has now become an international conflict. in addition, support should be urgently mobilised to improve the living conditions of syrian citizens in syria and neighbouring countries, so that they can stay in their homeland or close to home and not leave for europe at the risk of their own lives and those of their families. the younger generations in syria will be needed to rebuild the country. to this end, the fifth brussels conference on syria should be organised as soon as possible in order to provide appropriate support. support to syrian christian communities, which have suffered particularly badly in the conflict, is of paramount importance. hungary has provided substantial funding under the hungary helps programme to christian missions in damascus, aleppo and homs, which provide care for internally displaced persons, help rebuild and operate destroyed schools, and support initiatives aimed at enabling displaced families to return to syria. the union should launch similar humanitarian projects to help christians.
the war in syria has now been going on for ten years. millions of syrians have fled the country. it's a terrible situation. for the refugees, but also for the land they left behind. because they took important knowledge and skills with them on their flight. many syrians have sought refuge in the netherlands, sweden and denmark. looking for protection, but also looking for a better life. we understand that. last week denmark declared certain areas of syria to be safe zones. 94 syrian refugees have had their temporary residence permits revoked. the danish minister, a social democrat and himself the son of an ethiopian refugee, has been clear from the start. temporary residence permits shall be withdrawn where, after careful consideration, it is considered that protection is no longer required. the netherlands, but also other eu member states, should follow suit. temporary protection must not become permanent migration. it is only human to be clear about this to migrants. a residence permit holder should therefore not be eligible for a long-term resident permit after three years, as is now proposed in the migration pact. this opens the door wide to a permanent migration route, with all the adverse consequences that entails.
madam president, sheltering in place has been the best way to protect ourselves from covid-19. and despite the fact that homelessness has increased by 70% in the last 10 years, we collectively show that if we want to we can provide people with a home. ending homelessness is a matter of political will. the european parliament has on several occasions, and most recently in the report on access to decent and affordable housing, called for a european target to end homelessness in the eu by 2030. and the commission acknowledges this call but decided not to include it in the goals it proposed. homelessness is an extreme form of poverty and a violation of human rights that we simply cannot accept. i therefore welcome the collaboration platform and the fact that the portuguese presidency has put, as the prime minister said, the response to homelessness high on its agenda. ahead of the porto social summit, i therefore call on portugal to push for including a sub-target on homelessness under the poverty reduction targets. together we can end homelessness.
mr president, while discussing the backsliding media freedom in europe, we mostly address developments in hungary and poland, and rightly so, but the lack of an adequate response creates an atmosphere of impunity and has inspired more and more other member states. for instance, slovenian prime minister janša has opened war on free media, publicly attacking journalists, cutting funds of critical broadcasters, and amending public media legislation. journalists describe an extremely hostile environment and fear. in its rule of law report, the commission observes a high level of political influence over media companies in the country. it has criticised janša’s attacks, but this is far from enough. the commission should use its wide range of tools to tackle this issue – rule of law-related instruments, but also state aid rules for instance: be creative. because without free media, a real democracy simply cannot function. i urge you not to shy away and prove yourself as a guardian of the treaty to protect free societies and free citizens. (applause)
madam president, this month marks the second anniversary of the first polish lgbtiq–free zone, and since then, over 100 places in poland followed; a disgrace on european soil. it is a sad truth that lgbtiq people still face discrimination, hatred and violence, not only in poland but all across europe. and i can stand here and be very angry about it. and i am. but that won’t help the transgender woman who is forced to undergo sterilisation to have her gender legally recognised. and that won’t help the gay dad who loses his parental rights when he crosses a european border. and that won’t help the non–binary child who is forced by their parents to undergo conversion therapy in order to become normal. no, what would actually help these people are real and tangible changes, whether it be through new legislation, better enforcement or infringement procedures. so let’s take concrete action now to protect our people and our values. the european union i call my home is an lgbtiq freedom zone.
madam president, 70 days: that is the number of days since the new rule of law regulation entered into force. and in those 70 days, hungary’s last large independent radio station was taken off the air, and of course, those 70 days were used by the polish government to continue to undermine the independence of its judges. every day the commission waits to make use of the powers that it now has is another day lost for the citizens of poland and hungary – indeed, the citizens that my colleague ms reintke referred to. the commission has made little progress so far in flexing its muscles, and that worries me. the european parliament, from its side, will do everything it can to make sure that the rule of law is upheld. from our side, we’ll make sure that the political and legal measures at our disposal are used if the commission does not act rapidly on poland and hungary, and that includes legal action for the failure to act under article 265 of the treaty. but i urge the commission not to let it come to that because, if it takes its instructions from individual governments rather than from jointly-agreed european law, it then, of course, contributes to the very problem that it should now be fighting: the erosion of the rule of law in europe.
mr president, today rural areas are facing multiple major difficulties which have the effect of depopulation and abandonment of land. climate change, the covid-19 crisis, financial instability are just a few of these problems. the european union must turn its attention to these areas if we are to reverse the trend and build stable and sustainable communities. it is imperative that we devise policies and strategies that give towns and villages a long-term vision. broadband internet connections are the cornerstone of economic transformation, but also for attracting young people to rural areas. young people are the present and the future. only with their help can we give villages the sustainability they need. rural areas and farmers play a vital role in protecting the environment and biodiversity. the european union must protect farmers so that they can contribute to combating climate change, managing natural resources sustainably and preserving landscapes across europe. but the most important thing is to maintain its capacity to ensure food security and quality products at affordable prices. member states should use all available mechanisms to attract non-agricultural investment in rural areas. this will depressurize urban areas and will certainly improve the quality of life in both urban and rural areas. improving the quality of life is a common objective of the european union to be achieved through all its policies, not just the common agricultural policy.
mr. president, we all know the serious effects of this pandemic. we're talking about overcrowded hospitals, we're talking about medical staff depletion, we're talking about thousands and thousands of patients who are unfortunately losing the battle with this virus. the reality is, however, that this bleak picture is just the tip of the iceberg. there are entire rural communities living totally cut off from basic health care, quality education, conditions considered to be basic in 21st century europe. there are millions of european citizens living in the countryside and we must show them our solidarity. in the country i know best, romania, studies show that 40 percent of rural children have not attended school in the last year. that is why i encourage the organisation of a broad public debate on the future of our villages. i was responsible in the european commission for the urban agenda and i know how much this agenda has contributed to improving the lives of local people and their development. i am campaigning for the urgent drafting of the rural agenda, i am campaigning for the removal of those conditionalities which do not allow small communities to use projects with european funds from the agricultural fund, from the cohesion fund. i'll support as much as i can... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, it is a fine example of hypocrisy to debate this oral question on a long-term vision of rural areas, for we are not exaggerating in the face of the greatest and most genuine ecological disaster in europe, namely rural desertification, which in less than 60 years has reversed a slow process of over 20 000 years, that of territorial conquest and exploitation by nomads who gradually settled down. this decline, which affects 70% of europe's surface and the whole of its food chain, is clearly due not to a natural disaster but to ultra-liberal, directive-oriented policies pursued by the same political groups, the greens in the lead, who are now shocked by the consequences of their decisions. so yes, the future of rural areas must be made a great cause, not european but national, since the european union is genetically in a globalised, market-oriented and technocratic vision. i thank the commissioner for his fresh approach to this problem, but only the states, of course, in cooperation with each other, can ensure realistic and effective land use planning for local people, build employment synergies in local sectors based on public services in line with the needs of the cities, structure the future of rural areas and, above all, pave the way for 21st century farmers who are aware of the past and are focused on technologies for the future. it is about our food self-sufficiency and our social cohesion.
mr president, we often talk about the green deal in this house, but is it not high time we started talking about an 'agri deal'? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. successors are cutting back because they no longer see any prospect of continuing the business. a europe that does not produce enough food is also a geopolitical risk. the consumer, the environment and animal welfare are worse off. a longer-term vision with clear and consistent policies is therefore urgently needed. a vision that is based on fair prices, increased competitiveness, reduced regulatory pressure, sufficient space for farmers and a wide margin for innovation. if we can make such a deal, i am sure that our countryside in europe will have a great future. thank you, sir.
madam president, vaccinations first, of course. our societies are tired of the lockdowns. companies need to restart their businesses. people long for more freedoms. but if we do not restore our free movement in a harmonised, gradual and also responsible way, we will face health risks, chaos, insecurity and discrimination. we therefore welcome the commission proposal for a digital green certificate if it guarantees non-discrimination, the highest standards of data protection and if it only applies when strictly necessary. as a parliament, we should be able to improve these safeguards, in line with the prerogatives of the different committees. we must be ready for the summer holidays and adopt the regulation in the june session, but we can do that in a normal but accelerated procedure, and this is why the urgent procedure, stripping us of our parliamentary scrutiny, is not necessary. on the contrary, the far-reaching decision we are about to take needs democratic control and legitimacy.
madam president, yesterday our group already welcomed the proposal for a digital green certificate, as we believe that a harmonised approach on lifting the borders is necessary to avoid health-risk chaos, insecurity and arbitrariness. the green certificate could thus pave a better way to restored freedom of movement. we also share your view that we need to expedite this harmonisation if you want to be ready for the summer season, to allow for holidays abroad, but more specifically to save tourist industries from a second summer without revenues. but what we do not share with you is the view that the urgent procedure has to be triggered in order to reach a vote in the june part-session, because as the ‘rule 163 procedure’ sets aside the normal parliamentary procedure, it can only be justified if it’s absolutely necessary. and this is not the case, because if we use the accelerated procedure of rule 49 we can treat the proposal with exactly the same speed while also maintaining our democratic role. and i can tell you, commissioner, that role is also necessary. the proposed regulation may serve our freedom, but it also touches upon rights and freedoms that are dear to us. as representatives of the citizens, we need to ensure that the green certificate is non-discriminatory, is easily available, that it meets the highest standards of data protection and is only required when strictly necessary. as a parliament, we have the responsibility to ensure and improve these safeguards, and that is why the prerogatives of the different committees have to be respected. as said, we agree that the certificate must be ready for the summer season and that adoption at the june part-session is necessary, but we can do that perfectly well in a responsible way through a normal, but accelerated, procedure. and that is why the urgent procedure deprives us of parliamentary scrutiny competences. it’s not necessary. on the contrary, the far-reaching decision we are about to make and the societal support for it, require democratic control and legitimacy. parliamentary scrutiny is inherent to our checks and balances in the making of eu legislation, and indeed commissioner, these are exceptional circumstances. but even in times of crisis, we need those checks and balances. rigidity? no. carefulness? yes. our group will therefore vote against the request for the urgent procedure.
madam president, already 12 years ago the commission recommended to start the negotiations with north macedonia and since then the country has done a tremendous job regarding eu integration. i would like to thank the rapporteur and my shadow rapporteurs for their great cooperation. the report rightly commends north macedonian authorities for the deep and many, and sometimes painful, reforms and it encourages them to further improve the rule of law and anti-corruption policies, to support civil society, strengthen women’s rights and combat discrimination of minorities, including lgbtiq, roma and also the bulgarian minority. north macedonia of course has to work on regional cooperation and resolving bilateral disputes, and the appointment of a special envoy to bulgaria is a sign of willingness, but a solution requires cooperation from both sides. however, this bilateral conflict which is unfortunately ongoing cannot stand in the way of keeping our promise by kicking off the negotiations talk without further delay. north macedonian citizens have waited long enough. they deserve that we deliver. let us grant them perspective. let us prove our credibility.
mr president, well, i will try, and because i’m not here as a member of the s&d to deny the deep corruption patterns in malta, as identified in the commission’s 2020 rule-of-law report. and i’m not here either to overstate the progress that has been made, even though the commission’s assessment is tentatively positive. i am here to stand up for journalists who must be able to do their work without being pestered by defamation lawsuits and certainly without physical attacks or assassination attempts. and i’m also here to stand up for justice and the rule of law. the council of europe, the venice committee, the commission recommendations on malta, they should all be implemented urgently. no country is immune to the temptations of power and the serious allegations of money laundering, tax evasion and corruption should be recognised by all here. and lastly, i am here because far too often our debates in this room do not seem to originate from genuine concerns over our union and the rule of law. and having studied together with andrew caruana, i feel very strongly that he and his brothers deserve better than what we tend to provide them with. i’m here to remind colleagues that daphne caruana’s family are not helped by the political games that are played on both sides of this house and to remind those that need reminding that their suffering is still real.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, in the past years we have seen mass surveillance systems used against uyghurs in china, spyware used against the people in hong kong and surveillance technology used during the arab spring. these are all examples of emerging technologies that fell into the wrong hands. the new expert rules we are discussing today, the so—called update of the dual—use regulation, come not a moment too soon, because we should never allow european technologies to be used in a way that goes directly against our democratic values. not only can dual—use goods – be it traditional or emerging technologies – be used against europe, these goods can also be used by repressive regimes against their own citizens, journalists and political opponents. with rapid technological developments in the fields of cyber we are encountering an increasing number of grave human rights violations with these technologies. even this past year, it was reported that three european companies exported surveillance technology, such as facial recognition, to china. we must be clear that eu companies and technology should never be or become part of the problem. so it is an important success that this update focuses on human rights risks and adds cyber—surveillance items to the export control regime. and it is good that we leave room for flexibility to add new emerging technologies in the future. these are good first steps, as the rapporteur said, but we do have to continue monitoring this regulation closely and be ambitious in order to keep it up to date and effective. by not letting goods or technologies leave europe when they can be used against us or against a third country’s own population, i believe these rules will help make the world a safer place for citizens inside and outside the european union.
before i give the floor to commissioner šefčovič, i should like to open the second round of voting. the vote will be taken on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 4.30 to 5.45 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds shall apply. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 5.45 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 7 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by markéta gregorová (a8-0390/2017).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions and also for using very concrete examples of how these technologies can be dangerous in the hands of autocratic or non—democratic regimes – as mr lange, ms kumpula—natri and ms karlsbro demonstrated in their remarks. therefore, as ms schreinemacher has just said, it’s absolutely important that the european parliament take full ownership of this new approach to eu export controls. we have a lot of work ahead of us to develop these new tools and fulfil the promise of the regulation. to answer the rapporteur, ms gregorová, i would like to underline that the commission takes this very seriously, and how you can help us would be with your continuous interest and support in our effort, because i’m sure this will be crucial for the future. because this has to be a collective joint effort involving the parliament, commission and member states within our respective areas of responsibility, and i’m sure that we also have to work very closely with industry and civil society. it is in our strong collective interest to adopt this new approach because we know that dual—use technology poses a real risk to national and international security, and we know that cyber—technologies can lead to human rights violations, as we’ve been reminded by mr bourgeois and mr zoido álvarez. we will now have robust export controls to mitigate these things. exporters will have to follow due diligence obligations. these are real and positive steps forward for the european union, and this gives us a strong platform to engage with our global partners on these issues. so i would kindly ask you, and urge you, to give your full support to an ambitious implementation of the regulation. i believe that we can build on the trust and good collaboration that developed during the negotiations and work closely together to ensure successful implementation. once again, thank you very much for the great work and thank you very much for the excellent cooperation.
the debate is closed. the vote on this dossier will take place at 5.45 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 4.34 p.m.)
(after the results of the vote were announced) in accordance with rule 163 (4) of the rules of procedure, following the outcome of the votes on the two urgent motions for the adoption of a digital green certificate union citizens and a digital green certificate third-country nationals, i would like to inform you that the debates and votes will take place on wednesday 28 april 2021. the deadlines for amendments will be fixed at a later date.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 march 2021.
following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda: monday the vote on the report by mr toussaint will take place before the vote on the report by mr dzhambazki. wednesdaythe statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'china's counter-sanctions against eu entities, members of the european parliament and national members' is anticipated and will be discussed as a second item in the afternoon, following the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'russia: the case of alexei navalny, the military escalation on the border with ukraine and the russian attack in the czech republic'. thursday the report by mr tinagli on 'administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties as regards the content of electronic registers' is put to the vote. the single vote will take place in the second round of voting. finally, i should like to inform you that the votes are distributed in several rounds taking into account the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes for separate and distinct parts. this distribution could, however, be subject to change. information on the distribution of votes in different rounds is available on the european parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. the agenda is therefore approved. i would like to inform the house that i have received a point of order, mr freund has the floor.
no, mr freund, you are an expert and you know that we refer to the financial regulation, in particular article 118 (9). as you know, paragraph 9 clearly states that the reports and findings of the internal auditor, as well as the report of the union institution concerned, are only accessible to the public after the internal auditor has validated the measures taken to implement them. for us, of course, this is a reference which has enabled us to take the decisions we have taken. before i begin the debate and vote today, i would like to give the floor to mr delli, who has asked to speak under rule 159 (4) of the rules of procedure on his report on 'more efficient and cleaner shipping'.
the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. mr president, madam president, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i am coming here tonight to urge you to take an ambitious position on decarbonising shipping and to convince you to vote in favour of the amendments in plenary. with this report, i propose a concrete roadmap to limit emissions from a sector which transports no less than 90% of the goods we consume, and it is not just customs that we pay for these goods, since, in addition to using heavy fuel oil, this activity accounts for 13% of all emissions from the transport sector in europe. given the risks to both climate change and our health, it was urgent to include the maritime sector in the green deal. i would like to say that we have won some good battles on this issue: the implementation of a strategy on zero-emission ports at berth, finally a gradual exit of heavy fuel oil, finally the creation of a zone with controlled emissions in the mediterranean, or european funding for sustainable solutions for a new industry, such as green hydrogen, ammonia, green electricity or propulsion systems, especially sailboats. but these advances will be worthless if this parliament remains silent on the question of the energy transition. the use of fossil fuels such as liquefied natural gas must be considered long-term and not encouraged. financing this dependence is delaying the switch to more sustainable energy sources and, in the face of the health and environmental emergency, we cannot afford to do so. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to vote in favour of the amendments which will be tabled in plenary. we have a golden opportunity: europe has the means to really drive an ecological and energy transition covering the entire life cycle of these ships, from their design to dismantling. you see, it's high time to make ecology practical but real, not just words, but action. so, ladies and gentlemen, wait no longer, it is now or never, and you will see that if you vote for these amendments, the signal will be given not only to the european commission, not only to the council, but will also have an impact on the daily lives of our citizens.
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 25 and 26 march 2021 (2021/2599(rsp)) the statements by the european council and the commission on the outcome of the eu-turkey high-level meeting of 6 april (2021/2641(rsp))
the european council mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for inviting us to present the debriefing of both the visit to turkey and the european council. as you know, i have always had, and have at heart, this strengthening of the links between the different institutions - the european council and the european parliament - through regular european council debriefings. i shall first speak about turkey and our joint visit to ankara, before moving on to the other items on the agenda for the march european council. as you know, relations with turkey have been difficult for many years. we have discussed turkey at the european council eleven times since i took office as president of the european council, which shows the seriousness and the delicate nature of this relationship. in march we adopted a clear, strong declaration, expressing a possible positive agenda, but one which would be progressive, proportionate and reversible, with a clause for the june european council to meet. this statement paved the way for this visit to ankara. with regard to this incident of protocol, i have repeatedly expressed my regret publicly for the situation that has been created - my regret to the president of the commission and to all those who felt offended. the facts are known. the council's protocol team was not given access to the meeting room before the start of the meeting and the commission did not send its protocol team in advance. the teams therefore had no access to the seating arrangements before the start of the meeting. we are committed, ursula von der leyen and i, to ensuring that this situation cannot happen again in the future. we have instructed our protocol and diplomatic teams to do so. i know that these circumstances have caused many of you to think that i should have acted differently at the time. i hear criticism, of course, but at that moment, and without the backlash we all have today, i decided not to react any further so as not to create a political incident which i thought was even more serious, which would have risked ruining months of political and diplomatic preparation and the efforts of all the teams at european level. i naturally feel that the images may have made many women feel offended and i would like to reaffirm my total, complete, absolute commitment to supporting women and supporting gender equality. this is a question i have been able to raise on a regular basis in my political career. in our discussions with president erdoğan, president ursula von der leyen and i had the opportunity to express our strong and firm positions on turkey's withdrawal from the istanbul convention. in the last few days, many of you have written to me or contacted me to suggest that i use this incident to defend even more strongly the role and rights of women, and i wish to take this extended hand. i would like to take advantage of this momentum to try to move forward in a constructive way. for example, to be practical, you can count on my commitment and my best efforts to try to mobilise the member states and try to unblock this proposal for a directive on a better balance between men and women among non-executive directors of listed companies. i am also, of course, ready to engage with you on other priorities, such as the crucial issue of equal pay. the gender pay gap in the european union is over 14%; the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the european union's external relations. i am also prepared to consider the proposal for a possible gender equality council. ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to address the substance of the ankara meeting. the aim of the meeting was to try to bring turkey on a more constructive or at least less negative path with the european union, to try to defuse tensions and to place a clear emphasis on the rule of law, democratic values and human rights. president von der leyen and i have had the opportunity to tell president erdoğan that we are ready to put a positive agenda on the table, but one which is conditional, proportionate and reversible. this requires progress in several areas, including, of course, human rights, but also relations with greece and the cyprus question. we have expressed our deep concern about the rule of law, fundamental rights, withdrawal from the istanbul convention, but also freedom of expression, and the targeting of political parties and the media. it is difficult to envisage extensive cooperation with turkey if negative measures were to continue in these areas. exploratory talks between greece and turkey have begun. discussions on the settlement of the cyprus question are also due to start this week under the auspices of the united nations and we have called on turkey to engage constructively. we also stressed the importance of the union's role as an active observer in this process within the united nations. we have also identified possible pillars for this agenda: first, economic cooperation and the possible modernisation of the customs union; second, the issue of migration, the need to be committed and in good faith on this subject, but also the issue of interpersonal contacts and mobility. the question of turkey's regional role was of course raised, as were foreign affairs and geopolitical issues - for example, the situation in libya, syria and nagorno-karabakh. we were able to raise this issue in the memorandum of understanding signed between turkey and libya on maritime delimitation and recalled the clear position of the european council on this subject. i should like to point out that before this mission to turkey, i had the opportunity to visit libya and tunisia the previous two days. the european council decided that in june the heads of state or government would look again at the eu-turkey relationship in order to consider what further steps we would take on the basis of the progress that could hopefully be made in this relationship between the eu and turkey. as you know, we addressed covid19 as a matter of priority during our discussions. we focused on three crucial areas. first, getting our citizens vaccinated as quickly as possible. some countries raised concerns on vaccine distribution and the imbalances between them. we reaffirmed the principle of sharing vaccines on a pro rata population basis. the question of the governance of the steering board was also raised by leaders. we tasked the coreper to address this issue in a spirit of solidarity and i am glad that a solution was found the week after the european council. second, we discussed preparations for the lifting of restrictions and interoperable digital certificates. you will be discussing digital certificates on wednesday. i hope trilogues will start as soon as possible. thirdly, the international dimension. the eu is a major exporter of vaccines around the globe. at the same time, we decided that we would continue to strengthen our response to the pandemic through a vaccine sharing mechanism in addition to covax. during our meeting, we also had a short information point on russia. i reported on my visits to georgia, moldova and ukraine. we reaffirmed our five guiding principles towards russia and agreed to return to the matter at the next european council meeting. we adopted strong conclusions on digital, the single market and industrial policy and the economy. on digital taxation, we would prefer a global solution in the framework of the oecd but, if necessary, we are ready to move forward on our own. at our euro summit we adopted a framework to continue our common work on the international role of the euro. we will deepen our work around four main pillars: a strong economic base, a sound financial architecture, the digital finance and the green finance. a strong euro will enhance our strategic autonomy, while preserving an open economy. finally, we welcomed president joe biden during our session. it was the first time in over ten years that we have welcomed the president of the united states and we agreed that we must join forces to defeat covid19 and work closely together on vaccines and on supply chains. on climate, we welcomed america's return to the paris agreement. we discussed safeguarding our common values in the digital world and we acknowledged our wish to address geopolitical challenges together. we want to build on our friendship and forge a new transatlantic mind-set, a robust foundation for our renewed cooperation. as you know, together with president biden and president von der leyen, we will have an euus summit in midjune. i believe the european union must realise the level of its ambition and of its achievements, especially on the international scene. we are not as weak as we think or as we say. look at our influence around the world. look at georgia, ukraine or africa. look at how we have influenced other strong nations to be more ambitious on climate. china, brazil, india and the united states are following the european union's example. three years ago in sibiu, only seven prime ministers asked for climate neutrality by 2050 and now carbon pricing has become a topical debate well beyond the european union's borders. look at how we have set global standards for digital. the gdpr is now the global gold standard for privacy. the us is following our example and is ready to work on a digital tax. just last week, the eu was the first in the world to propose binding legislation on artificial intelligence. we are leading by example. the eu is sitting in the driving seat for renewed multilateralism and for pursuing its strategic autonomy, and we can do so much more.
president of the commission. – president sassoli, president michel, honourable members, i am the first woman to be president of the european commission. i am the president of the european commission, and this is how i expected to be treated when visiting turkey two weeks ago – like a commission president. but i was not. i cannot find any justification for how i was treated in the european treaties. so i have to conclude that it happened because i am a woman. would this have happened if i had worn a suit and a tie? in the pictures of previous meetings, i did not see any shortage of chairs. but then again, i did not see any women in these pictures either. many of you will have had quite similar experiences in the past. especially the female members of this house. i’m sure you know exactly how i felt. i felt hurt and i felt alone as a woman and as a european. because it is not about seating arrangements or protocol. this goes to the core of who we are, this goes to the values our union stands for, and this shows how far we still have to go before women are treated as equals, always and everywhere. of course, i know that i am in a privileged position. i am the president of an institution which is highly respected all around the world and, even more important, as a leader i can speak up and make myself heard. but what about the millions of women who cannot? women who are hurt every day, in every corner of our planet, but neither have the power nor hold the office to speak up. when i arrived at the meeting, there were cameras in the room. thanks to them, the short video of my arrival immediately went viral and caused headlines around the world. there was no need for subtitles. there was no need for translations. the images spoke for themselves. but we all know thousands of similar incidents, most of them far more serious, go unobserved. nobody ever sees them or hears about them because there is no camera, because there is nobody paying attention. we have to make sure that these stories are told too and that when they are told they are acted upon. the istanbul convention is an important tool for that. in may, it will be ten years since the convention was signed. it is a ground—breaking legal text and an inspiring document. it is the first internationally—binding instrument to take a broad approach to combating violence against women and children. the convention prohibits psychological violence, sexual harassment and stalking and it outlaws domestic violence. i do not need to tell you how important it is, especially now in the times of pandemic. i used the meeting in ankara to reiterate my deep concern about turkey withdrawing from the convention. the withdrawal of one of the founding members of the council of europe is a terrible signal. to be credible, however, we must not only criticise others. to be credible, we also have to act at home. you all know several member states have still not ratified the convention and others are thinking about quitting. this is not acceptable. any kind of violence against women and children is a crime. we must call it a crime and it must be punished as such. this is why i want the eu itself to join the istanbul convention. this remains a priority for my commission, but as the eu’s accession is stalled in council, we will, before the end of the year, present alternative measures. we will put forward legislation to prevent and combat violence against women and children, offline and online, and we will – my second point – propose to extend the list of euro—crimes set out in the treaty to include all forms of hate crime, because europe needs to send a strong signal that hate crime is not acceptable, because we have to make sure that women and girls are adequately protected everywhere in europe, because what us vice president, kamala harris, recently said at the united nations is true: ‘the status of women is the status of democracy’. die gleichberechtigte beteiligung von frauen macht unsere demokratien stärker – nicht weil frauen besser sind, sondern weil wir anders sind. wir haben eine andere sichtweise der welt, wir sehen andere gefahren oder chancen. für ein vollständiges bild von der welt brauchen wir männer und frauen. nur so können wir die richtigen entscheidungen treffen, nur so können wir maximal erfolgreich sein. am freitag habe ich das pfizer-werk in puurs besucht; dort habe ich dr. özlem türeci getroffen. sie ist mitbegründerin und medizinische vorständin von biontech, jenem unternehmen, das den ersten zugelassenen mrna-impfstoff gegen covid-19 entwickelt hat. als kleines mädchen ist özlem türeci bei ihren großeltern in istanbul aufgewachsen, dann kam sie nach deutschland und studierte medizin. biontech steht heute zusammen mit pfizer im zentrum unserer impfkampagne in europa. eine kampagne, die tag für tag an tempo zulegt: bis heute wurden in der europäischen union 129 millionen mal menschen geimpft, rund 26 % der erwachsenen haben mindestens eine dosis bekommen, und in dieser woche werden rund 30 millionen weitere dosen ausgeliefert – überall in unserer union, auch dank özlem türeci. eine geschichte, die zeigt, welche enormen kräfte frei werden, wenn frauen gleiche chancen haben und ihr können respektiert wird. eine geschichte, die zeigt, warum wir mehr frauen in führungspositionen brauchen. und hier sollte die europäische union mit gutem beispiel vorangehen, und das tun wir: zum ersten mal seit bestehen der kommission sind ebenso viele frauen wie männer im kollegium der europäischen kommission vertreten. ich möchte diesen erfolg auch auf allen managementebenen der kommission erzielen – noch sind wir nicht da, aber immerhin: derzeit haben frauen mehr als 40 % der führungspositionen in der kommission inne. j’invite les autres institutions de l’union européenne à suivre notre exemple. la commission, certes, mais aussi le conseil, l’administration du parlement européen et les autres organes de l’union ont encore beaucoup d’efforts à faire. la commission organisera donc bientôt une réunion avec les autres institutions pour discuter de la manière dont nous pouvons tous faire mieux. les femmes représentent la moitié de la population européenne, et cela doit se refléter dans les institutions, au cœur de l’europe. mesdames et messieurs les députés, au conseil européen de mars, les chefs d’état ou de gouvernement ont été très clairs: le respect des droits des femmes est un préalable important à une reprise du dialogue avec la turquie et à l’élargissement de notre programme commun, mais c’est loin d’être la seule condition préalable. à ankara, j’ai de nouveau porté le message que la turquie doit poursuivre la désescalade en méditerranée orientale, qu’elle doit accepter les arrêts de la cour européenne des droits de l’homme; ce sont nos conditions pour renforcer notre coopération économique avec la turquie et pour engager des dialogues à haut niveau sur des sujets tels que le changement climatique, la santé publique et les questions régionales. dans ces conditions, il sera aussi beaucoup plus facile de libérer de l’argent frais pour aider la turquie à prendre en charge plus de 4 millions de réfugiés syriens. nous saluons d’ailleurs les efforts que la turquie fait à cet égard. mesdames et messieurs les députés, lorsque nous parlons de respect et de dignité, nous ne devons pas nous limiter à l’égalité hommes-femmes. la question est bien plus large. nous ne pouvons tolérer que les «zones sans lgbt» se multiplient dans nos états membres, nous ne pouvons tolérer que les roms soient discriminés en europe, et nous ne pouvons absolument pas tolérer le visage hideux de l’antisémitisme et du racisme qui s’affiche dans les moindres recoins de notre union. l’europe vaut tellement mieux que ça. and sometimes i am amazed that we even have to talk about such self—evident things in this year of 2021; that we still have to stress the point that all across europe people must have the same equal rights and equal opportunities, regardless of whom they love, where they do come from, regardless of how old they are and the faith they hold. because this is the union i believe in, a union which lives up to its motto: united in diversity. for me, these three words have always expressed a solemn pledge at home and abroad, today and in future. long live europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the last european council seems to have been a long time ago, but the main issue that is troubling the citizens of europe is unfortunately still there and in our minds: the covid situation, vaccination, people's daily lives and people who still have to die. the central question we can answer to the citizens today is: vaccination is picking up speed. i also want to start by paying tribute to the companies, the entrepreneurs, the people who have made it possible in the last few weeks that we can now produce so many vaccines in such a short time and offer them to our citizens. there's a tremendous amount of work and innovation behind it. thank you for that. the commission has given answers based on the experience of the first weeks, the first months of this vaccination strategy. for example, we welcome the procedure initiated against astrazeneca: those who do not supply must also be treated accordingly, and exports are also based on the principle of reciprocity. it is time to stop the eu bashing, to stand up and say: we europeans deliver vaccines, we provide our citizens with vaccines, and the selfishness that other countries have practiced is definitely not the right way. ladies and gentlemen, the central issue that will be on our minds this week is the certificate that we will be discussing - a second key building block of these european activities in the fight against the pandemic. it is good that we have now activated a fast procedure. i would have liked the commission to have put the proposal on the table a little earlier. but it's good that we're moving fast now, because citizens expect to be able to get their lives back a little bit. there are great hopes in this, and that is why i would like to make it clear to the epp group that we are continuing to rely on the ema, the european medicines agency, for vaccination. it has to assess whether vaccines are respected and recognised in the certificate or whether those vaccines are not recognised. the second is that we have to be careful in the cost of vaccination and especially in the cost of testing that there is no social division on this continent. in the context of subsidiarity, this question must be weighed very, very carefully. and the third thing that drives us is: if there is no risk anymore because people are vaccinated, then they must also get their civil rights back. they must be given the opportunity to regain freedom of movement in the european sense. it is a european right, and that must be restored by vaccination. finally, i would like to stress once again that the question of jobs is now before us in the field of vaccines. the social dimension of the covid crisis will become more real in the summer, so i am delighted that we will also be discussing tourism intensively this week. ladies and gentlemen, a second topic is driving us today, and that is the visit of the two eu leaders to turkey. the aim was a message of strength, and the effect was a message of weakness and disunity. where is the geopolitically respected european union? that is the question that remains after this visit. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world. the first question is: we don't have first- and second-class presidents. we have been given different tasks in this european union by the treaty of lisbon, and that is where we are campaigning for, and we expect these issues to be properly represented. the second is what ursula von der leyen has now put at the centre of her speech. it is in ankara, where the turkish leadership has questioned the istanbul convention, that the impression has been created that this is discrimination against women. a difficult, a problematic impression has been created. for my group, the european people's party, i would point out that of the nine epp commissioners, six - that is to say, two thirds - are women. we are making a real contribution, an important contribution, to ensuring that the commission is run on equal terms between men and women, and that is why everything must be done in the future - as ursula von der leyen has said - to ensure that this impression is not repeated. thirdly, we need a clear allocation of diplomatic services so that this does not happen again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the content, the list vis-à-vis turkey is long: with syria, with gas, with cyprus, with the migrants. we are not trying to open a new chapter with turkey, but we are trying to rebuild trust first and foremost, and turkey has ample opportunity to regain that reliability and that trust in the geneva talks on cyprus and in the gas drilling. we are therefore in favour of the introduction of a visa-free regime, which is a precondition for any further steps towards visa liberalization, the opening up of economic markets and other concessions. the ball is in ankara's court, and we hope that the turkish government will take it up.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, sofagate: a word that everyone knows and which, unfortunately, has been on the front pages of the european media for more than ten days. and yet it has not deserved to have its own debate in this parliament. it's a missed opportunity. i still do not understand why the leaders of the other political groups, with the exception of my colleague, mrs manon aubry, have not wanted to have a frank debate on this subject and have preferred to confuse it with the council conclusions, which have little to do with it. but, in any case, i have to tell you that i'm very disappointed. the european union has a shameful image from that fateful meeting in ankara. because there, in that couch scene, something has been made clear that women know very well, but that often goes unnoticed: that it is very difficult for us to occupy positions of responsibility; that it is very difficult for us to break glass ceilings. i know, mr michel, that it was not your intention, that you may not have realised the consequences of this so-called 'failure of protocol' in this respect. but that's the problem. that's precisely the problem: they don't realize it. that's what needs to change in our society and that's the change we need to show in our gestures as well. i am not satisfied with the statements, although i told you a few weeks ago that i accept your apology. because, yes, i, as a european woman, did feel offended. there are different perspectives on this issue, and i would like to speak about this specific issue today. and because each topic deserves a thorough debate. of course we have to talk about turkey, and we will have to deal with very sensitive issues, including the decision of the ankara government to withdraw its country from the istanbul convention. and i shall be addressing all these issues in the may part-session, when the report on turkey, which this parliament has already approved in committee, is voted on. but today i want to ask you to make a collective effort and put egos aside. we need a collective effort to ensure that this grotesque image of sofagate does not happen again. and also to demonstrate a commitment of the european union to gender equality. mrs von der leyen, mr michel, i was hoping that you would agree to make a proposal on how to avoid such situations in the future. in any case, let me say that the treaties already provide for a solution to the institutional complexity of the european union, and that is the high representative. in any case, the diplomatic incident should not be used as an excuse to undo the path taken. we must strengthen our foreign and security policy, because otherwise the union will be condemned to increasingly irrelevant status, and we do not deserve this. that's why i'm asking you to make a small effort to coordinate the protocol better for future occasions. and now, to correct that disastrous picture, i ask mr michel - as you have said today in this house - for a real commitment to gender equality policies. we are waiting for the council to unblock once and for all the directive on women on boards, which has been blocked in the council for years. and we are also waiting for the council to ratify the istanbul convention, which has not yet been done. we believe it is necessary and we believe that this is the time to have that feminist agenda that europe needs. and, mrs von der leyen, we are also waiting for the commission - as you have rightly said - to take another type of legislative initiative: a european directive against gender-based violence, which is the greatest scourge europe is suffering from at the moment. i know that some in this house may think that these are minor issues: they are not, i assure you. and the media coverage of sofagate is proof of that. in her inaugural speech as president of this house in 1979, simone weil paid tribute to another great europeanist, louise weiss, for her commitment to the emancipation of women. more than 40 years have passed since that speech, but there has only been one other president of this european parliament, nicole fontaine. that's two women in over 40 years. mrs von der leyen is a pioneer at the head of the commission and no woman has yet been president of the council. the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that in europe we are still in the early days of equality. a lot of people might not realize it, but we do. we're just taking the first steps and we're not going to stop. i'm finished. if you move the chair, we move the conscience.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to thank the president of the council and the president of the commission and dear colleagues. the pandemic is one of the many issues in the world that affects the eu, whether it’s in our direct neighbourhood or on continents afar. in a world that is increasingly unstable and less secure a common foreign policy is more vital than ever. unfortunately, that does not seem to be the case. in moscow, mr borrell displayed incredible naivety. while putin was building up troops on the ukraine border the eu came across as weak, the exact opposite of what we needed to achieve. russia poses a threat to our security and stability and should be dealt with accordingly, as renew has pointed out many times already. in ankara, the image should have been of a radically new relationship with our neighbour. if turkey wants to be a partner, things need to change and conditions need to be met. turkey, today, is not a serious prospective member state. we need to be realistic about that. erdoğan continues to trample on the values that are fundamental to us – freedom of the press and equal rights for women, to name just two. well, more than one lesson should be learned from sofagate. it dominated the news and overshadowed our strong warnings to turkey. again, the eu came across as weak. is this a crisis of leadership? i don’t think so. this is a crisis of governance. the players of the game are as good as the rules of the game they play and the eu cannot win with the rules that it plays by. it needs reform. the conference on the future of europe that we within europe initiate is the place to talk about precisely which reforms it needs. we will do so together with our citizens who, poll after poll, say they expect us to show unity on the international stage. do not underestimate the need for europe to speak with one voice. much depends on it – our ability to promote our values, to defend our interests and to achieve our goals.
in the name of the id group. mr president, mr von der leyen, mr michel, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to be here today to talk about the progress made in rebalancing relations between turkey and the european union, but today we are discussing a total failure, which will remain in the collective imagination with the indecent scene of a few weeks ago. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with president von der leyen for making her, despite herself, the protagonist of one of the worst pages in our diplomatic history. that scene not only confirmed what we already knew about erdoğan, but also gave the world the plastic image of a paralyzed union, unable to react in a timely manner when circumstances demand it: president von der leyen, who does not leave the insulting room, and you, president michel, who remains petrified in that chair. a few days before your visit to ankara, the council in its conclusions insisted on maintaining a soft approach with turkey. i believe that continuing to give trust and resources to an authoritarian regime on sensitive issues such as the customs union and the management of migrants is the result of a very serious error of assessment on the part of the union. the sofa gate is not just an unfortunate isolated incident or should be read as a failure to respect the gender issue, but is the result of a failed policy of twenty years in the union's relations with a country like turkey. so i ask you both, mr president, what is the point of continuing to respond to crisis situations with paralysis by continually giving in to the blackmail of an illiberal regime? in recent months you have been very much focused, and this house has also been very much focused on respect for the rule of law, and we have come into direct conflict with some european countries such as poland and hungary with great vigour. the same vigour which i do not see being used against those who are accustomed to silencing political opponents and ethnic minorities by violence, and who have become the bulwark of a very dangerous islamic fanaticism, culminating in the disastrous decision to convert the hagia sophia into a mosque, dangerously pushing back the hand of a century of history. you see, the respect that we have not demanded from turkey all these years and the inconsistency that we have made into a dogma have called into question the very credibility of europe, not only in the face of these illiberal regimes, but in the face of the whole world. last week, the president of the united states made a historic decision, recognizing as genocide the massacre of the armenian population that took place in the first world war. so while the world powers fearlessly face the predictable wrath of erdoğan, the union once again decides to stay behind, lending itself to this dangerous game of an illiberal regime and i add, as an italian, that when my prime minister, mario draghi, was attacked by ankara for calling erdoğan what he is - a dictator - i did not hear the shields raised by the european institutions in defence of a prime minister of a founding state of this union. with this attitude we are sinning in the name of ignavia, and as we have seen, ignavia is paid not only with reckless gestures such as we have seen in ankara, but with a subordination that we are paying for every day politically and geopolitically. president von der leyen, president michel, i urge you not to be afraid, as the courageous man who spoke these words, john paul ii, was not afraid when he fought first the nazi regime and then the communist regime in his native poland. when you decide to abandon the path of impossible compromises and finally take the path of common sense, you will not be alone, but you will find all the peoples of europe at your side.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to say to you, president michel, that i am disappointed in you. i don’t expect much from president erdoğan. he has just cancelled the istanbul convention and does nothing to protect women – to put it very mildly – and certainly he would try to divide the eu, but from you i would have expected different. if you treat the commission president like this, then no woman can expect different treatment, and that’s what makes it so personal. the eu can only speak with a strong voice if we speak with one voice, if we’re not divided, and this is of course very well known to president erdoğan but also to other heads of state elsewhere. that’s exactly why they try so hard to divide us and we should never play their game because it weakens all of us. already before your visit to turkey the eu position towards the turkish government has been very weak, and that is something that i’m disappointed with in everyone participating in that meeting. the human rights situation in turkey is catastrophic and democracy and the rule of law have deteriorated dramatically. look no further than the arbitrary imprisonment of journalists, academia, opposition politicians, the ceaseless harassment of civil society, media, opposition parties, doctors, lawyers, prosecutors, people facing many years of prison for tweets, like cihan erdal, and women, especially trans—woman, facing massive violence. and yet, confronted with all of those issues, the council is still working on a mandate for the modernisation of the customs union between the eu and turkey without any linkage to human rights and – very differently from accession negotiations – upgrading the customs union entails zero commitment for press freedom or the rights of opposition parties. it’s a purely economic instrument that will help erdoğan win in the area that makes him most vulnerable – economics. therefore, i strongly urge you to think again about the message you are sending to people fighting for human rights and democracy in turkey, but also beyond. and yes, european companies would also benefit from the customs union upgrade, but that cannot be an argument to ignore human rights. you must change track now for europe to have any foreign policy credibility left. turkey is one of the main receiving countries for refugees, and yes we should do our utmost to help the country deal with that challenge, but europe should never have tasked erdoğan with keeping people in need away from europe’s borders. that was a failure of europe’s responsibility to the fundamental human rights of people in need of protection and a geopolitical disaster, and it needs to be ended and not to be continued.
mr president, i would like to thank president von der leyen and president michel for having pointed out that the long way towards achieving a true equality of rights in europe is still far from the finishing line. also taking account of erdoğan’s unacceptable affront and the fact that once again our open hands towards ankara have been received with a slap, we would be foolish not to draw the necessary conclusions and ask erdoğan to put an end to this waltz of ambiguities to which he accustoms us, forcing us to carry out a serious examination of conscience. while we rightly attack ankara on the withdrawal from the istanbul convention – a predictable paradox – a less predictable paradox is affecting us. only 21 eu member states have ratified it and, in the polish parliament, a text is under consideration that calls for its exit. this is a contradiction that undermines our credibility and exposes us to those who want to use our weaknesses against us. having allowed erdoğan to blackmail us on the issue of migration and refugees is solely and exclusively our responsibility. the eu must be cohesive and consistent internally to be incisive and credible outside. it is time to abandon the weakness of hypocrisy, to act in concert with our allies, with president biden, to really defend our values and principles in the mediterranean.
i would like to make a few comments on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european community. but let's agree on one thing: this is not a repeat. it was bad for you as president of the council, bad for europe as a geopolitical player, and bad for a europe that stands up for women's rights. let's be honest here. we haven't been doing a very good job of our foreign travel lately. first moscow, now this. indeed, mrs von der leyen, you have experienced this couch potato because you are a woman - erdoğan has played it cleverly - but also because the division of labour is not clear. the question of who is speaking for the eu, as asked by kissinger, is still unresolved. so let us use the conference on the future of europe to settle this question once and for all. and then there is the positive agenda for relations with turkey. we in parliament, mr president, are a little more critical. as long as people are thrown into prison without trial, journalists are silenced and women are not respected, turkey has no place in the european union. we must suspend the negotiations and first put the european union itself in order. sofagate was embarrassing, but as our english-speaking friends say, what doesn't kill you, makes you stronger. my dear ursula, my dear charles, it is time we showed that europe and women's rights are not to be trifled with!
madam president von der leyen, mr president michel, after the diplomatic fiasco of josep borrell in moscow a few weeks ago, the sofa gate in ankara has obscured the fundamental question of turkey's behaviour towards us. illegal drilling in cypriot waters, blackmailing of migrants, anti-french military action in the eastern mediterranean, support for islamists in libya, attack on armenia, agitation by the turkish islamist diaspora on european soil... in the face of this flood of aggression and provocation, what is your response? nothing, strictly nothing. no sanctions or even threats, even though the customs union that turkey has enjoyed for 25 years could be called into question, or payments under pre-accession funds or loans from the european investment bank could be stopped. and, of course, that the accession process could be brought to a definitive end. on the question of the protocol in brussels, some dream of the european union as a super-state, but for a leader like erdoğan, who is very much against the very nebulous protocol considerations, the one who represents the 27 heads of state and government has infinitely more weight and power than the one who represents the brussels administration. this case also reminds us that the european union as such has no weight on the international scene; it manages the trick of being both a bureaucratic monster and a geopolitical dwarf. finally, apart from these political and protocol aspects, the sofa gate revealed a cultural divide, a difference in values. ankara is the eastern and muslim world. in our european and western society, when men and women are in the same room, men check that women have a seat before they sit down. this is basic courtesy, gallantry. mr. michel, you have given in to erdoğan. you've aligned yourself with turkish cultural standards. you have engaged in a kind of "protocol-based immaturity". the nations and peoples of europe did not deserve such humiliation.
president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the committee on budgets ... we have a covid crisis, and i'm not hearing from anyone. the youth are struggling with learning disabilities and a lot of psychological suffering. small and medium-sized businesses are going bankrupt. the only way out is to vaccinate. the eu and commission president von der leyen would solve it. big words were used. but only 21 percent of the population is vaccinated. in the united states, the figure is 41%. our british friends have almost 50 percent. the eurofederalists say: small countries cannot do it. what about israel? with 62%, that country is in the lead. mrs von der leyen, after the bundeswehr and the free shipment of 55 tons of medical protective equipment to china in february 2020, you can add the slow vaccination of the eu to your book of blunders. you're combining too much vanity with too little performance. your services are not yet in a position to arrange a visit to erdoğan in a professional manner. mrs. von der leyen, you can keep the honor to yourself. please step up and take your digital certificate with you.
president. - mrs von der leyen, mr michel, the visit to ankara was overshadowed by a very uncomfortable chair dance. i found the images painful. the first female president of the european commission is not immune from gender discrimination either, let alone women in a vulnerable position. many women recognize how painful it is to be denied a voice, to be denied a seat, when they are just entitled to one. mrs von der leyen, you had that right. it is particularly painful because turkey has just decided to withdraw from the istanbul convention and femicide is on the increase. a new low in our fight for women's rights. that's where i expect our male leaders to step forward. mr michel, you know by now that you should have acted differently. i ask you to apologize for this today. there is no argument for conforming to patriarchal diplomacy. the fight for gender equality simply does not allow for that.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner gabriel, colleagues, the debate leading up to the final approval by the european parliament of the research and innovation programme 'horizon europe' and the specific programme for the implementation and execution of the 'horizon europe' programme is a moment in which, first of all, we must highlight the enormous work done by the european parliament and the council to support, develop and negotiate a working version of the draft programme proposed by the european commission back in 2018. the new 'horizon europe' programme is expected by the scientific community in europe, by young scientists, by scientific institutions, but also by business, which incorporates innovation into its business plans and actually translates the objectives of the 'green deal' and the digital transformation into concrete solutions, outputs and competitive measures. the new programme is extremely ambitious in three main ways: first, it is innovative in itself in terms of approach, tools and intended impact. second, the programme is highly flexible and accessible to all stakeholders, while being open to the development of the main lines for the green and digital transformation. last but not least, the programme is in deep and effective synergy with the general policies of the european union, but also with all programmes and financial instruments and the multiannual financial framework and the 'new generation' mechanism of the european union.
president, commissioner, with the european institute of innovation and technology we have a unique platform to bring together business, research and education. the commission's proposals are as follows: the european union is committed to the three pillars of stability and prosperity, which are essential to staying ahead in this fast-moving and competitive global economy and to ensuring prosperity for the future. by bringing these pillars together, we are creating an environment in which innovative products and services can be developed, new start-ups can emerge and a new generation of entrepreneurs can be trained. as a shadow rapporteur, it was my commitment to ensure that the administrative thresholds for organisations to participate remain as low as possible. the danger is always lurking in european decisionmaking. but i think that the compromise reached has done that. it is widely supported and i expect it will be adopted by a large majority. i would like to conclude by addressing the creative minds of europe with innovative ideas. eur 3 billion is available for the next seven years. i myself did not know of its existence when i was still active as an entrepreneur. get into this program! it's an opportunity for you. and we, we need you to stay at the top of the world in innovation. it can make a difference, and we all benefit from it.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, five years have passed since the brexit referendum and it turns out that leaving the eu was not as easy as brexiteers made people believe. despite all of the hard work done by the negotiating teams, and i would especially like to express my gratitude on behalf of renew europe also to mr barnier, but also of course to all those colleagues who worked hard the last couple of years. political will was efficient on the uk side and there was a lack of integrity, which is the cause of where we find ourselves today. we already see the collateral damage. who would have thought 10 years ago that we would be in the situation of having to plead for respect for the good friday agreement? it begs the unthinkable question, are some in westminister determined to drag northern ireland back to the time of the troubles? despite recent improvements renew europe is not yet convinced about the willingness of the british government to respect the tca and the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. the british government has not proven trustworthy so far. this is why we ask the commission to pursue the infringement proceedings against the uk with vigour. despite the serious concerns, my group will vote in favour of the brexit deal today. voting this deal down would result in the risk of a no-deal scenario that we have worked so hard to avoid. but this is agreement does not give a blank cheque to the uk nor to the european commission, and in order for this agreement to work, trust must be regained. renew europe wants to see a concrete timetable jointly set up by the uk and the european commission. if the british government does not respect agreed obligations, we will not hesitate to take all necessary action. this includes the restriction of the unprecedented levels of market excess the uk currently enjoys. we can only remain good friends if both parties play fairly. we also need to ensure that the uk pays its fair share of liabilities accumulated over the course of its membership and beyond. finally renew europe welcomes the commission statement on parliament’s role in implementation of the agreement, that this commitment must be put into an interinstitutional agreement. the european parliament must play an active role in the monitoring and implementation of the agreement, and we will not give up this fight. to conclude, it’s important that we keep realising that the eu and the uk both benefit more from good cooperation as neighbours then from managing divergences. let’s hope better days lie ahead. that is certainly our hope.
madam president, today is an historic day for the people in europe and the uk. the past year we’ve been carving out our future relationship and our vote today marks the last step in establishing the legal framework for our future relations. a relief, because brexit has been a bumpy ride, to say the least. like a marriage without a solid pre-nup, the divorce can get extra messy. and while we managed to reach an acceptable divorce settlement and successfully fended off a disastrous no deal, issues continue to arise, issues that call for joint solutions and solutions that start with respecting the commitments that you signed up for, and not by acting unilaterally. having said that, most of the work in the european parliament will only commence after the ratification of the agreement. we should have an important role in the implementation and enforcement of the tca. so in the years to come, i will insist, and i will continue to insist, that our citizens and businesses receive the fair treatment they are entitled to. no unfair subsidies will be given to create unfair competition against our companies. lastly, all of our agreements need to be respected to the letter. this deal should give us more possibilities to ensure the mutually agreed foundations of our relationship, which both the eu and the uk signed up for. and for those citizens and businesses that have been hit hard by this new border between the eu and the uk recently, i remain hopeful. i remain hopeful that one day the uk will find its way back to the eu again, because we face the same global challenges and we have more to win by finding a response to these challenges together. after five years of brexit debate, i hope we can finally stop discussing our divorce and start to envision our new relationship as friends, neighbours and allies in our common future for our citizens and businesses on both sides of the channel.
mr president, the trade and cooperation agreement gives citizens and businesses some much-needed clarity and a way forward. however, we must remain cautious for possible frictions and disputes in the implementation of the agreement. we already see difficulties arising for exporting businesses, for example relating to the rules of origin provisions, and the eu and the united kingdom must remain engaged in constructive dialogue to avoid a situation in which instead of cooperation, dispute settlement becomes the norm. as we see frictions arising over the last few months our collective conclusion must be that the process needs our fullest attention. effective implementation from both parties, as well as proper democratic monitoring, is crucial. in that regard the european and united kingdom parliaments must have a role through a dedicated partnership assembly in the implementation and oversight of the agreement.
madam president, at the start of the pandemic, this parliament installed thermal cameras from a chinese company named hikvision. this is a company that faces well-documented accusations of supplying surveillance equipment to camps detaining uyghurs in the chinese region of xinjiang. you will understand my surprise that, when i proposed to remove the cameras, the company rather aggressively approached me and other members to withdraw this call. let me be clear: we should not give in to intimidation. i think the incident shows us the importance of supply-chain responsibility and responsible business conduct. businesses that fail to respect human rights should not be part of eu supply chains. parliament should lead by example here, and i therefore repeat my position: hikvision products have no place in this house as long as hikvision is enabling china’s campaign of repression against the uyghurs.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this week we are voting for the first time to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in response to job losses due to the covid-19 crisis in the estonian tourism sector. workers who lost their job will receive direct support from the european union budget to receive training and personal counselling to find a new job. it will, sadly enough, not be the last time. we will need a lot more support for workers in the coming years. many people have already lost their jobs and this number is likely to increase. the economic recovery is as unpredictable as the further evolution of the pandemic. short-term work schemes have helped keep distressed businesses and workers afloat, but are by nature a temporary solution. the transformation to a digital and green economy that is the goal of the economic recovery and the eur 750 billion investment through next generation eu should be supported by this fund. we shouldn’t retrain workers to work in energy intensive and fossil—fuel based industries and that is why i am happy that the support package the workers will receive will include training on the skills needed in a climate—neutral, resource—efficient economy. young parents will also be able to pay for childcare, enabling them to participate in training and to have the time to look for a job. in the wake of the pandemic, reducing poverty and social inequality has become the number one issue the eu should focus on for eu citizens. citizens across europe count on us to stand by their side in their daily struggles, and that is why this fund that shows european solidarity directly in action is so important.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, when the pandemic emerged in the eu we saw the national reflex of closing the borders to keep the enemy outside. this is understandable, but a virus doesn’t stop at border crossing points. now that the vaccination rate has increased, along with the need to restore our economies and our liberty, we need a more sensible and harmonised approach towards lifting border restrictions, to avoid health risks, chaos and discriminatory policies, and thus to pave a better way to our freedom of movement. the proposed regulation aims to facilitate our freedom, but it also touches upon rights and freedoms that are dear to us. with this regulation, our group formulated very clear red lines and we now see that those lines have been respected in parliament’s position. it ensures that the member states cannot discriminate between people with the vaccine and people without a vaccine, as people with a negative test or in a recovery stage have to be treated in the same way. we have also ensured non-discrimination between wealthy people and less wealthy people, as member states must grant tests for free and make them easily accessible. the right to privacy is guaranteed with the highest standards as data is minimised, will not be exchanged or retained, and people cannot be tracked and traced. but what about our right to health? of course, the risk of transmitting the virus increases with every movement, but the system represents the right balance between reducing the risks and protecting our freedoms, economies and well—being. criteria on validity and reliability have to be evidence—based and adjusted in line with new developments and scientific results. many people are concerned that the certificate will restrict our freedom, so we must ensure that the result is the opposite. having no certificate cannot be the sole ground on which to deny entry, but a certificate has to guarantee that no further restrictions can be imposed. it’s time to return to our freedom of movement and to protect our health with appropriate local and regional health measures and, of course, rapid vaccination.
madam president, we have received thousands of messages from concerned citizens asking us to protect their fundamental rights and to vote against the covid certificates. i ask my colleagues here: don’t we owe it to ourselves to listen to them? as the representatives of the people, isn’t it our first and foremost task to protect the fundamental rights of the people who elected us, regardless of our political affiliation, and to reject proposals that infringe on their personal freedoms and their bodily integrity? what kind of parliament are we when we rush to introduce measures that link medical status with the enjoyment of civil liberties? this covid certificate does not ensure freedom of movement. on the contrary, it infringes that right and it will lead to unprecedented discrimination on medical grounds within the eu. it is time for this european parliament to draw the line. it is time to step up and reject the eu covid—19 certificate in its entirety.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, last week we witnessed more of putin’s outrageous geopolitical behaviour. evidence emerged about the involvement of russian intelligence services in the 2014 explosion at the arms depot in the czech republic. we stand shoulder to shoulder with the czech republic and remind putin that russian interference has no place anywhere in the eu. we also witnessed alexei navalny being subjected to inhumane treatment in prison and his supporters being unjustly arrested when they took to the streets in protest. we call for navalny’s immediate release. putin then turned his attention to ukraine and escalated tensions further by sending more troops into the region. these are all acts in a sinister power play with one sole purpose: the survival of putin’s corrupt regime. it’s clear that putin has failed to learn a basic lesson. you can kill, imprison or drive your opponents into exile, but you cannot dampen the legitimate wish of the russian people to one day live in a democratic and law—abiding society. we cannot stand by while the russian prime minister declares we are in a new cold war. renew europe calls on the council to extend the sanctions under the eu magnitsky act. we must show putin that the eu is united in condemnation of these actions.
the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. the commission has offered generous help this weekend and that is to be appreciated. but also apart from this situation there is every reason to invest in contacts with india, because of the mutual trade relations, but also because of the stability in the region. but we must not lose sight of the fact that some things are not going well in india. i am thinking, for example, very specifically of pastor sanjay bhandari, who was beaten up earlier this month by a group of hindu extremists because he had to end his proselytizing activities. religious freedom in india too often proves to be a mere paper reality. in our resolution we therefore condemn the evil anti-conversion laws and call on india to do more to protect christians and other religious minorities. i call on the presidency and the european external action service to do the same. the human rights dialogue held earlier this month must be continued. that is in the interests of religious freedom, in the interests of human rights and in the interests of religious minorities. the strengthening of economic cooperation must go hand in hand with improvements in the human rights situation.
madam president, with the agreement on rail passenger rights that is on the table, the full potential of trains for achieving the green deal is not tapped into. with a more reliable and comfortable rail service, we could convince many more people to take the train, but this deal will please the rail operators and leave passengers out in the cold. with this deal, two centimetres of snow can be enough for train passengers not to get compensation. it will still be nearly impossible to book an international trip on one ticket and, if you travel on a regional train, like most commuters, for another five years you might not be eligible for compensation when delayed. persons with disabilities or reduced mobility won’t be able to participate in society equally, because they still have to book assistance 24 hours in advance, even at big stations. this deal is not in line with what is necessary to promote sustainable transport, and that is why i call on all colleagues to support the amendments proposed by the greens, reject this deal and reopen negotiations. passengers and the planet count on you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the current anti—blasphemy law in pakistan has been captured by religious extremists, on the one side to argue against minorities from christians to ahmadis and, on the other side, for popular individual misuse in case you want to get rid of an ‘evil’ neighbour. i have followed the political discussions in pakistan for years. we are not in a situation where successive governments, from general musharraf to imran khan, would have actively instigated people to denounce alleged perpetrators. measures have been taken to filter out obvious cases of misuse, but real reform that would lead to clear—cut definitions and procedures to prevent obvious misuse were simply not dared. i recall a courageous draft private members bill by the then people’s party mp, sherry rehman, that would have addressed these issues, but it was withdrawn by her own party. i met minister shahbaz bhatti 12 days before he was assassinated, also for his stance in this regard. victims of such allegations are sitting in prison for years until they are finally acquitted. fortunately, nobody has been executed thus far. my appeal to pakistani policymakers: be courageous, redraft this law, do protect religion – but more against your own extremists than against innocent neighbours, be they christians, hindus or muslims. (applause)
mr. chairman, this case of the use of the so-called blasphemy laws has also deeply disturbed everyone. shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel must be released immediately! sadly, freedom of religion or belief continues to be restricted and suppressed around the world. christians are persecuted in many lands of the world. the chinese communist party is committing genocide against the muslim population and destroying places of worship. islamic fundamentalists are killing people of all faiths. according to the latest report by the acn foundation, up to 5.2 billion people live in countries that violate freedom of religion. all these reasons are why it is imperative that the european commission finally appoint a new eu special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief, something we have been pushing for for a long time here in the european parliament. i recall that the eu's leadership in defending religious freedom is essential to addressing many of the pressing challenges we face today.
president, commissioner, we are living under a blanket of fear, and that is the situation in which many christians, ahmadis and other minorities in pakistan find themselves at the moment. a striking example of this is the christian couple to whom we refer in the present resolution. the death penalty has been hanging over their heads for seven years and appeals have been postponed time and again. pakistan's blasphemy laws are among the strictest in the world and are also very strictly enforced, often based on false witness statements and with insufficient burden of proof. christian girls are kidnapped and raped and forced to marry their attackers and convert to islam. in short, the situation in pakistan is extremely serious. i therefore ask the european external action service and the commission to use all the instruments at their disposal. so we can help the religious communities in pakistan and pressure the government to commit to protecting religious minorities.
madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their report. both the energy system integration and the hydrogen strategy will play an important role in our plan to become climate-neutral by 2050, and i’m very happy that we choose green hydrogen as the future for europe. with this plan, we need to stimulate our heavy industry to invest in the most sustainable technologies. we ask them not to look at the short-term profit, but to look at the long-term benefits, knowing that we will do our utmost to increase supply and decrease the cost significantly. this transition will not be easy but, if we work together, we will preserve and create new sustainable jobs. finally, i would like to ask you, madam commissioner, especially in relation to green hydrogen, how you will explore the potential of international cooperation, and what opportunities you believe green hydrogen may bring to our neighbouring countries. i truly believe that we can create win—win situations and accelerate reductions of co2 globally.
mr president, we are still witnessing in my region the negative effects of the closure of the coal mines in the 1960s. by 2021, we know that the closure of gas production in the groningen region will result in the loss of 20 000 jobs. the solution is clear: we need to invest in new, clean energy production and with it in new jobs. however, investments in new technologies do not immediately provide people with the jobs of the future. the example of the 1960s has taught us that and we must never forget it. it is therefore essential to invest in the people who are working in the energy sector today, and in particular in upskilling, retraining and mentoring these people to prepare them for the jobs of the future. this is exactly what we are doing with the just transition fund, and it is a good thing. eu regions receive money to invest in the people and jobs of the future.
president, commissioner, if we have learned anything from this crisis, it is that we as the european union are too dependent on other parts of the world, not only for medicines and medical devices, but also for the very things we need for our economy of the future. i'm talking about the computer chips. i'm talking about batteries for electric cars. and it is good that the european commission is going to try to reduce this dependence with this strategy. and i also think it's a responsibility of politicians to make sure that we become less dependent on others. but in addition to making sure that we are producing more in the european union in a smart way, we also need to make sure that we are protecting better what we make and what we think in the european union: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected against unfair competition from chinese state-owned enterprises, against unwanted takeovers in strategic sectors or against unwanted takeovers of our knowledge and technology. and the package of foreign investment that has been presented is a good first step, but it can be improved and we will make some proposals for that as well. i would like to conclude by making a call to the european commission: the commission will also be presenting an action plan for interdependence in addition to this industrial strategy. how do we ensure that when we invest in research and innovation, other parts of the world also remain dependent on us? because that too creates a balance of power.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, for how many years have we already been debating the terrible deadly tragedies in the mediterranean in this house? as long as we keep a migration system in the air in which there is a perverse incentive that an irregular trip gives you a chance to get a residence permit in europe, the cynical business model of people smugglers will reign supreme and more people will die on boats. the only way is to prevent migrants from leaving the mainland via people smugglers in unsteady boats. agreements with third countries are then necessary by providing shelters in the region, to tackle people smuggling and offer legal avenues, such as asylum by invitation and resettlement, but also thorough reform of the labour migration policy. because we know that the majority of those who want to reach europe from north africa are not seeking protection but are looking for a better future in europe. and i don’t blame them. it has already been eight months since the commission presented the new migration package but there is no real progress among the member states. southern member states don’t like the border procedures and some other member states do not want complete reallocation. we saw the same dilemma in the previous proposals, and how do we resolve this deadlock? the answer is simple. we currently put all our energy into the internal dimension of migration. what we need is to shift our focus on the external dimension to avoid those terrible tragedies in the mediterranean. it is precisely in this external dimension that member states find each other. if you focus on the external dimension and regulate migration to europe via legal channels, the problem of the internal dimension will diminish. which brings me to my concluding question. which steps do the commission and the council representative foresee in the coming months on the external dimension of migration? and madam president, allow me to thank also madam commissioner for her statement on the current situation in ceuta, and indeed the spanish borders of ceuta and melilla are also european borders and morocco also needs to acknowledge that.
madam president, council and commission, 10 years ago the world was shocked about the left-to-die boat, a boat that was not rescued in the mediterranean sea, which led to the death of 63 people. since then, however, many more people have drowned despite the clear obligations of maritime law to go to their rescue and disembark people in a safe haven. libyan ports are no safe haven. we know that migrants are sent to awful detention centres where they suffer from torture and even slavery. the eu funds and trains the libyan coast guard and this outsourcing policy makes the fate of pullback migrants a european responsibility. it’s high time that we comply with our obligations and our values at the external borders, ensure search and rescue and disembarkation at european ports. and this is a common european responsibility. the biggest task now for the eu as a whole is ensuring that lives are saved and responsibility for asylum seekers is shared equally, otherwise we will not have a common asylum policy.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs with whom i worked in a very supportive and cooperative manner in order to get an agreement on this ini report. this ini report aims to ensure that the eu’s cooperation with third countries on migration respects and promotes the human rights of migrants and refugees across the globe. and also welcome to you, commissioner várhelyi! this responsibility does not stop at our borders. a shared responsibility is urgently needed as more than 80% of the refugees are hosted in their neighbouring countries, often suffering from a lack of prospects, even of protection. two-and-a-half years ago, most eu member states committed to sharing this responsibility, giving support to the global compact on refugees. but on the other hand, the eu developments on asylum raised the question as to whether the eu and its member states really keep up with their commitments made at the global level. the tendency of externalisation of its asylum and migration policies seems to increase the pressure on the region instead of relieving it, and this is the result of the outsourcing of protection and border control towards third countries. the formal and informal agreements the eu concludes with third countries of transit are likely to result in less, instead of more, responsibility-sharing, and this is not only a political choice but also a human rights concern. the eu has developed a pretty advanced common asylum policy, at least on paper. once an asylum seeker sets foot on the territory of the eu, they are entitled to a proper asylum procedure and reception standards. as i said, on paper at least, as in practice, we face serious compliance gaps. but parallel to the building of an internal asylum policy, the eu has increased its cooperation with neighbouring countries and other transit countries to combat irregular migration. where we first had formal agreements with countries of origin, we now merely see informal agreements with transit countries and this cooperation leads to migrants or refugees getting stuck in a country where they do not have rights and where there’s no guaranteed access to effective protection. this cooperation with neighbouring countries often creates a chain effect. people are returned from country to country, but also the other way round: people are faced with obstacles on their way to a place of protection. this sometimes even leads to refugees not being able to flee their own country. if you look at the situation of syrians, they really face problems even fleeing their own country as the borders, for instance with turkey, are blocked. if the arrangements between the eu and a third country lead to situations where refugees are stuck, left without protection or even tortured or subject to refoulement, the eu has a responsibility as well. better cooperation with third countries on migration lacks clear criteria on human rights. there are no conditions on protection in a third country, only the number of migrants is decisive for entering into cooperation or not. this report therefore calls for a human rights impact assessment before entering into cooperation and, in addition to that, a transparent and independent monitoring system of the human rights impact on migrants and refugees that would allow us to intervene if things are going wrong. the report expresses criticism on the shift towards informal deals, because informalisation means that the cooperation takes place in the complete absence of due parliamentary scrutiny and judicial oversight that, according to the treaties, the conclusion of formal readmission agreements would warrant, and that means that this shift from formalisation to informalisation sidelines the european parliament. we do not have any means to criticise, monitor, steer or influence this ongoing cooperation, but it also leaves those subject to this cooperation without any effective remedy or access to justice, and i think the eu-turkey statement is a clear example of that, where refugees who were stuck on lesbos wanted to complain to the court of justice because they saw that the eu-turkey statement affected their right to asylum. the court of justice said, well, this is not our competence, i am not having competence to assess it because this is something between the eu’s national leaders and erdoğan, whereas for everyone it’s clear that the eu budget is involved and that the council presidency and the commission were very much involved in this cooperation. so this report clearly calls for a formalisation so that access to justice and democratic control can be safeguarded. furthermore, the report also points at the other impact of this cooperation on migrants and refugees somewhere outside the territory of the eu. for instance, this cooperation also impinged upon the mobility opportunities for migrants in their region as freedom of movement and the right to work make migrants self-reliant and help further their integration. intra-ecowas migration should be promoted instead of what we now see through the border controls that the eu asks for, the free movement is hampered in those regions. so mobility is hampered but most important of all is that the human rights of refugees and migrants are at stake with this cooperation. so we call for better scrutiny. we also call not only upon the council and the commission to take these human rights into account, but also on our ourselves to do a better scrutiny on the funding of this cooperation and on demanding that we have a role in scrutinising this cooperation to make sure that human rights are complied with.
i have to say, madam president, the bombings and the suffering, particularly in gaza, are appalling and must stop. but we must deal with the causes of the renewed fighting: the siege of gaza, the brutal occupation of the west bank, the apartheid regime of israel and the de facto annexation of palestinian land through the continued growth of illegal settlements. it must end if we are to achieve lasting peace for both israel and palestine. now europe must finally take a stand and pursue with determination the two-state solution, which is well described both in the un and the eu. it is also important that elections be held in palestine as soon as possible so that the self-government can regain its democratic legitimacy. the eu can speed up the process and ensure a safe and dignified life for both sides if we take our own laws and international laws seriously in this conflict as well. if we do not act credibly now, we will be abandoning both our palestinian and israeli friends. it must not be just words - something must be done.
mr president, on a day like today, should we not also put our hand in our own bosom? because what has europe done? what has the high representative done about our requests to stop iran from providing terrorists in gaza with ample arms? what has europe done with our requests to stop the incessant hate speech and incitement to violence in the palestinian territories, even in school textbooks? what has europe done to stop the flow of aid money to terrorist organisations? the eu has been negligent in all these areas and is therefore, i repeat, complicit in the present situation. what we have to do now is: we must express our support for israel unequivocally, we must bear in mind that gaza and hamas are in the grip of a terrorist organization which the palestinians themselves are suffering from on a daily basis, and above all, i would say, we must pray for peace in jerusalem and pray for peace in the whole region.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, this week in the netherlands secondary schools have started their final exams, which is an important moment in their lives and for their future. last year, in the uk, not exams but artificial intelligence determined a-level exam results, which resulted in arbitrary and discriminatory results. kids who went to an expensive private school were systematically marked up and kids from state schools were systematically given a lower grade than expected. we need to protect pupils and students against situations where a computer or algorithm decides their future without human oversight. but we also have to protect them from companies harvesting their personal data through educational software. in the netherlands, 70% of all primary schools are now google schools, which is increasingly raising privacy concerns. for crucial digital infrastructure, like our education systems, we must not be dependent on a small number of large companies. we need public investment in education technology, clear public procurement rules and always human oversight on all decisions about the future of pupils and students.
madam president, i am in politics to protect people’s lives and health, and if that means i need to support less favourable options for one of the richest industries in the world, i will do so. not one life in this world is less important than patents on vaccines. i expect the eu to contribute to the fight against the pandemic by putting all options on the table. the eu has produced vaccines and kept exporting to third countries via covax in the last months. only this week, the us announced that it will finally contribute to the global distribution effort. however, the global distribution effort is at risk of being far too slow to reach the goal of 70% of the world’s population vaccinated, and it is a shame that export restrictions are placed on vaccines and raw materials. this is not the way forward in a global pandemic. this is vaccine privilege. the eu needs to remain cautious and not follow this path. developing countries are depending on a limited supply. actively scaling up global production should be our top priority to get out of the global pandemic, and the eu must support a temporary waiver of certain aspects of the trips agreement. i call on the council and the commission to keep a comprehensive approach towards expanding global production. we are not safe until everyone is safe.
mr president, some time ago i asked a friend whether he would take the vaccine or not. and with the number of casualties in india soaring, i added that many people don't have the luxury of asking themselves that question. there are simply not enough vaccines, and the vaccines that are there are not distributed fairly. that is why i, like many of my colleagues, was pleased with president biden's decision. some people say that we do not have a licensing problem, but a production problem, as if there were no connection between the two. the current shortage of vaccines is artificial and preventable. companies around the world from canada to india to bangladesh stand ready to produce hundreds of millions of doses once the licenses and knowledge are shared with them. nevertheless, pharmaceutical companies still claim that they can scale up production themselves. however, it would not be the first time that less than promised was delivered. it 's very simple . the commission and the council must now show moral leadership and end the deadlock in the lifting of the trips agreement.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is now well established that czech prime minister babiš is able to prop up his own businesses with public money, and in doing that he undermines european values and he deceives european taxpayers. the whole situation is painful for czech citizens who want to stand up for democracy and the rule of law, for the media and the independent institutions that are getting attacked for doing their jobs, and for the european project as a whole. every euro that ends up in the pockets of oligarchs is not being spent on solving our shared european challenges such as battling the climate crisis, tackling social inequality and investing in recovery from the pandemic. to restore trust several things need to be done. the czech authorities should retrieve the money received from mr babiš’s businesses. the commission should act as a guardian of the rule of law and not be shy with the conditionality mechanism. and mr babiš of course has a choice. he can resolve his conflict of interest by stopping the funnelling of european subsidies to his companies. he can cut ties with his businesses, or he can step down as a member of the european council.
mr president, the findings of the commission are clear. mr babiš is still largely in control of agrofert, and as this company profits from eu funding, the commission concluded that mr babiš violates the union rules on conflicts of interest. instead of accepting this conclusion, mr babiš shamefully attacks the integrity of the commission without any proof. it’s high time to take action against this shameless misuse of eu funding. my question to the commissioner is this: how will you ensure that the more than eur 7 billion that the czech republic is about to receive from the recovery fund will be correctly spent after this massive breach of trust? will the commission publish an exact breakdown of the eu funding received by agrofert and reclaim this money? and to the council, what steps will you undertake to exclude the prime minister from talks or negotiations on the eu budget, as long as the conflict of interest is not resolved? this is not only about millions of euros of taxpayers’ money, it’s about the credibility of our union and of our values.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, firstly i would like to thank my colleagues and especially the rapporteur, ms guillaume, for the excellent cooperation on this report. one crucial element in building a future-proof eu migration policy is creating legal paths of migration. yet it is an element that is often overlooked, and the commission omitting proposals also on labour migration in its migration package last year is clear proof of that. it shows the continued focus on solely the internal dimension of migration – but putting things in place for a solid asylum system in europe is only half the story. the external dimension of migration is even more important to address. the external dimension of migration requires three things: ending irregular migration to the eu that causes so much human suffering in the mediterranean sea; creating decent regional reception and shelters in third countries – asylum by resettlement; and thirdly, to create further legal paths such as migration for labour purposes. in the report that this house will vote on tomorrow, we call on the commission to create new avenues of legal labour migration, and i am especially happy that we included the element of circularity into the report. because it should not be europe’s aim to stimulate the brain drain from third countries. instead, by creating a european talent pool combined with a points-based system, we can create a labour migration system that contributes to brain gain in third countries. i call on the commission to take a close look at this report and take its proposals on board. in the meantime, parliament’s work will not stop here. our next step is a legislative own-initiative report by our rapporteur ms al-sahlani. that will of course take this report as a good basis, and we will continue to work out a future-proof migration system. my only question would be, commission: when will you join us? it is good to hear that the commissioner sent new proposals also in his statement, but we need a real reform, and i want to underline: it needs to be circularity, because that is brain gain for both sides.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for this great and timely report. it often seems if it comes to labour migration that we are sort of paralysed in the eu, stuck between the awareness of demographic developments and the need for more labour migration and, on the other hand, the anti-migration rhetoric by right-wing populist parties. and the result is actually more irregular migration, more exploitation and more inequalities. so it’s time for a rational and inclusive approach. facilitating eu mobility for third-country nationals living in our countries is a win-win policy. it creates more matching opportunities, but also more equal treatment with eu citizens. but also we need more mobility from outside the eu. we not only need highly skilled workers, as just was also emphasised by mr oetjen, but also migrants with a middle- or low-education background. and by granting them strong rights in an eu legal framework, we will facilitate their integration and participation in our societies. we have achieved now a breakthrough with the blue card directive, with stronger mobility rights and equal treatment of highly skilled workers. let’s prepare for the future and take this as a blueprint for migrants with other professions as well.
madam president, mr vice-president, labour migration is an essential element in building a mutually beneficial relationship with the third countries of origin. as you have said, mr vice-president margaritis schinas, migration is part of europe's history. i would like to welcome this report by our colleague sylvie guillaume, which calls for improving the conditions of access to the european labour market for workers in sectors with a shortage of labour. the opening up of new legal economic migration routes will support the competitiveness of the european economy. we need to simplify procedures and speed up the mutual recognition of qualifications and diplomas. however, this policy should not penalise third countries by depriving them of some of their vital resources. with my colleagues in the renew group, we are proposing the establishment of a win-win system, which would make it possible to support the training, directly in third countries, of local workers in the same fields for which we recruit them on the european market. this system, which has already been tested in pilot projects, has had many positive effects. this is a good practice which i would like to bring to the debate and which we could replicate more widely at european level. i would ask the commission, mr vice-president, to take this data into account so that we can have a complete system for organising this legal and organised migration at european level, which we are calling for.
madam president, commissioner, thank you very much, mrs guillaume, without legal and orderly doors to enter the union, we are slaves to our vulnerabilities and suffer from the mafias, from blackmail, as we have seen this week in ceuta, in the crisis provoked with morocco, and we have to mourn the loss of so many human lives. legal migration was "said" to be one of the priorities in 2015, but we have not yet been able to articulate it. and without that pillar, the problem of these mafias, this social pressure in the places of arrival, the asylum caps, the vulnerability to third countries that want to destabilize us is growing. the commission's commitment to include it in the new pact on migration and asylum is a great expectation and we are waiting, commissioner, for a clear and precise road map. talking about labour migration through solid legal channels -- and we've been told to talk in strategic terms -- is one way to improve our labour markets, and renew is very strong on this. a harmonised, non-bureaucratic application procedure is needed for medium, low and high skilled workers, based on a points system, where member states can select specific skills and sectors, all winning. it is clear that the potential of refugees must also be tapped, by allowing them to apply for a labour migration visa once their protection status has expired. the current asymmetrical patchwork of national regulations in the union is and is a weakness in our common space. we change things, we all win.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is, of course, an issue that requires a legal framework, political will and a calm but firm focus in order to overcome our large demographic deadlocks, but also the structural competitiveness gap that we have in europe, both in high-level jobs and in sectors such as health services and agriculture. second comment: contrary to what populists tell us, legal immigration promotes, not threatens, the european way of life. europe provides the framework, the tools, but all those who accept the european framework and come to europe legally must also accept our principles, our values, our social standards. it's a two-way street. we give to them, but they come back respecting our democracy, tolerance, freedom of religion, respect for the neighbor, the role of women in the family, in society and in the economy. third comment: all of these are timeless issues that will also help us with current issues such as migration, the integration of migrants and refugees into our societies, without racism, without discrimination, with respect for history and with a sincere reading of its lessons. today, on 19 may, the day of remembrance for pontic hellenism, these lessons of coexistence, reconciliation and historical memory are even more timely and firm. a final remark for those who have mentioned the emergency situation we are experiencing in ceuta these days. here also have three messages, three simple messages and, i hope, claros. first message: europe is in solidarity with spain? ceuta is europe. second message: our neighbours, the third countries of origin and transit, must understand that for us migration will be central to our association relations in the years to come. these neighbouring and friendly countries must work with us, not against us, on migration. and the third message: we already need a major european agreement on the pact on migration and asylum. we need to look at the situation in ceuta, the canary islands and moria to see that europe must not lose this historic, once again, historic opportunity to reach a broad european consensus on migration.
in writing. it is a recurring phenomenon that we in the european parliament discuss proposals which concern areas where the eu has no competence but is trying to get it. this proposal for a harmonized policy on labour migration is a good example of this. new entry points should be opened for migrants from third countries wishing to come to the eu; the european union is also a major donor to the development of the european social model, and it is not only for migrants with specialised knowledge, but also for large groups of low-skilled workers from countries in africa and the middle east. these migrants can then benefit from family reunification guidelines and exercise their right to free movement between member states. member states are experiencing the effects of mass immigration on a daily basis. the proposal seeks to pave the way for a new mass immigration flow by labelling it 'labour migration' and presenting it as a solution to counter illegal migration. the proposal thus completely ignores the fact that member states themselves have the sovereign right to determine how many migrants they will admit to their territory and that it is up to member states alone to make policies with regard to their national labour markets. the big question is why are we even considering this proposal?
mr president, this report was supposed to address how we shape our digital future and improve the use of ai for consumers, but unfortunately it fails to truly address some of the core issues we see with the use of ai. internet users are manipulated on a daily basis. algorithms decide what we get to see online based on clicks, manipulation and micro—targeting. ‘likes’, notifications and ‘nudges’ manipulate users into certain behaviour like staying on a platform for longer, watching extreme content or buying items they don’t need. it can even lead to addiction. this report does not even mention the manipulation of consumers we witness online today, and even though the ample opinion clearly pointed out the health and safety dangers of being constantly monitored and tracked real—time at work, the report lacks any reference to surveillance of workers or exploitation by algorithmic management. it simply fails to protect the rights of workers. we cannot ignore these crucial issues when we shape our digital future. and then, this report only contains weak texts on transparency and human oversight and vague texts on avoiding prohibited discrimination. we, as legislators, have the responsibility not just to avoid, but to ensure, that everyone is protected against discrimination by ai and that fundamental rights are protected at all times. looking at previous parliamentary positions, this text is an unnecessary step back. we, as the european parliament, need to step up our game, because empty promises will not actually protect european consumers, workers or citizens. clear rules and rights will.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. i'm talking about the youngest users among us: one in three internet users is a child. but are our children as well protected in the digital world? do we think it's normal for children's data to be sold to the highest bidder, for advertisers to target children specifically, and for children to be served alcohol advertisements? i don't think he is. children need to be able to move freely and safely without carrying with them for the rest of their lives a digital footprint many times larger than their own shoe size. of course, everything stands or falls with a good age verification. but this also means that when we are drawing up new rules, whether it is rules on artificial intelligence in educational tools or the requirements we place on computer games, we must look concretely at what a child can and cannot understand and comprehend, and take as a basis not the current self-regulation but scientific findings. after all, young is old.
mr. chairman, no company has become great overnight. it's always a small team at the beginning, and it's a lot of factors that decide whether or not the company grows. in any event, the eu economy depends on the success of no one but smes, which account for 99% of european businesses. i consider today a historic achievement. it's a milestone from which to really start working for smes. i'm honored to have been a part of it. smes must be confident that they will be treated on an equal footing with the big ones and that they will not be mired in unnecessary regulation. creating a level playing field must be a top priority. we all know that this approach was not common and automatic. yes, it has always been the backbone of the european economy, but in reality it is a 'leak'. how many times has the inclusion of smes been added retroactively to the draft legislation? many times, and it was wrong! i'm glad the commission knows we need to take decisive action. the state of the union address on smes is both a symbol and a proof of this. i am convinced that only by accountability and mutual discussion involving those who are concerned, namely small and mediumsized enterprises, can we achieve this. these companies deserve to be a real priority, and we can't let them down. let's get together regularly. let's make this an annual tradition, not an empty one. let's move things along. let's really work for them, small and medium-sized businesses across europe.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). today is the day to take stock: i would like to ask the commissioner whether there is any good news for small and mediumsized enterprises today. and can they expect a reduction in administrative burdens? i am not entirely satisfied with the work of the commission. the task assigned to me and my colleagues has not been taken seriously. it's not a good signal to our entrepreneurs. one line in and one line out is really not enough. it is also not good that the eu is thinking for smes. the eu must give smes the space to be entrepreneurs. less rules, then. my experience after two years in the european parliament is that the space for entrepreneurship must be fought for. and that fight will continue unabated after today. today we have taken a small first step, but we still have a long way to go. i therefore call on the commission to do more and to keep us informed of the concrete steps it is taking to reduce the administrative burden. because our entrepreneurs have a right to it.
mr president, commissioner, last year saw record after record increases in the stock market. but how was that different for many of our smes who suffered so much? and this in the face of the fact that more than 100 million europeans owe their jobs to smes. so we have to make sure that this tracking engine keeps running. and it's good that we're talking today about sustainability and the digitization of these companies. but that can only be done if they have the resources to do so and if they are paid on time, especially now. large companies can negotiate good terms and easily obtain supplier credit. but for smes, the procedures are often cumbersome and the deadlines long. even when it comes to bills that the government itself has to pay. what is the commission going to do about this? and does the sme envoy have this problem on its retina? so, yeah, totally. reducing administrative burdens, ending national standards and providing clear information for entrepreneurs. but governments, just pay your bills on time.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i want to congratulate my colleague, césar luena, and all the others involved in this report. the biodiversity crisis is one of several big crises we have to solve in the coming years next to the climate crisis, and they, of course, are heavily interlinked. even though the effects of the biodiversity crisis are not always directly noticed by human beings – for example, the extinction of certain species or the effects on microorganisms – these changes often have big consequences. biodiversity is more than counting trees. biodiversity loss will directly affect our way of life. there is a high urgency for our planet and our people. maybe one of the few positive things about the recent corona crisis is the fact that many people have reconnected with nature. this has helped us realise that nature is not only important for our ecosystems but also for our well-being. lockdowns have also put a number of insect—harming practices on hold, creating a friendlier world for bees and butterflies: insects that are essential for our ecosystem. humans need nature, and many scientists say it is clear that the earth is entering its sixth mass extinction event, meaning that three quarters of all species could disappear in the coming centuries. so it is high time for the commission to act. with this report, parliament gives a clear job. i am really happy that this report supports targets for protected areas and also legally-binding targets for restoration. this report is fairly balanced and broadly supported by ngos and stakeholders. so i suggest we, as a parliament, do the same and send a strong message for biodiversity today.
president, commissioner, when you talk about biodiversity you are talking about god's creation, for which we all have a responsibility. however, i regret to say that i cannot support the resolution before us. firstly, because the resolution uncritically adopts the very ambitious objectives of the commission, although the commission has not yet shown us any impact assessment for reasons that are not clear. secondly, because studies by the usda show that the biodiversity strategy, together with the farm to fork strategy, leads to a significant reduction in food production and higher consumer prices. thirdly, because the bottom fishing industry is very unfairly stigmatised in this resolution. the practice shows that sustainable fishing and land-based farming can indeed go together. responsible stewardship is a matter of finding the right balance between economy and ecology and that is precisely what is missing from this resolution. i hope that by separate votes we can still correct some of this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, when we started these negotiations two and a half months ago, i said an eu covid-19 certificate only if it guarantees non-discrimination, the highest standards of data protection and it applies only when strictly necessary. the regulation we are voting this week indeed guarantees the highest standards of data protection. it provides that the different certificates must not be treated differently, and as a general rule there shall be no further restrictions unless strictly necessary. i’m happy that we reached an agreement in time for the summer season, giving people more freedom. the infection rates are decreasing and this enables us to open up the countries in a safe way, but we need a harmonised system for that in order to give people certainty and to avoid a fragmented system. and this harmonised system that we have reached in the regulation will only be effective once the member states are going to implement it in a harmonised way, and this is of course a great responsibility for the member states. it’s now up to them to ensure that they do not discriminate between those who have already been vaccinated and those who are still on the waiting list and that they do not impose further travel restrictions, so that people know that their certificates suffice and that the tests are made easily available. we will closely monitor how member states will guarantee these principles, and we already now call upon the commission to start making more funding available for the testing, because the price of our freedom should not depend on the price of a test. we must at all costs avoid inequalities where families, students, young people with low incomes cannot cross the border just because they have not received a vaccine yet. so member states and commission: live up to the objectives of this regulation and we will see to that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let’s start with the positive news from the last summit. there was indeed unified and strong condemnation of belarus kidnapping a plane, and arresting and torturing two of its citizens. it’s good that sanctions were agreed; it’s good that they came swiftly. it was a truly outrageous action by lukashenko and it cannot go unanswered. the eu must be ready to think about further sanctions and to work tirelessly for the release of all political prisoners. we must also step up our support to independent civil society, journalists and peaceful political actors in belarus and ensure that those fighting and risking their lives for democracy find support and protection in the european union. the less good news is actually old news. the council continues, unfortunately, to ignore the climate emergency and once again fell far short of agreeing anything close to the scale of action needed to protect our climate. it is ironic that the council is welcoming the united states’ commitment to the paris agreement and urges increased global action, while at the same time is stepping on the brake on climate targets and on concrete measures. i’m sure there were a lot of preoccupations; i’m sure not many of them were about the climate emergency. we expect more and better of you. going into the cop26 in glasgow, if the eu is to have any credibility and leverage to demand more climate action globally, the level of commitment from the eu side needs to be significantly stepped up. the council also debated the situation of the pandemic, and in europe the numbers indeed look promising and the vaccination efforts are finally picking up, and that’s great – although we should not forget that there is also a significant difference still between members in their vaccination campaigns. but however well we might be doing in europe, we should never forget that many countries globally hardly have any access to vaccines. this is a new gap in global justice, threatening the lives and destroying the livelihoods of many, while also leaving the door open to any variant, which can bring new spirals of problems worldwide. so the slogan of ‘no one is safe until everyone is safe’ finally needs to be filled with life. donations of financial means and vaccines are extremely welcome, but they are also not enough. production needs to be ramped up, and one tool to bring this forward is a temporary trips waiver, with compulsory licensing for countries of the global south and knowledge—sharing that will boost global vaccine production. i think the eu must finally ‘walk its talk’ and provide global leadership in all of those fields, and the g7 summit will be one possibility for that. beyond the nice speeches, the eu must do more. it’s what the world expects of the eu, but it’s also what europeans expect of their leaders – and that’s where we will be holding you accountable.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is not and will never be europe's refugee camp. the italians do not want and cannot accept thousands and thousands of illegal immigrants. the european council has not written a single line in its conclusions on the clandestine emergency affecting italy. no words, no commitments, no concrete actions. nothing, nothing, nothing in the face of the much-vaunted european solidarity. it is scandalous that once again europe is leaving italy completely alone in dealing with the ever-increasing waves of migration. since the beginning of the year, more than 15 000 illegal immigrants have landed in italy. this is an impressive number, seven times more than in 2019, when, thanks to the action of minister salvini, only 2,000 immigrants had landed. if some european bureaucrat thinks he can force italy to take in all of africa, he is very much mistaken. in the face of the guilty flight from europe, italy must do exactly what spain, denmark and malta are doing, all countries with socialist and leftist governments, which are closing ports, barricading borders and sending back illegal immigrants. why can the socialist countries of spain, denmark and malta do this, to the applause of brussels, and italy cannot? why can the spanish socialist government deploy the army and make 5 000 expulsions in one day, but italy cannot? the italian people are not stupid and are tired of being mocked by those in brussels who want to turn our country into a free port for illegal immigrants.
madam president, i would like to welcome president von der leyen and president michel back to the european parliament. president michel, immediately after the hijacking of the european plane over belarus, you led the efforts in the european council to provide a quick and clear answer on behalf of the european union. this, i believe, was very good, but it is clear that we now have to do more. we have to stay united and we have to broaden the sanctions against the inner circle and businesses of interest to mr lukashenko. we have to target sanctions which target and harm the regime, not the people of belarus. we have to cut all funding to the regime of mr lukashenko. we have to stay united and put belarus on the agenda of the un security council and on the g7 agenda. we have to do all we can to obtain the immediate release of all political prisoners in belarus. we have to be very clear that, as long as there is a single dictator on earth, we are all in danger. we could all become a target at one point in time, so the fight for democracy and freedom is a fight that we all have to fight, and we have to fight it together. we have to say very clearly that we intend to be on the side of the people of belarus. we intend to do more and to help them more, but the current belarusian regime is an obstacle in our desire to help the people of belarus. on vaccines, president von der leyen, you rightly described the many good things that we have done as a union, but here too the neighbourhood is important. you mentioned this, president michel. i visited the republic of moldova two weeks ago. my home country, romania, donated 300 000 vaccine doses to the people of moldova. i say very clearly that the people in the neighbourhood will not forget who helped them during the crisis. doing more with vaccines in those countries is the best way to increase support for the eu in the neighbourhood.
madam president, the european union's response and recovery process to the pandemic depends on two deeply interlinked dimensions. on the one hand, the capacity to transform the economy and to strengthen the social dimension in order to combat internal inequalities and improve external competitiveness. on the other hand, the geopolitical impetus to make the european model a benchmark for a fairer globalisation and to promote democratic and humanist values. the european council faced this double challenge and decided in an appropriate and assertive manner. the progress of the european covid-19 digital certificate, the measures to increase global production of vaccines and accelerate their sharing in solidarity with the countries most in need, the increased commitment to combat climate change, the response to the unspeakable hostile action of belarus and the reaffirmation of the defining principles of the relationship with russia. the union's geostrategic relevance is fundamental to achieving a better quality of life for our citizens. good decisions are fundamental. the touchstone, however, is the ability to put into practice what is decided. that is our top priority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am thinking of the council meeting of 24 and 25 may, and i see that the emphasis is not on important issues of importance to our continent, such as combating unemployment, or the wave of bankruptcies that is sweeping our continent, or the growing migration crisis. no, it is a continuation of the emphasis that the european union is once again putting its moral high ground on others instead of focusing on its own major problems. and when it comes to being a head teacher and criticizing others, there are different categories. for example, when i look at turkey, where human rights are also seriously lacking, where journalists are also imprisoned, where women's rights are not respected - of course, there is a persistent silence. turkey is still being treated as a candidate country and is being given billions. here in belarus, the clocks are different. i don't want to apologize to anyone, or blame anyone. but what i want to do is to arouse your sensitivity, to arouse your attention to the fact that the real task - where we should act together - should be to provide this european union, this continent with prosperity and to guarantee the rights of freedom.
president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, at the meeting of heads of government, the european council, climate change was again on the agenda. the eu wants to be climate neutral by 2050. i wonder how that works, talking behind closed doors about policies where all logic is lacking. chancellor merkel is at the table. it is closing all nuclear power stations in its country and switching to brown coal, whereas nuclear energy is co2-neutral and does not cause air pollution. prime minister de croo of belgium is on his way. he wants to go back to burning fossil fuels by replacing nuclear power with gas. prime minister rutte will also take his seat. he wants to get rid of gas and compensate by filling land and sea with environmentally harmful wind turbines and solar grasslands. the conference also shake hands with the public about the large-scale burning of forests in biomass power stations, which the eu's climate book says is sustainable. ladies and gentlemen, these politicians say they're saving the world, but they really don't understand a thing.
mr president, all eu citizens have the right to be protected against arbitrariness and corruption and to have their rights protected by independent courts. we have those safeguards on paper, but paper reality doesn’t protect people. so it’s high time that the eu institutions take our own rules seriously. council and parliament have enabled the commission to act as a reliable and effective guardian of the treaty. but this comes with a big responsibility. if rule of law is at stake, the competence to enforce compliance transforms into an obligation to act, and we don’t have time to lose any more. parliament has already made it clear: we don’t accept hesitance or fake political considerations. our eu money may never facilitate corrupt or autocratic regimes. we will bring the commission to court in case of inaction. but we also call upon the member states to join us and to show that the eu is united and ready to protect the citizens and protect the eu budget.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, online hatred against women is a major problem if we want women to participate in politics and to decide their future. i remember well the first reactions on social media when i had just announced my candidacy for the european elections. it made me realize then that i was going to face a difficult time as a young politician of color. once women in politics show ambition, they can be dismissed as unfit. social media is important to use because of the digital world we're in, but it shouldn't be used shamelessly and without consequence to commit crimes or to show a lack of decency. bullying, threats and making sexist and racist comments are not normal in the physical world, and so we should not accept them in the online world. i want us to work on strong legislation against this in the coming period. the consequences are too far out. people can attack women in politics anonymously. this is cowardly. in an attic room behind your laptop, it's easy to project personal frustrations onto us as women. let it be clear that the women's movement in politics is growing stronger and stronger. the purpose of this online hate is to censor us. a way to silence him. a danger to emancipation and our democracy. so i call on all women with political ambitions to continue to stand up for your ambitions and make them come true. politics is your place, too. together we are strong.
madam president, the resolution on ‘ending the cage age’ is also calling for financial support and guidance for european farmers. working hand in hand with farmers is key to a successful transition. no one wants to leave the farmers out in the cold. we want to help them to switch to more sustainable and humane systems. and for this, proper funds are needed. financial support and incentives already exist. the rural development pillar of the common agricultural policy (cap) can be used for animal welfare measures. but unfortunately, on average, member states use only one or two percent of the second pillar for this purpose. in the next cap, appropriate funds should be earmarked, and really used for animal welfare. and we don’t want nonsense measures, or minimal improvement, like the enrichment of cages. citizens expect the next cap to bring real change in animal farming.
president, commissioner, it is always good to keep thinking about even better and more animal-friendly stall systems. but it would be wrong to do so without consulting the farmer. he knows best what is desirable and what is possible. for example, the stalls for sows are often designed to prevent the animals from choking their piglets to death. we can all feel sorry for them, because they have a little less freedom of movement for a while, but the protection of newborn piglets must be worth something to us. it is also wrong to exclude animal health and farmers' incomes from the calculations. and it certainly goes wrong if we lose sight of the importance of a level playing field. then production moves to countries outside the european union, especially if we continue to allow imports of eggs for example from hatcheries. i don't know who that makes happy. at least not the animals.
president, commissioner, secretary of state, europe has been faced with a huge problem for years: the large-scale influx of asylum seekers, mostly young men from safe countries. it leads to inhuman situations at our external borders and to major problems in our towns and villages. it would be logical to be open to all possible solutions to prevent these conditions, but the european commission has not learned that lesson. the well-thought-out plan of the danish minister for immigration - himself the son of an ethiopian refugee - to take in asylum seekers outside europe on the basis of good agreements with third countries was thrown out of the commission without serious consideration. it is incomprehensible, because the danish way of life can ensure the right to seek asylum and reduce the sucking power of europe. i would therefore like to say the following to the council. do not be like the european commission. prevent human smuggling and humanitarian disasters at our external borders. protect europe and embrace the danish plan.
the president, commissioner, it is good that agreements have been reached on the cohesion and structural funds. this will enable us to continue to invest in innovation, the strength of regional economies, crossborder cooperation and sustainable economic growth in regions lagging behind in the years ahead. and that's in the best interest of all of us. however, i do not think that the support from the cohesion funds is free of obligations for member states. i believe that we can stop the cohesion funds from coming to governments which are misusing european money or putting it in the wrong pockets, which are not keeping their commitments to sound public finances or which are structurally undermining the rule of law, democracy and freedom of the press. i think that it is unacceptable to give up on european funding on the one hand and to abandon agreements on the other. only when we stand up for our shared values, we stand strong together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, thanks a lot to our rapporteur for the great negotiations and the good result. almost every week we are reminded of the need for an effective policy to protect our eu citizens against attacks on the rule of law, corruption, muzzling judges, oppressing media and civil society, restricting universities, anti—lgbti measures. we see these alarming developments in more and more countries, and we should never accept that these violations belong to the eu. so we welcome the first annual rule of law report, which is an important basis for action – though of course, i fully concur with mr šimečka that we really hope next time to also see the analysis of the fundamental rights situation. nevertheless, as this is an important basis for action, this is also one of my main criticisms: the report is too descriptive, it lacks clear conclusions, and it fails to link an analysis of the rule of law situation with actions the commission will undertake. but this is actually also what the report is for, and i’m happy that the commissioner also acknowledged this in his speech. so i really hope for improvement during the next reports. in the next reports, we want to see the commission acting vigilantly and consistently using the complete toolbox, including not granting, cutting or withdrawing eu funding. money language is the best understood. so this also implies the disclosure of which eu budgets are at stake, related to which violations. zero tolerance is vital, as we see that impunity makes autocrats more brutal and inspires others to disrespect the rule of law. so let us finally fight for our values unambiguously – the commission, the council, the member states and parliament.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report and the good cooperation. the future of bosnia and herzegovina belongs in the eu. i just heard mr várhelyi say that. but it’s also what the eu leaders promised already in 2003. but in reality, accession is still far away. we failed to resolve dayton’s highly ineffective governance structure based on ethnic division and distrust. strategy, guidance and courage is what we need now. we can and should be the promoters of equality, democracy and the rule of law. without a functioning democracy with equal rights for all and true involvement of civil society, bosnia can never become an eu member state. as a parliament, we should therefore avoid any reference to privileged rights of the so-called ‘three constituent peoples’. for rebuilding trust in bosnian society and politics, we must strongly reject and combat ethno-nationalistic rhetoric and policies and instead support constitutional changes and work towards the 14 key priorities and accession criteria. i urge you, colleagues, let the parliament’s voice be based on inclusion, democracy and trust instead of ethnic division and anti-democratic rhetoric.
president, control over your own body, sexual education for young people, access to modern contraceptive and menstrual products, safe abortion assistance. why do people try to make these fundamental rights, which empower women, controversial again? and i find it incredible that female colleagues are on the bench. you should be ashamed of yourselves. is this what you're giving to the next generation of women and girls after you? the same fundamental debate was held in the 1970s, when there was a revolutionary movement in which feminists took to the streets with the text "boss in his own belly". and the fact that 50 years later we still have to defend women's right to self-determination shows that the progress we have made is being reversed. and still today a religious, conservative movement in europe is trying to delegitimize the right of women to decide about their sexual health here in parliament. but let me be clear: i can guarantee you, you're losing this fight. you're not taking away our rights. and we are simply too many.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left behind. the best way to support european cooperation is to show the results of european cooperation. and in the field of supercomputing, the european union is doing well. we need the power of supercomputers for our economy of the future. we must not depend on others to do this as the european union. but we were. in 2016, there was only one computer in the european union that could compete with the best in the world. now, five years later, the picture is quite different. three of the top five supercomputers will be in europe by the end of this year. the result of successful european cooperation between public authorities, knowledge institutions and industry. we're becoming less dependent on others and making sure that our knowledge economy is ready for the future. and that is a great result of european cooperation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, when i became a member of parliament, many colleagues were reluctant to commit to a 55% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. i had set myself the goal of working on legislation that would enshrine our european climate objective and thus form the cornerstone of the european green deal. where there was much doubt, there is now a broadly accepted view. i think that's really an achievement, an achievement that also comes from the vision presented in the european green deal, where we approach climate change not as a threat, but as an opportunity. let us reflect on this historic moment and on this legislation, which, with our approval, becomes a reality. the fact that we're turning our ambitions into a climate bill is a fantastic start. this law provides a sufficient basis to comply with the paris agreement with confidence and inspire the world at the upcoming climate conference to follow our example. as a social democrat, i am very pleased that many of our ideas have been adopted. that's how we're going to have a carbon budget. it tells us exactly how much we're allowed to emit to meet the paris agreement. and we are setting up a scientific council to monitor that budget and also the plans of the eu and the member states, and to measure progress. i also welcome the sectoral roadmaps. but we're not there yet. it's important to realize that this climate bill is not the end, but the beginning. it's time to move on and answer the how questions. how are we going to reduce our emissions? how can we be more efficient in our use of energy? how do we give a boost to the hydrogen economy? how can we make our way of producing and consuming more circular? for that, we need the "fit for 55" package. that should help us answer the how questions. with that plan, we're going to encourage our industry to invest in the greenest technologies. we ask them not to seek short-term profits but to seek the greater successes that we can achieve together in the long term, successes that will make our economy future-proof and bring us technological progress. the climate bill is the capstone to which all this legislation is hanging. ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to be committed to the climate, and that starts today with supporting this climate law. if you vote against today, you vote against progress.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i come from an industrial region and i want the european union to promote and protect its industry. in this context, i have heard this morning a lot of concern about prosperity and jobs. but i am convinced that we have the technologies today, and we also have the political tools to make the transition to the post-fossil age a success -- not without effort, but without fear. hydrogen - especially hydrogen from renewable energy sources - can play a very, very important role in this. we need to develop renewable energy sources, as we expect the commission to do in the red iii directive. that means that in these proposals, in this fit-for-55 package, the climate law must also be made concrete in the end. and i think that's where our goals need to be a little bit more committed. if the development of renewable energy is the key to the transformation of our industrial society, then i believe that these development goals must be formulated with commitment. that is what i expect from the commission. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposed aid, but it is still not yet known whether the aid will be granted. (the president cut the speaker off)
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a major threat. it's affecting our environment. it's putting pressure on our food production. it's not only causing more migration, it's also bad for our nature. we need to tackle this challenge globally. i am therefore in favour of having a climate law at european level. an individual country like the netherlands, mine, cannot do it alone. we also prevent companies from moving to other countries to avoid the strict dutch climate regulations. it's going to cost jobs and it's not going to solve the climate problem. we must instead focus on innovation and technology. that is precisely where the netherlands and the european union are good. we also need to make sure that the climate measures are carried out by the people at home. it is important that climate policy is effective and remains affordable. and we have to be careful not to over-combine things.
president, commissioner, secretary of state, colleagues, the drumroll with which the european climate law is defended here is completely misplaced. this 'law of laws', as mr timmermans calls it, is notably entirely driven by ngos and demands a total transformation of our economy and society, and thus has a huge impact on the lives of citizens. this law will be in effect for the next 30 years. such european superlaws are the new means of sidelining national decisionmaking. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. what kind of representatives are we, ladies and gentlemen, if we are silencing the people in this way? this is fundamentally undemocratic. policy including eu climate policy should be the subject of a permanent debate. decisions must be capable of being amended or corrected and the voter must always have the last word. i'm here to represent our citizens, not to sideline an entire generation. and that is why i am voting against this eu climate law.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear prime minister janša, dear commission president and dear colleagues, let me start by taking the opportunity to thank the portuguese presidency for the last six months. we now have a climate law, we can use our eu digital covid certificate when we cross borders and we are working towards a real eu agency for asylum. let’s hope the next six months will be as productive. the priorities mentioned by the slovenian presidency seem to give some hope. you will strive to facilitate the eu’s recovery and reinforce its resilience. you want to reflect on the future of europe, strengthen the rule of law and european values, and increase security and stability in the european neighbourhood. i think it is very easy to combine the latter three. but i’m afraid, mr janša, that your track record at home means that we cannot take your words for granted. why don’t you start reflecting on the future of europe by abiding by the rule of law, upholding our values yourself? don’t you think our internal security and stability would increase? unfortunately, you seem to want to be part of a very sinister club that doesn’t appreciate free media, that can’t stomach the independence of judiciary or respecting lgbtiq rights at all. a whiff of corruption, nepotism and fraud never seems to be far away from this club, you so desperately want to associate yourself with. you talk the talk, but you don’t walk the walk mr janša. even when you presented your priorities to the commission last week you could not resist petty politics, talking down on judges and mep’s, our colleagues in the house, mr janša. i wish more commissioners would have joined frans timmermans and would have left you standing there in self-pity. dear prime minister, you remind me of vladimir bartol when he wrote: ‘nothing is an absolute reality, all is permitted.’ we all admire his work, but you sir take it too literally. upholding the rule of law is an adamant reality for us. so please stop harassing journalists and judges. stop appointing your political friends in the police force. and start appointing an eppo prosecutor. the commission should have never approved your next generation eu money before an independent slovenian prosecutor is added to the eppo. we will ask the council to make the commission’s wrong right and not approve your funds before this is done. dear prime minister, we do want to work with you. renew does want to help you make this presidency a success. but we will do so based on the proof or your own words ‘strengthen the rule of law and european values’. so please, show us you mean it, and you will find a helping hand in our group. we want to work with you on the fit for 2030 package. we want to finally start tackling the migration crisis. we want to work on the dsa and the dma, and build a health union together. but none of this can ever work in a europe that’s lost its values, its core beliefs. so, you need to drag yourself out of the darkness and into the light and you will meet us with open arms once you get there.
madam president, as a parliament, it is very important today to send a clear message to this presidency. we need to continue to work together to make sure that our european strategic plans, like the european green deal, do not get delayed. we simply cannot waste time. dear prime minister, i urge you to make the european green deal and the fit for climate package, as they say in german ‘chefsache’. this package will assure that we significantly decrease our carbon footprint and show the world we have realistic plans that can inspire us all. we need to focus on the long-term successes we can achieve instead of the short-term profits. we need to transform our industry, making it the most sustainable and most competitive in the world. create future-proof jobs and decrease our dependency on foreign fossil fuels. we need jobs, new jobs in east, south, north and western europe. next to this, another important task, as you mentioned, in your presidency programme and also related to this, will be the preparation of the cop 26 in glasgow, a ‘make or break’ cop. we need a strong european presence. we need high ambition, and we need to make sure that the national contributions meet and match the paris agreement. dear prime minister, everyone can make a promise, but it takes leadership to take action and action is what we need. thank you and the very best of success.
i have to say, madam president, it is now crystal clear that when it comes to cyberattacks and hybrid threats, we in the european community are crystal clear that we are helpless. we are currently unable to respond effectively to the constant attacks on our democracy, including disinformation or cyber attacks on key it infrastructures. that is why it makes sense, as has been said by several speakers - and i share that view - to develop the necessary instruments so that we can punish countries, so that we can take action against countries that commit crimes against us in cyberspace. and we should probably consider whether it would not be possible to adopt sanctions by a qualified majority in the council. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. is this something that the high representative would be able to accept, is this something that is being worked on?
mr president, we are talking today about foreign influence on the democratic process. and rightly so. it makes our democracies vulnerable. however, how does the eu influence the democratic process in the member states themselves? for example, structural support for pro-eu think tanks. the commission has already done so. it receives eur 350 000 a year. the european movement international is supported by eur 400 000 per year. the european policy centre: eur 250 000 per year for the period from 1 january to 31 december. the latter two had 'citizens' representatives' present at the plenary session of the conference on the future of europe. so, what about influencing your own democratic process? to what extent is the eu steering this? in conclusion, let us be vigilant indeed to external influences, but also remain critical of the policies of the eu itself.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, ladies and gentlemen! there are parts of the world that are looking for confrontation with europe. they don't like the european way of life. the reasons for this are very, very different. they can be ideological motives, political motives. it could also be economic motives. you're always very, very short-sighted. and yet this confrontation is sought by both state actors and non-state actors. we, as the european union, are consistently defending ourselves against this confrontation, which is expressed in disinformation and which is expressed in the influence exercised on our liberal democracies in europe from outside europe, but which is supported in many ways from within europe. and we need to see that today, by raising awareness, we create an understanding of what it means when hatred and discord are sown in social media channels, when institutions that are democratically legitimized and rule of law are sown in discord, and that europe is weakening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. because european unity is a great strength, division is the means to weaken europe. we won't let that happen! and one last point: we are not looking for confrontation. the european way is the way of cooperation. we know inwardly that this is what creates prosperity and peace, and we know geopolitically. in the long run, it's the cooperation.
madam president, mr high representative, this european parliament has set up a special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, in particular disinformation, because democracy matters to us. and because we care, we've directed this oral question to you. because it is the european external action service, under its responsibility, that has so far provided the operational definition of disinformation, which is not the dissemination of unpleasant opinions but of false facts with the intention of manipulating and altering the process of democratic will formation. and because the european external action service of the european union is the only one that has so far provided a tool, which are the stratcom working groups, whose mandate needs to be strengthened. and we also want to know what we need to do to strengthen the sanctions regime, not only against states but also against non-state actors who are behind the manipulation of democratic will, and so that those sanctions can be imposed more effectively, overcoming the limitations of unanimity, by qualified majority.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr borrell, in any case, cannot become a black swan. since 2018, european cyber action has been a joint diplomatic response to malicious activities in cyberspace. now, there is no assignment of responsibility to any of the countries of the cyberattackers' nationality. even in the cases we have demonstrated of chinese, north korean and russian nationals, sanctions do not affect their states or governments. there is no attribution of responsibility to a state, not even in the case of the main center for special technologies of the main command of the general staff of the armed forces of the russian federation, also known by the code 74455 is easier, which is considered responsible for various cyberattacks. the fbi, on the other hand, associates iran and china with such activities. we europeans play with a hand on our back and a blindfold in the face of the real language of power, which is also that of sanctions. lavrov, putin and xi jinping are no doubt smiling at the sanctions we have imposed on the cyberattacks we have suffered. now, will the member states consider the real hybrid risk? how do you intend to improve sanctions to reach the real brains behind these cyberattacks?
the european elections, the elections in the member states, are at the heart of the democratic process in the european union. foreign interference and the spread of disinformation are a particular threat to our democracies, and the integrity of the electoral process is undermined by the rapid growth of disinformation and disruptive online campaigns. disinformation destabilises and threatens european democracy and we must understand that this is not a short-term threat. the statcom working groups of the european external action service have proved to be a very valuable tool. however, the checks and counter checks, yes, but also the coordination, which we may have lacked, we must equally provide support in both human capacities and that actual financial support for their operation. i would particularly like to stress the importance of also focusing on the european union's neighbourhood in order to be able to respond adequately and comprehensively to the challenges and threats we face. the six countries of the western balkans share the vision of a european future and they must not be forgotten. and i'll conclude by saying that if we know that the legitimacy of the european union rests on democratic foundations then we must preserve them by suppressing undemocratic methods and that means doing more for those on whom democracy depends and that is informed citizens.
madam president, in 2016 in the uk and italy, in 2017 in france, during the covid-19 crisis in several countries, we have witnessed serious interference that weakens our democratic life and supports nationalist and populist forces of the far left and the far right. and the speeches made today by some of the members of this house, from the ecr, the idf and the left, only confirm all this. but the fact is very clear: russia has been playing a dangerous game for too long. other countries have joined, most notably china and venezuela. europe must be there. we must fully integrate disinformation into the common foreign policy and decide by majority on sanctions in the event of interference. proven foreign funding of political parties must be continuously identified and blocked. to take up what you said, mr high representative: while it is good to be right for a while, it is even better to act.
the president, mr borrell, is holding a debate on the introduction of the euro into the workings of the european union. i believe, however, that there have been efforts to bring the cruinnis back. the idea is to bring the two sides together, to make sure that each of them has a clear and coherent vision of the european parliament, and that the european parliament is involved. i was a member of the council, a member of the european parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national council, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a national parliament, a national assembly, a national parliament, a parliament, a member of the national parliament, a parliament, a parliament, a national assembly, a parliament, a member of a parliament, a parliament, a parliament, a member of a parliament, a national assembly, a parliament, a member of a parliament, a the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment by regulating the use of certain substances in the production of certain foodstuffs. until now, i had never seen such a struggle against an enemy from within. i'd like to see you after i'm done with you.
madam president, for too long, this parliament has endured unauthorised election observations and dubious friendship groups. staff members with ties to foreign authorities pose a serious risk of an internal security breach. accreditation of foreign delegations and their lobbyists to the european parliament requires more transparency. it’s necessary to take action. recently, parliament’s democracy support and election coordination group (deg) set sanctions on several meps who have observed elections on their own, but giving the impression that they were sent by parliament. recently, i wrote a letter, together with raphaël glucksmann, chair of the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation (inge committee) to the president. we asked for tougher action. we want to have a dedicated advisory group that would contribute to a more effective response overall. the only way to stem foreign interference is to increase transparency and combine that with effective sanctions.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, thank you to all the members who have taken part in this exciting debate, which, for me in particular, more than interests me, passionates me, because i share what many of you have said about the existential threat this poses to democracy. but you will also have noticed, as i said, that there have been voices here denouncing a new mccarthyism or the will to control and prevent the free flow of information. we heard it. there have been members here who have said: 'no, no, no, this is a new mccarthyism, a new witch hunt, a new will to control from power.' we have heard a lot about foreign interference: "it's russia and china's fault". but there have also been members who have rightly pointed out that we have the problem within ourselves too, that we manufacture disinformation within our societies too and that many political decisions have been taken on the basis of an intense campaign of disinformation, which is a polite way of saying 'lie': on the basis of an intense campaign of lies. and someone has mentioned brexit. and it is true, and it is true. one of the great arguments used by the brexiteers who were here a short while ago, and without which the outcome of the vote would certainly have been different - and they themselves have acknowledged this - was the story that, outside the european union, the british would receive i don't know how many billions of pounds with which they could improve their health system and, instead of the europeans taking the money away from them, they could improve public systems in the uk. and the same people who told this story, the day after the vote, went on television, with all the impudence in the world, to say, "no, that wasn't true, it was a miscalculation, i was wrong. no, no, the numbers weren't these. so, what do we do? do we sanction them? do you realise how a landmark decision for europe too could have been taken on the basis of an intense disinformation campaign, which was not made by putin or xi, but by us within our own societies? how many times have people not been told stories, and in my country - the country i know best, but i don't want to go into it - we have recently experienced cases like these, of flute players in hamelin telling fairy tales? that's disinformation too. so let's not just look at what comes to us from the outside. let's also do some self-criticism and ask ourselves how much in our own political debate we use disinformation systematically. and that, of course, requires means of control. but be careful, about the means of control, someone has warned: "mccarthyism and the will to control"... no, the will to contrasts, the will to contrasts, that the citizen can know whether something is true or not when he is told, because he can decide based on whether he believes it or not. and that's why we need to have systems that contrast; that contrast what is said with reality. and when you say that, you are accused of wanting to create - as has sometimes been said - a kind of "ministry of truth", a public body that decides what is true or not. it's not that, but fighting misinformation, essentially, is deciding how to inform people about what's true and what's not. and that requires specialized technicians, constant, continuous monitoring, and delicate contrast. and you have spoken of sanctions. yes, it is certainly important not to let the one who misinforms go unpunished. it is not enough to have the political sanction that 'next time i will not vote for you', because the next time is too late. what are we gonna do? how do we punish the one who tells chinese stories, on the basis of which people make momentous decisions, and who the next day admits that he lied or that he was wrong, which turns out to be the same thing? we need to impose sanctions, we need a sanctions regime, but we need to be very clear about how we implement it, how we define "disinformation", how we measure it, where the red lines are with regard to freedom of information. and all these issues have to be carefully measured to make sure that the instruments we put in place are instruments that are perfectly compatible with legality and with the democratic system. yeah, we don't have it today. we need it, but we know - and i would not like you to think that it is as easy as establishing a sanctions regime against human rights violators in nicaragua - that we must define clearly conceptually what we mean when we talk about disinformation. because manipulating information is not illegal today. this is a substantive aspect of how we approach a sanctions system to defend both the right to truth and freedom of information, the right to truth and freedom of information. we're working on it and it's not easy, believe me. we are looking for ways of devising instruments - which we do not have - that will enable us to act together with the member states, together with the member states, because we cannot do it alone at the level of the european union, to find legal definitions that will allow us to define sanction systems that will at the same time defend the right to know the truth and the right to information. and borders are not easy to define. the court of auditors' report is not as bad as some of you have said. on the contrary, it supports a lot the work we are doing and has some shortcomings, such as, for example, that it ends up analyzing the action plan against disinformation in 2018 and has not been able to take into account subsequent events, which are very rich, such as the joint communication on the fight against disinformation about covid-19 that we have launched, because, since there was no disinformation about covid-19, since the citizen was not bombarded with false information, which could even endanger his health, about what the virus was and how it could and should be fought against. the commission has not been able to evaluate this action plan and i believe it is an important contribution to the fight against disinformation. do we have any more means? yes, we have more means. we have begun to develop activities outside our initial mandate, which i have already explained to you was limited to the eastern european and russian aspects. we've added more personnel to our teams, particularly specialists in disinformation from china. we have more financial resources, we have distributed them among our delegations. i do not want to overwhelm you with numbers, but we are going to reach a number of forty people and some of them - as i say - are specialized in geographical areas where we had very little capacity. but do not look for the solution to the problem at the european level alone. if the member states, each of them, do not commit themselves to their own capabilities, there is no way to solve the problem. and that's why we've created the early warning system and the network that communicates to all of us. and that is why we need, yes, better coordination between the work of the intergovernmental pillar and the community pillar, between the activities of the commission aimed at internal disinformation and those of the eeas aimed at external disinformation, knowing that the border between the internal and the external in this world of cyber communication is something that is sometimes impossible to delimit: 'no, this comes from within; no, this comes from outside ...' look, it comes from where it comes from, and a lot of times you don't know where it comes from. so yes, i accept the challenge and the questions you ask: "and how is he going to do it?" well, by doing. by increasing our ability to trace and track, to know where it comes from and to keep track of it; by creating more efficient and more resilient systems in our societies; by better equipping our delegations and our missions: by increasing our international partnership. and certainly working to provide a system that imposes costs on those who generate disinformation, on the actors of disinformation, knowing two things: that many of these actors are beyond our control, because they are outside and we can never reach them and sanction them efficiently, and that others are inside and are part of our political game. and you will see that the day we start saying that we will impose sanctions on those who skew the political debate by spreading lies, we will meet with the reactions that we have seen here today, saying: "be careful, wait a minute, you are a macartist". so we are treading on a minefield that will have to be given a lot of political attention, not only material and human resources, but also, not only computers that filter information, detect where it comes from and point out what is not true and disseminate it. because, you know what? lies circulate at a rate a thousand times faster than the truth - a thousand times faster. you throw a lie and see how quickly it spreads. they deny the lie the next day and see the difficulties they have in getting it to spread at the same speed and reach the same number of people who have been contaminated by the lie. believe me, this is a problem that needs to be addressed more than just by occasional debate. it's more than just having three more analysts. it is an essential problem which the european union alone on the union level alone will not be able to tackle, but whose action is essential to coordinate the response of the member states. and that is why i welcome this debate. the means at our disposal are greater today than last year. we can do more, we will do more. we will work on a system that imposes costs on the actors of disinformation and we will try to make our societies as capable of fighting the virus of falsehood as we are of fighting the virus of biological disease. because it is the survival of our political system that is at stake. and i thank them both for their critical demand and their willingness to support.
in writing. elections in the member states are the most important component of our democracies. the union institutions claim that there is a recurrent and systematic foreign interference in this democratic process. fake news and propaganda campaigns can indeed undermine the stability of our democracies, which is why the ep's special committee is looking at the phenomenon and how to combat it. at the same time, it is regrettable that it ignores the intervention and influence actions of ngos that have deliberately taken the political path. in many cases, these ngos, without any democratic accountability, influence elections or sovereign states' decision-making by spreading false news. for example, the same few ngos have been spreading reports that have been openly or covertly attacking the hungarian government for years with omissions and misinterpretations.
author. – madam president, the european parliament has been consistently calling for an eu-wide mechanism which would allow for imposing targeted sanctions against individuals and entities that are involved in grave human rights violations. therefore, i welcome last year’s adoption of the eu global human rights sanctions regime, which some of us in this house prefer to call simply the eu magnitsky act. this regime should be part of a coherent and clearly defined strategy that considers the foreign policy objectives of the eu. it needs to reflect new challenges and threats to human rights violations such as corruption, abuse of state emergency powers or violence against human rights defenders. we as the european parliament would like to see an efficient and consistent use of the sanctions regime, with decisions in the council taken by the qualified majority vote. with this in mind, i would like to address the high representative and the european commission with the following questions. number one: what are the experiences in implementing the eu global human rights sanctions regime? what is its place in the eu’s external policy toolbox and how does it relate to other eu sanctions frameworks? number two: how are the uniformity of criteria and consistency ensured in the regime’s implementation, especially with regard to the listing and delisting of persons, entities and bodies? number three: how does the european external action service plan to involve parliament? number four: will the european external action service (eeas) set up an eu-level advisory committee and outline guidelines for the involvement of civil society organisations in proposing and providing evidence? does the eeas envisage a mechanism for protecting those organisations or individuals? number five: would the commission consider enlarging the scope of the regime, taking into account the united kingdom’s new global anti-corruption sanctions regime? number six: would the external action service and the commission be ready to reintroduce the proposal to use qualified majority voting to impose sanctions? and finally, question number seven: what cooperation has been undertaken with like—minded countries? what will be done to ensure close cooperation and consistency with external judicial institutions and international supervisory and monitoring structures in implementing the regime?
author. madam president, it is true that this may seem a little strange, since this general mechanism of sanctions in the event of serious human rights violations was a request from the european parliament. and already, we are going to want to make changes or ask for more. first of all, i should like to say that the european parliament welcomed this general regime of sanctions for serious human rights violations which the high representative presented to the council and which was finally adopted by the council. it is precisely because we consider it to be an important instrument for the european union's foreign policy that we feel it is necessary to clarify certain points, but also to strengthen it in certain respects. that is why, with my colleague mr mcallister, the afet committee and the subcommittee on human rights, we wanted this resolution and a number of questions. as david mcallister has done, we therefore ask - and we feel it is necessary - that the european parliament be given a greater role in establishing this process. i think it is important that we have this discussion, but above all, in the long run, that we can follow this mechanism. we must also eventually review the unanimous decision of the council which does not seem to us to be the most effective decision in terms of decision-making. we also need a clear methodology to draw up lists, but also to discharge a certain number of people, to know exactly how things could go. it is also a question of ensuring that corruption is integrated into the mechanism. so it's true, we had debates about whether to integrate corruption into the mechanism or to have a specific mechanism. i think what we can say is that the characteristics of corruption must be dealt with very quickly because they are inseparable from the question of human rights violations. it is also important to have cooperation with partner countries because we cannot effectively be the refuge for people who would have been sanctioned by some and by similar mechanisms to be the refuge in europe for those people who could find shelter on european territory. finally, policy coherence is needed: how can we ensure that this general mechanism of sanctions for serious violations is integrated into a set of instruments which are foreign policy instruments, which of course must be coherent? all these questions are in the oral question, but also in our resolution.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, ms arena, mr mcallister, honourable members, i very much welcome the opportunity to continue the dialogue on the eu global human rights sanction regime. i would like to acknowledge the important role that the european parliament has played and continues to play in this matter. from the outset, high representative vice-president borrell has said that this regime allows us to stand up for human rights in a determined manner by connecting actions to our words. the high representative made the first two proposals ensuring the swift operational use of the eu global human rights sanction regime, translating political commitment into tangible action. we have taken decisive actions to address serious human rights violations and abuses ranging from torture, extrajudicial execution and killings to enforced disappearance of persons, arbitrary arrests or detentions or systematic use of forced labour taking place in china, russia and the democratic people’s republic of korea, libya, south sudan and eritrea. we’re all aware of the retaliatory measures taken by china and russia, and we have been clear that these are simply unacceptable. sanctions are not an end in itself. they form a part of a wider policy approach in order to bring about the change in conduct from those responsible or involved in serious human rights abuses and this does not happen overnight. we have defined a coherent, ambitious and multifaceted approach. the eu global human rights sanction regime is an important element in delivering on the eu action plan for human rights and democracy 2020-2024, which sets out the overall strategy in this field for the next five years. in many ways, we are still very much at the beginning of the journey under this regime. about six months after its establishment, it might be still too early to already make an in-depth assessment. however, it is clear that this sanction regime has already solicited strong reaction, an indication of the impact of sanctions under this regime. the listing criteria are clearly defined under this regime. any possible change to the scope of the regime, for instance the question whether to include corruption or not is for the council to decide by unanimity. the initial focus has been to start implementing the current regime. as you know, the high representative proposed to use qualified-majority voting for the adoption of new listings but not all member states agreed to this. the high representative continues to believe that the greater use of qualified-majority voting not only in this regime, but in common foreign and security policy overall could bring considerable benefits and make decisions faster and more efficient. he will continue to discuss this with member states. supporting civil society organisations is a cornerstone of our eu human rights policy. we very much welcome any contribution of civil society to provide possible evidence. the eeas service has regular contact with them and stands ready to guide them on how best to prepare such evidence. like-minded countries such as the united states, the uk or canada have an ongoing interest to work together with the eu to maximise the impact of our respective human rights sanction regimes. this is an interest that we share and we maintain an open dialogue with them. thank you for the introductory words.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good that since december last year we have had the possibility of using this sanctions regime to sanction individuals who have been guilty of serious human rights violations. it is an advantage that we do not have to sanction an entire country at a time, but can apply it very specifically against individual offenders. but - and this has been mentioned before - the mechanism is incomplete in our view. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm flexible about that. but on the matter itself, i think it's right that we include corruption in this. another shortcoming is certainly unanimity, and we should talk to the member states concerned about this. it is not possible to be objective when, in an extreme case, 26 member states agree that a human rights violation has been committed and one member state says otherwise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore think that we should also go through the normal legislative procedure when we are proposing an amending regulation. that is to say, there is a proposal from the commission, which then goes to the council and parliament, and then it is decided in the codecision procedure. and then, i think, we will be able to include corruption on the one hand, but also to talk to the member states concerned, who have so far been against the abolition of unanimity.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the european parliament has called for an instrument such as the magnitsky act, a law that punishes human rights violations, but important issues remain unresolved, and that is why we are here today in this debate. one of them is very important: to look at corruption within this law. because we also have experience that senior officials and political leaders identified as part of the repressive apparatus in dictatorial regimes are, at the same time, identified as the authors of corrupt, financial, business networks. it is very difficult to separate this, ladies and gentlemen, because corruption sustains repression and repression feeds corruption. so this is a topic that we will continue to work on and insist on. but we also need to implement sanctions in parallel. and we must not forget that it is the council which implements them, and parliament must have the right to monitor and control. but in addition to this, we must improve the mechanisms for bringing those responsible for these acts to international justice. and better coordination with other states and with regional and international judicial organisations and institutions is essential. the qualified majority is also involved, as has already been said. human rights cannot be vetoed, mr minister. and when we impose sanctions, we also put the image of the european union in the foreground. we cannot allow what happened with belarus to happen: that because of disagreements in the council, for reasons other than sanctions, the sanctions that the international community expects, that the people of belarus are demanding, are delayed. we call for unanimity on human rights issues because the treaties provide for it and allow it.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. whether it is religious persecution, modern slavery or the erosion of democracy, we cannot and must not look the other way! the magnitsky act is an important addition to our toolbox in this respect. the abolition of the unanimity rule, which many in this house advocate, is not the right way to go. the eu treaty simply does not allow for this. moreover, it is not necessary at all. the european union is also working to develop a common approach to the problem of terrorism, which is based on the principle of non-proliferation. the abolition of the unanimity rule is, above all, highly undesirable. the big member states will then be in charge and the small member states will be left out. foreign policy is just too important for that! consensus is what creates support. and that's what's crucial to making this a powerful tool.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, on behalf of my colleague, shadow rapporteur alice kuhnke, many thanks to the rapporteur for her great work and achievements. i think due to the pressure of the european parliament a number of important improvements have been made in this legislation, like more emphasis on non-discrimination of fundamental rights, support for humanitarian visa, and improving the visa policies and search and rescue as an autonomous implementing measure. but we object to some other elements like the unlimited possibilities to fund border cooperation with third countries and to the large-scale it systems interoperable in the hotspots. but our main objection actually, for the moment, is in general that we have big problems with agreeing at the moment on a huge amount of financial support for external border management in a time of persistent and consistent allegations of fundamental rights violations at the border without transparent and thorough investigations or enforcement actions from the commission. we first need to see improvements in respect for fundamental rights and accountability and this funding should be made conditional upon fundamental rights compliance. it should be a tool to demand monitoring and compliance and to link the funding to the condition that a member state which cooperates with frontex fully also cooperates with monitoring and investigations by frontex. i would like to hear and see from the commission that this will be part of the gain. but for now, for the reasons i gave, we will abstain.
madam president, thirty-six years ago, in a town in luxembourg called schengen, an agreement was reached which marked the beginning of the greatest achievement of european integration since then: free movement, which is now a fundamental right, the most cherished by european citizens by far, and which is also legislated by this european parliament, with the schengen borders code, which is a binding regulation, but nevertheless, commissioner johansson, loudly questioned, strained and broken in the course of the pandemic. we therefore call on the commission to adopt the 2021 strategy for a fully operational schengen area. that is why we have presented this annual report, which calls for drawing the hard lessons of the pandemic in order not only to restore schengen but to relaunch it. that is why we have made the covid certificate digital, and that is why we are also calling for the establishment in this european parliament of a schengen governance support unit to ensure not only that this acquis is respected in the future - which is the expression of the best achievement of freedom in europe, which is free movement without internal borders - but also that we perfect the schengen acquis to the best of our ability.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the report and the strong position. of course, 2020 was an extraordinary year due to the pandemic, but also before, we observed the shocking lack of compliance with the rules on border control, internal border controls that were not temporary nor justified, and consistent reports about pushbacks at many places along our external borders – a grave violation of article 4 of the schengen borders code. it’s important that we look ahead and discuss a new schengen strategy. but whatever the outcome will be, without compliance and enforcement, no border policy is credible. what will hopefully help is a more robust, swift and transparent schengen evaluation and monitoring mechanism, with much more attention for fundamental rights. i call upon the council and the commission to ensure that parliament can act as a co-legislator while making those new rules – because societal support for our border policies starts with democratic control.
the report condemns the reintroduction of internal border controls in the schengen area. member states have temporarily closed their borders more than 260 times since 2015: twelve times as many as in the eight years before. covid-19 has obviously been the main driver, but terrorism and acute illegal immigration flows have also played a role. a country without borders is not a country. a sovereign state decides who can cross the border and who can't. at present, member states are only allowed to introduce temporary border controls in very specific cases and under very strict conditions. the schengen borders code should be adapted to the needs of the member states and to the reality of 2021 and beyond: a world in which new flows of illegal migration can and will arise in a very short time and in which the terrorist threat can change in the blink of an eye. let us give member states the space they need to protect their citizens and manage their borders as they see fit. let us stop imposing a paper reality from 1985 which is clearly not of this time.
madam president, i’m very happy with all the criticism over the hungarian developments, which are very concerning. but the eu council also decided to consolidate the eu turkey statement with new funding. and only the previous part-session, parliament adopted the resolution with clear demands on migration deals. we must ensure human rights compliance, which requires impact assessments and independent monitoring, democratic and judicial control, and scrutiny of the use of funds. the eu turkey statement doesn’t meet any of these criteria. so how do we monitor the situation of refugees? is it taken into account that non-syrian asylum seekers lack access to an asylum procedure? will the funding of border controls result in a complete closure of the southern-east borders where refugees tried to escape violence? there are strong indications that forced returns to syria are being made and that unhcr doesn’t have access to any removal centre. let me be clear: we must support the refugees in turkey. many of them are in precarious circumstances, and turkey takes a large share but the conditions on border control and readmission have a human rights impact, and we must ensure that we support human rights that affect them in our external action.
president, president of the council, commissioner, two weeks ago migration was on the agenda of the european council. i took the opportunity to call on european leaders to embrace the danish immigration model. the processing of asylum applications in safe locations outside europe seems to be a very promising way of stopping disruptive migration flows of often unsuccessful asylum seekers from safe countries at the source. the conclusions of the council meeting show, however, that there is no interest at all in genuine solutions to the migration problem. hollow phrases and generalities dominate. the protection of our western societies and the prevention of humanitarian disasters are clearly not priorities. we are facing an african population explosion, and a third of sub-saharan africans want to emigrate. there's no time to lose. the danes propose a solution which should at least be studied and discussed. the united kingdom is now joining them. i would therefore ask mrs von der leyen, who is obviously not interested in the opinion of the house of representatives and is already away, and mr michel: when will the eu follow?
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, this is actually quite simple. when you decide to join the european union you sign up to its treaties, to our values and principles. this is not a kind of pick-and-choose situation. it’s not an à la carte menu. when you become a member you sign up to all of it. so if you then adopt a law that goes against this, goes against everything we stand for, there will be consequences, and this hungarian anti-lgbtiq law does just that. taking away young people’s access to information about all forms of sexuality and their opportunity to recognise themselves in mainstream media, you take away their freedom, their freedom to be who they are and love whom they want. unfortunately, this is yet another example of the gradual dismantling of fundamental rights by the hungarian government. so let’s make mr orbán listen the only way he knows how. if the law is not revoked, bring hungary to court, repeal its voting rights, and stop eu funds ending up in his pockets. this parliament is doing everything in its power to make this happen. we are doing our job. and now we are urging the commission, but especially the council, to finally do theirs. discussions behind closed doors are all very well but where are the conclusions, where are the recommendations, the vote, to eventually get to the sanctions? please do your job. so let me conclude by saying that this is not about pushing away one member state or another. this is about protecting what is most precious: the freedom of our people. (applause)
mr president, when my niece was born i gave her a picture book called filola wants a crocodile. in this book, filola’s mums go out on a mission to find her a crocodile for her birthday. mums, yes, because i want her to know that having a gay aunt isn’t something to be embarrassed about, but can give you a life full of adventures. in hungary, from tomorrow onwards, this is a crime, because it’s forbidden to teach children about different sexualities and identities. and i’ve heard the commission say over and over, ‘this is not in line with european values’. so do something about it. launch an accelerated infringement procedure, freeze eu funds, make use of all the tools you have. but i’m also calling on the member states to act because you have been bystanders while bill after bill has diminished the rights of our community and not only in hungary and poland. but using our community as a distraction to undermine the rule of law will not change who we are or who we love. our community is strong and we will continue to fight for our rights together.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, with vaccination campaigns rolling out throughout the european union, we can look to 2022 with fresh hope. later this year, we will pass the mid-term point of this election cycle. soon, we will be closer to the 2024 european parliamentary elections than the 2019 elections. it is time to take stock because our actions now and the outcome of the conference on the future of europe will shape our legacy ahead of the next elections. i have a question for the vice-president – what do we want this legacy to look like? renew europe sees that businesses have been through very rough times. and it is important that we now focus our efforts on our economic recovery. and in this context the recovery fund is the financial injection our economy needs but we need to get it right, by properly implementing the recovery and resilience facility and by carefully scrutinising the recovery and resilience plans of our member states. but we also need to be mindful of how we legislate and regulate. we need to keep in mind that businesses are not abstract entities and that behind every company or sme there are people who have built those companies and are responsible for creating our jobs and our economic growth. ‘less, but better regulation’ must therefore be our guiding mantra. to further support our businesses and citizens our focus should be on deepening our single market, especially in the services sector. renew europe asks for bold new proposals, also on the digital single market. and whilst supporting a strong market, we cannot lose focus on strengthening our community of values. respect for rule of law in the european union faces serious challenges and we seem to be losing the progress we have made and this is unacceptable. so renew europe calls for the annual rule of law report to be developed into a concrete mechanism for democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights. and we need to urgently implement the rule of law conditionality mechanism. but our ambitions do not stop there. let 2022 become the official kick-off to the green transition, offering the prospect of millions of green jobs. on migration, where we have made disappointingly little progress, let’s finally put our joint weight behind a durable and sustainable migration system. our citizens need a visible europe that protects their interests and has the courage to speak with one voice on that world stage. and let’s start making bold choices to deliver on the promise of a geopolitical commission. finally, strengthening the eu’s resilience, particularly against hybrid threats, and diversifying our energy supply should feature high on our agenda. i will finish with three simple words that are key to ensure we create a legacy that we can be proud of by 2024: implementation, implementation, implementation. dear mr vice-president šefčovič, it’s time to get down to business.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, summer holidays are knocking at our door and many eu citizens long to travel again. so in the coming weeks the ambition of a common covid—19 certificate will be put to the test. will the certificate be easily accessible? will there be discrimination? and will the member states apply the same rules? this does not seem to be the reality for now. we hear about additional restrictions and hassle at borders, restrictions that completely undermine the whole point of a single eu—wide certificate facilitating free travel. and not only do member states make up their own rules, but there’s a huge lack of clear information. citizens are totally confused and uncertain. so i urge the commission to closely monitor and immediately intervene if member states act against the regulation, because time is of the essence here, and to report back to parliament. but, commissioner, you also made a strong commitment yourself, namely to ensure financial support with a fund to promote affordable testing and to make more funding available if necessary. but when parliament asked you to do so, you simply answered ‘no’. we see that mainly young people, who are not yet vaccinated, are facing the threshold of expensive tests. their access to testing will not only facilitate free travel, but also protect others against the virus. so i urge the commission to spend more money on free travel for all. parliament wants you to do so for the sake of harmonisation, free travel, non—discrimination and for the protection of everyone’s health. i wish you a relaxing, free and healthy summer holiday.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. as the eu, we feel part of the responsibility for the good management of international waters, and therefore also for the waters around the south pole, also in the light of the madrid protocol. measures are needed to protect vulnerable species such as penguins and whales, and this should be based on the best available scientific data and not on randomly selected and unsubstantiated round numbers. but there is something strange about this resolution. you would expect that to be all about antarctica, but it turns out that's not the case. once again, this resolution puts the commission's biodiversity strategy on the table and zooms in on european waters, while we all know that no impact assessments have yet been carried out and it is therefore very premature to take objectives from the biodiversity strategy as a starting point for both the european union's own policy and the approach in international waters. in this context, i would also like to stress the importance of tailor-made products. you can't have the same approach for all waters. what is desirable and possible in the southern ocean may not be possible and desirable in the eu. besides, what do all these plans mean to the fisherman? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. if the eu is to be a world leader, let us set realistic and well-founded targets, including at the conference on biodiversity in kunming later this year. marine protected areas can play a role in protecting biodiversity, but they should not become an end in themselves.
president, commissioner, with the raid on apple daily, china has reached a new low in the erosion of democracy in hong kong. the opposition had already been silenced, and now so had the last free active newspaper. this cannot go unanswered. as long as china continues to violate human rights in hong kong, in xinjiang, wherever, there can be no question of signing the investment agreement. and i am not concerned about the technical preparations for this agreement. can the commissioner reassure me on this point? it is also urgent that magnitsky sanctions be used against carrie lam and others. mr president, what about the european parliament's call, made in the 2019 discharge report, to remove chinese-made cameras from the european parliament? why has this not been explained? make the world a better place, start with yourself.
for the greens/efa group president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the fnv and the dutch uber drivers on their victory in the court case against uber. uber has to hire its drivers and pay back the back wages. this is a great result. i will now continue in english. the verdict in the netherlands adds to over 100 court cases across the eu, and with these court cases platform workers simply ask to be treated the same way as other workers, with the same social benefits and opportunities, and the cases have overwhelmingly been won by the platform workers. you might think that uber, glovo, deliveroo and other platforms would then bury the hatchet, play nice and hire their workers. but instead they do everything to keep operating outside the law or to even change the rules in their favor with workers paying the price. and in the long run we actually all risk paying the price because this business model undermines our social security system. platform workers going to court are fighting an uphill battle against the platforms' army of lawyers and resources, and that is why we, the lawmakers, need to step in, and that is why i am very pleased with this report because we give a clear mandate to the european commission for strict rules and to once and for all tell these platforms how we protect their workers and that we have a model based on solidarity. that's why i also really would like to thank my shadow co-rapporteurs and the rapporteur for the great cooperation while writing this report, because if we stand together we can really make a social europe happen. so what do we want? we start by putting in place a presumption of employment relationship for platform workers. this may sound complicated but it simply means that it should be up to platforms to prove that someone is really an entrepreneur instead of the workers. and for me, it is quite simple. if it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's likely a duck. so why give workers some basic rights rather than the full rights of an employee? it shouldn't matter when you're cleaning someone's house if you've been hired through a platform or an agency: you should have the same rights. and next it's important to clarify what distinguishes these platform workers from other workers and namely the fact that an algorithm dictates what happens. a dutch judge explained today being subject to an algorithm is modern employers' control. workers are constantly tracked, monitored, evaluated and even fired by algorithms without even knowing why the algorithm assigns them certain tasks and what the price is actually based on, and as a result platform workers are under extreme stress. we need to protect workers against algorithmic management. workers must be able to know that not only does an algorithm exist, but also how it assigns tasks and sets the prices. important hr decisions should always be made by a person and not a computer. these issues are not sufficiently dealt with in the aif and have to be addressed in the directive on platform work. ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we have this legislation and when it comes to the future of work and the future of a social model this is one of the first battlegrounds; the outcome will be important for how we will regulate the labour market in the future.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i think your message was more than clear, and again this debate underlines the importance of the issue, the importance of the question, but also the line you have taken in your report very clearly corresponds to a very, very, very large majority of those who have expressed themselves today. just a few remarks. yes, we should not go back with the economy of the 21st century to social conditions of the 19th century. that’s clear. and innovation, nobody opposes innovation. nobody opposes technological progress, but we always have to ask the question, who should innovation serve? should it just serve the shareholders of the platforms, eventually the consumers? what about those who are running the whole scene and the workers? and i think this is the issue, and it cannot be that the world of flexibility, and i understand that this is a business model, this is a system which needs some flexibility. and even those working on the platforms sometimes asked for some flexible arrangements. but flexibility cannot mean very low pay, no social protection, very low cost. and this low cost has to be borne by the worker. this cannot be a sustainable economic or business model, and that has to be clear. now, some say, well most of the platform workers just do that as an additional work. why should an additional work not be protected? why should an additional work not be correctly paid? there is no reason for that. so it is important that these rules apply to all workers, even if they are at platforms as an additional activity. i think what has been said on collective bargaining – and we are working also on this side – there is an imbalance in the relationship between the platform and the worker, and we have to redress, we have to correct this imbalance. and there has to be a real representation. there has to be the possibility to have collective agreements. by the way, if we accept this, we turn to 19th century practices. it will not just happen with platforms. it will happen everywhere because it will create a new dynamic, a new competition between platforms and more traditional businesses. why should traditional businesses comply with rules, social protection, social rules, and platforms they just need not to respect that? so it is also an issue of fair competition between different business models. and at the european level just to finish, well we all have heard what has happened in the netherlands today in amsterdam. this has happened already more than 100 times all over europe and also outside europe. there have been american courts having exactly decided the same or similar things. and therefore we have to introduce more security, more legal safety, clarity, and that’s why the commission is committed to come up with a balanced proposal, respecting the social protection, the social rights of all workers, including the workers on platforms.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would first like to congratulate mr pizarro for this very comprehensive report. i fully agree that the diminishing attractiveness of the fishing sector is a major challenge we need to address. in addition, other important challenges for the sector come along with the issue of ageing. this report of the european parliament also comes at a crucial point in time when the commission is starting its preparations for a report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy to be adopted in 2022. this report will address issues not sufficiently covered in the current common fisheries policy, also including the social dimension. let me reassure you that the commission has already addressed many of the issues outlined in the parliament’s report, and i would like to mention the main ones. firstly, the report rightly points to the importance of data collection. to strengthen our policies it is vital that we have the right data and gain a better understanding of the workforce in fisheries, of the ageing patterns, education and the role of women. together with the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf), the commission has already started to enhance the analysis of social indicators for the eu fishing fleet. this will be pursued in the future and a report examining the social situation of the eu fisheries sector will be published in 2022. secondly, a better knowledge is also required of casualties in the fishing sector, of which there are sadly still far too many. in line with the suggestions in the report, the commission is currently examining the possibility of extending the maritime accident investigation directive to smaller fishing vessels below the length of 15 metres. even though eu legislation already contains important health and safety standards applicable to fishermen and women, like the directive on work on board fishing vessels and the framework directive of 1989 on the safety and health of workers, which is applicable to all sectors, the report rightly recalls that a major step towards better working conditions was taken in 2017. this was the year of the entry into force of directive (eu) 2017/159, which implements the so—called work in fishing convention of the international labour organization into eu law. this has given a boost to the improvement of living and working conditions of fishing crews across the eu, and will certainly help increase the attractiveness of the fishing sector in the eu. i carefully take note of the criticism in your report regarding the alleged contradiction between the required capacity limitations under the common fisheries policy and the need to increase capacity in order to meet other requirements related to safety and decent working conditions. however, i would like to point out that the capacity limitations under the common fisheries policy apply to national fleets as a whole. therefore, there is indeed room for necessary capacity increases of individual vessels as long as the member states concerned respect the overall ceilings and the principles of the entry—exit regime. another important point in your report touches upon training and the mutual recognition of certificates as an important factor for increasing not only the attractiveness of the fishing sector, but also the mobility of crew and the safety of fishing vessels. the commission is therefore closely following the current revision of the international maritime organization’s convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel (stcw-f). once this convention is updated, the commission will examine whether to propose its incorporation into eu law. in the meantime, the commission continues to promote the ratification of all relevant international conventions by our member states and our international partners. this will not only improve the situation of fishers in the eu, but will also ensure a level playing field between fishing operators within the eu and internationally. in several instances, the report points to the importance of the good use of eu funding for the proposed actions. the new european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund (emfaf) will indeed provide the necessary funds to help make the fishing sector more attractive and more resilient. the fund can support young fishers to acquire a first vessel, provide for training opportunities and support the role of women in local fishing communities. under specific conditions the fund can also support investments in low—impact fishing techniques, safety on board and energy efficiency. the commission’s services are now working with member states to ensure they reflect these ambitions in their operational programmes and that the programmes are adopted as soon as possible. let me conclude by again thanking the rapporteur, mr pizarro, and all the shadow rapporteurs for this important work. the report is an encouragement for the commission to pursue its actions to strengthen the social dimension of our common fisheries policy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 september 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by caroline nagtegaal, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, towards inland waterway transport adapted to future needs in europe [2021/2015(ini) ] (a9-0231/2021).
the inland waterway sector is on the verge of some major changes driven by sustainability and digitalisation. where are the needs of the inland waterway sector, what problems need to be solved and addressed, and how do we make this sector future-proof? finally, i am proud to present the report, which is the end result of intensive consultation and dialogue with stakeholders from all corners of the inland waterway sector, from ship owners to research institutes and from inland ports to innovative inland waterway operators. one thing became clear to me very quickly and it stands as a pillar above water: this sector is full of motivation and energy to innovate. however, the creation of this future-proof sector requires a number of ingredients. first, good infrastructure, including bridges, locks and roads. this infrastructure is indispensable to achieve the modal shift objectives. automation and digitalisation also play a key role. in addition, a very realistic roadmap for the sustainability of our fleet and our ports is being drawn up, offering multiple options for alternative fuels and taking into account the different types of vessels. this challenge of the energy transition is perhaps the biggest gap, as the sector is made up of small family businesses, self-employed people and smes, and these are the hardworking entrepreneurs who are literally and figuratively sailing on their pension. it is therefore important that a whole green business case is put forward. the shipowners must be able to expect to recoup the considerable investment they will and must make, and they could use some help. the report therefore also calls for a european inland waterway fund to provide financial support to the sector during both the green and digital transition. this fund should be accessible to small businesses. i am therefore pleased that the commission has already recognised the importance of adequate financial support in the recently published action programme for inland navigation, naiades iii. however, recognition alone is not enough; action must also be taken. i would therefore ask you to vote in favour of this report and not to waste the energy which is currently flowing through the sector to green, improve and renew. with this report, parliament has given us a tool to build the inland waterway of tomorrow and to prepare the sector for a sustainable and even more efficient future.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to thank the rapporteur, ms caroline nagtegaal – i hope i pronounced it more or less correctly – for her presentation and annual report. the commission warmly welcomes the ep recommendations on how to shape the eu’s inland waterway transport for the future. as one of the most efficient forms of transport we need to unlock more of its untapped potential. today’s share of inland waterways in freight movement across the eu stands just above 6%. the green deal communication calls for a substantial part of the 75% of inland freight transport carried by road to be shifted to inland navigation and rail, and for measures to increase the capacity of inland navigation from 2021. with that in mind, the commission adopted on 24 june an ambitious new naiades programme – the inland navigation action plan for 2021—2027 – which is aligned to the new multiannual financial framework. it builds on the december 2019 recommendations of the naiades expert group and shares the objectives laid out in our smart and sustainable mobility strategy. the naiades iii action plan focuses on two core objectives: shifting more freight transport to inland waterways and setting the sector on an irreversible path to zero emissions. this must be underpinned by a paradigm shift towards further digitalisation, as well as accompanying measures to support the current and future workforce. i am pleased to see that our reports are aligned on objectives, but also on many of the proposed measures – from supporting the development of multimodal nodes and interoperable data platforms, to accelerating the rollout of sustainable alternative fuels, and alternative propulsion systems for vessels, but also on the need to better mobilise and combine existing eu and national financing instruments, as well as other private and public investments, to support the many smaller private vessel operators in the sector to access financial support for the transition to a zero—emission fleet. substantive action is also needed to reduce the overlapping legal frameworks in order to improve operating conditions. over 75% of inland navigation in the eu involves cross—border transport, so eu coordinated actions are needed to reinforce the eu single market. over the years, different rules have been developed for various international basins. eu actions will result in fewer barriers, better cross—border traffic and wider eu digital and environmental harmonisation, and this will then clear the way for inland navigation to claim a larger share of travelling individuals and goods. of course, like all other sectors of the economy, inland waterway transport has felt the impact of the covid—19 crisis. the pandemic is estimated to have cost the sector around eur 2.7 billion in lost turnover in 2020 due to a 70% reduction in passenger transport and an 8% reduction in freight transport. it is nonetheless worth noting that the sector proved to be more covid—19 resilient for the transport of goods – an aspect worth taking into account when developing future transport crisis contingency strategies. maximising the potential of inland waterway transport and meeting the core objectives set out in the naiades action plan will require an integrated approach and a basket of measures incorporating transport, environmental, digital skills, energy and fiscal policies, backed up with financial incentives. a stronger inland navigation sector also needs to be able to offer quality jobs, career opportunities and high social, safety and security standards to attract well—trained people. the proposed actions will ensure smart and flexible eu crewing rules and provide inland transport crews with adequate working conditions and the right skills to deal with the green and digital transition, among other things. the commission encourages the ep to help us make sure that europe’s inland waterway transport network is fit for the future. we need not only to overcome the challenges ahead, but also raise the profile of our inland waterway transport network while increasing its attractiveness for investors and for innovation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 september 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. waterways and inland waterways play as important a role in transport as other modes. it is one of the most environmentally friendly modes of transport, with very low emissions and low energy consumption. unfortunately, the limitations of investment in waterway development and the neglect of maintenance have led to the complete marginalization of inland shipping as an alternative means of transport. it is therefore urgent to set priorities and develop a long-term investment plan and to ensure sufficient funding sources both at national level and through european funds. it is important to develop the waterway system in a comprehensive manner, taking into account both its transport and tourism potential. my regions warmia-masuria and podlaskie are areas of great potential for inland navigation and the development of water tourism, and their strength is concentrated around the polish section of the international waterway e70. the great lakes system and the elbe canal, together with the ostrog and ilaw canal, are important inland waterways. unfortunately, water transport is not yet a key element of the transport system. the upcoming revision of the ten-t regulation should therefore allow the integration of the polish sections of the international waterways e30, e40 and e70 through my region into the core network, which would guarantee access to european funds and an efficient modernisation of inland waterways.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by mr stéphane bijoux, on behalf of the committee on regional development, towards a strengthened partnership with the union's outermost regions (2020/2120 (ini)) (a9-0241/2021).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, i start with very sincere thanks to mr stéphane bijoux and to all the members who have contributed to this report. we in the commission share the parliament’s commitment to the outermost regions and we welcome this timely report, which actually arrives just as the commission is running consultations on a new strategic approach for the outermost regions. this is part of our closer look to our territories. the need to be more aware of that diversity, endogenous assets and challenges, opportunities as well of course. we need to constantly remember that our policies are not territorially neutral and that it is incumbent upon us to make sure that they promote the long-term development of all our regions. this is what we wish to do with our revised strategy of the outermost, to consider and discuss how we can be more relevant and supportive in the areas of social matters, health, education, training, but also taking a fresh look at agriculture and fisheries and energy transition, thinking anew about the role of administration. at this critical juncture of recovery we need to deepen the reflection and adjusted approach for solutions to be adequate, to be fit for purpose. let me assure you that we in the commission are carefully examining your detailed suggestions set out in this report, and we will take them into account in shaping the new strategic approach. we are very aware that covid has fallen particularly hard on the outermost regions. we have commissioned a study on this topic, which will be ready by the end of october, as you know. but available data suggest already that in many outermost regions, gdp, so the wealth, fell between 15% and 30% in the last year, and that in 2020, in the previous year, tourism in the outermost was at just 30%. so a fall of 70% of its normal level. you will find more details in the report in october. the commission welcomes the focus of your report on investing in training and job creation, on generating opportunities for young people and on promoting a sustainable green and digital transition. we endorse completely this vision. we also endorse your position on the need to protect biodiversity and on the need to promote the circular economy and renewable energy while still supporting traditional sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, tourism and culture. we in the european commission stand ready to support the outermost regions through the new cohesion programmes, through other european union programmes and whatever instruments we can muster in line with article 349 of the treaty. we look forward to working with the parliament as we shape together the new strategic approach and lay foundations for a sustainable long-term recovery. for this, we want to hear your views and those of your constituents. please encourage as many of them as possible to reply to our public consultation launched in july and open until november. i believe the future holds many opportunities for the outermost regions, from renewable energy to sustainable tourism, to the blue economy. they can be leaders and pioneers, and we in the european commission are ready to be their supporters. so thank you very much, et on doit travailler ensemble, trabalhamos juntos para o bem de todos. on doit travailler ensemble. trabalhamos juntos para o bem de todos.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 september 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mr younous omarjee, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on a new approach to the atlantic maritime strategy (2020/2276 (ini)) (a9-0243/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, dear elisa ferreira, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the committee on regional development unanimously adopted this own-initiative report on a new approach to the maritime strategy for the atlantic region, which calls in particular on the council and the commission to create an atlantic macro-region, as you know it exists, for the baltic sea, the danube, the alps and the adriatic and ionian seas. we are all obliged to do so, because the atlantic arc, with its many assets, has also become the epicentre of many crises. first, the brexit crisis, which has affected the entire atlantic arc and continues to affect it. and then there was the covid-19 crisis. finally, all atlantic regions are also very much affected by the climate crisis. all this raises very serious concerns in the short, medium and long term and will also have consequences, madam commissioner, for the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the atlantic arc and for the risks of accelerating the depopulation trends we are already seeing. we must respond to these problems in a strong way, and this is what is being asked by local actors, public authorities, especially regional authorities, and the conference of peripheral and maritime regions, which, i must say, has done an absolutely exemplary job. we therefore call on the european council to meet this expectation and to give a mandate now to create this macro-region. and we expect the commission to work on it now. and there is no need to delay, commissioner. let's face it: when the regions think big, the european commission is always thinking too cautiously today - as is also shown by the atlantic action plan, which, in our view, lacks ambition and is too far from potential, in particular because of the lack of budgetary flexibility, the lack of coordination with the cooperation and structural funds and the excessive competitiveness of its governance. what the commission is proposing is considered insufficient by all the actors on the ground and by our regi committee in the european parliament. insufficient for industrial development and employment. not enough for sustainable fishing. insufficient for ports, for the blue economy and for climate objectives. the atlantic arc is the largest seafront in europe; and europe, the world's leading maritime power, must think of a strong strategy for itself. as you know, european civilization has its origins in the depths of the atlantic ocean. and in a way, the mediterranean has been drained into the atlantic. from the discovery of the americas to the opening of new sea and trade routes, slavery, the industrial revolution and globalisation, today the atlantic is at the heart of the european continent and continues to shape it. a europe which sees itself as a world power has no future without the atlantic and should therefore give it a very strategic priority. and it would be quite paradoxical if china, which has global visions, would attach much more importance to this than we do. i would like to conclude, of course, by thanking all the members of the regi committee who contributed to this report, and the transport and fisheries committees for their close and valuable collaboration. may this own-initiative report of the regi committee now be a foundation stone for the atlantic macro-region that everyone is waiting for.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, mr omarjee, for this important report. it is in fact a report that has a strategy, a vision, and i would only like to underline that for this vision to be materialised in something more concrete, as you suggested in your speech, it is not only up to the commission and parliament to take that decision. it is very important also to have the engagement and the will of the council. the report in fact addresses a very important issue – the atlantic action plan – in response to, and trying to achieve completion of, the ideas and suggestions that were already present in the july 2020 report from the commission for a sustainable, resilient and competitive blue economy in the european union’s atlantic area covering this atlantic facet, with the friends ireland, portugal and spain. this action plan is in fact an update to the original plan that dated already from 2013. even if we don’t move immediately towards this final objective, one of the important novelties of the new action plan is, in fact, the consideration of a governance mechanism that strengthens and gives another capacity for cooperation not just among countries, but among regions. this is an important new element. the new regional dimension is pivotal in the action plan as it includes the outermost regions of the european union. moreover, the commission has been working intensively, as we just said, with the outermost regions, with other thematic platforms to help them set up their own blue economy strategies. i note positively also the suggestion in your report to organise yearly a high—level set of meetings, which the commission will consider in view of complementing the bottom—up approach of this strategy. we also share similar views on priorities such as transport links, connectivity and boosting innovation in ports. the new action plan fully reflects these. pillar one focuses on ports as gateways to trade and hubs for the blue economy, including the ten—t network in the atlantic, led by ireland. pillar two concerns blue skills of the future and ocean literacy, coordinated by portugal. pillar three deals with marine renewable energy development, coordinated by spain. pillar four focuses on a healthy ocean and resilient coasts, addressing also marine pollution, coordinated by france. this in fact settles and organises the work in a much more rational and acceptable way. these are also the priorities that participating member states decided jointly to focus on. on fisheries, i would like to point out that this important economic sector is broadly covered by the common fisheries policy. nevertheless, the commission is currently exploring with member states how to integrate fisheries, aquaculture and tourism into the action plan’s implementation. i am pleased that the action plan also has a strong international dimension, with the atlantic ocean research alliance, including the united states, canada, brazil and south africa. furthermore, the new atlantic action plan provides the possibility for third countries to be associated, subject to a joint decision by all participating countries. in our view, existing european funds can provide the necessary financial support for this action plan to be fully implemented. the commission counts on the regions to mobilise, for instance, indirect funds and to mainstream programmes in that direction. to that end, the commission is also willing to facilitate the interaction between the interreg atlantic area monetary committee and the members of the atlantic strategy. furthermore, the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund co—funds the so—called aspban project that has just kick—started in may. this project aims to establish an innovative network of atlantic port accelerators involving start—ups, small and medium companies, so that ports can be transformed into true blue hubs. the commission will also fully support further flagship projects in the atlantic area – for example, on marine renewable energy, in line with the work programme of the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund. to conclude, i would like to stress that the new atlantic action plan comes at the right time in order to give full effect to the priorities for the blue economy. the action plan provides for the necessary support to put the blue economy not only on the recovery path after the covid—19 pandemic, but also on the path of green transformation. thank you very much. let’s go on working together.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 september 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. as rapporteur for the s&d group, and in view of the commitment of the rapporteurs involved in the process, i believe that we have achieved a good text in terms of promoting the economic, social and territorial development of the atlantic regions. i would like to highlight as important points of improvement to the original text the importance of adding a stronger social component, which creates more opportunities for the creation of fair and sustainable employment, for training and education, with a focus on young people, for the need to pay more attention to several areas relevant for the sustainable development of the blue economy, such as fisheries and aquaculture and sustainable tourism, and for the need to pay special attention to the atlantic ors, which differ greatly from each other and it is essential to always take into account their specificities. i would also like to highlight the proposal to create an atlantic macro-region to improve coordination of the use of european funds, to promote ambitious projects and to strengthen the involvement of regional authorities and the role of the atlantic outermost regions in the governance of the atlantic strategy, giving priority to synergies between the maritime dimension and economic, social and territorial cohesion. the adoption of this report is a step forward in ensuring the best interests of the regions concerned.
the sitting is adjourned and will resume tomorrow, tuesday, september 14, 2021, at 9.00 a.m. with the announcement of the results of today's voting round. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the presentation of the 'fit for 55' package following the publication of the wcc report [2021/2875 (rsp)). i would remind members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words or acceptance of blue cards in any of the debates of this session. as in the past, there will also be contacts from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, dear members of the european parliament, before addressing the important topic that is today on the agenda, let me please remind you that september is the month of raising awareness of childhood cancer. i recently received a group of slovenian children that have to go through this disease, and they gave me this golden ribbon. as there is a covid restriction they couldn’t bring those golden ribbons to you here so they asked me to bring them to you in order to send support for them, a good message for them, and we will distribute these to you. and they will be very glad and very happy if they see you on your social media or any kind as support from you. so i look forward to this support and the slovenian presidency will do its utmost to support this fight against cancer. mr president, honourable members, thank you for inviting me to speak on this crucial topic. recent natural disasters across europe are a stark reminder to everyone that climate change and its effects are something felt not only in far-away countries, but as well in other continents. according to data from the european environment agency, the average temperature in europe has been 2.2 degrees celsius higher over the last five years than it was at the end of the 19th century. 2020 was the warmest year ever recorded in europe. it is estimated that between 1980 and 2019, over 85 000 people in the eu lost their lives due to extreme weather and climate-related events. the final loss is caused by extreme weather and climate-related events exceeded eur 419 billion in the eu27 over the last 40 years. this is significantly more than what the eu spent over two years on all its policies and programmes, and this summer we yet again received a report from ipcc reminding us of the global challenge. the ipcc findings indicate that human activities have altered the environment at an unprecedented pace, with the unavoidable consequence that catastrophic impacts lie ahead unless the world rapidly and dramatically cuts greenhouse gas emissions. for europe, the report predicts an increase in the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. higher temperatures and intensified weather events will also result in huge costs for the eu’s economy and hamper countries’ ability to produce food. but faced by dramatic events and figures and equipped with scientific knowledge, i believe the eu is stepping up the challenge. we have pledged to be the first climate-neutral continent. the climate law adopted this year by parliament and the council set us on a firm path to climate neutrality by 2050. our ambition is firmly anchored in the climate mainstreaming of eu policies and set out in the green deal and underpinned by the multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027 and the covid-19 recovery plans. the fit for 55 legislative package presented by the commission on 14 july this year represents the moment of delivery of our ambition. the discussions in the council are framed by the principles agreed by the council in december 2020 and reaffirmed in may 2021. i want to take this opportunity to thank the commission for the enormous amount of work done to deliver this package. we are only at the beginning of the examination of the many proposals made by the commission. it is too early to make statements on how the debate will unfold. however, it is clear that when discussing the package a number of overarching dimensions will have to be considered, including the ability of the package to deliver on our ambitions and be effective in decarbonising our economy and societies. we also have to consider the package’s contribution to future-proofing our economy. does it deliver on the opportunity to use the green transformation to reinforce the eu’s leadership in innovative green technology to create new jobs and strengthen the competitiveness of european industry, while ensuring a level playing field on global markets? does the package represent the right policy mix in providing the right incentives to decarbonise the economy by stimulating investment and uptake of new technologies that can secure business and jobs? well, we should openly discuss that. furthermore, since increased climate ambition is not without costs, we will need to analyse whether this package ensures a fair distribution of the burden between economic sectors and member states, but also within the individual member states themselves. here i want to underline the need to take a hard look at the socioeconomic impact of measures and how best to address it. having said that, ambition, economy and fair burden-sharing are not opposites. they need to go hand in hand. the commission has presented a set of interconnected proposals that, as a package, aim to contribute to deliver ambition in a balanced way. in our eagerness to find a solution on individual files, we should not forget to zoom out and look at the overall picture and at whether the package as a whole delivers. today’s debate provides a good occasion for this. of course europe alone will not be able to rise effectively to the challenges set in the paris agreement. the eu is currently emitting less than 10% of global emissions and, while we have a downward trajectory, other economies are still increasing their emissions, but we have a responsibility to lead by example. there are some positive developments at international level, such as the recent announcement made by the usa and china to commit to reach climate neutrality respectively by 2050 and 2060. but it is not sufficient. we need to go further. every country has to draw a credible pathway towards climate neutrality if we want to preserve our collective chances to stay below 1.5%. in this regard, cop26 in glasgow will be a test of our collective commitment to fulfill the long-term temperature goal of the paris agreement. we are actively preparing for this major event where we intend to emphasise the extreme urgency to act to keep the 1.5-degrees celsius goal within reach. mr president, honourable members, for the slovenian presidency, the proposals in the fit for 55 legislative package are top priority, and we have embarked on an ambitious work programme aiming to make as much progress as possible, thereby laying a solid foundation on the way towards finding agreement on the proposal within the council. delivering on the eu 2030 target and the fit for 55 package will be crucial. it will be europe’s contribution to meet the global challenges of climate change and it will be our opportunity to lead by example while future-proofing our own economy and ensuring prosperity for european citizens, leaving no one behind. it is our joint responsibility to get it right. let us, parliament and council, as co—legislators, roll up our sleeves and get to work. thank you for your attention.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, ‘the time is out of joint; oh cursed spite that ever i was born to set it right’. this is a quote from hamlet that keeps coming back to me in this whole process of finding solutions to what is an existential threat to humanity, the combination of the climate crisis and the serious risk of ecocide. there is a huge responsibility on our shoulders because, if we fail to act now – and i mean immediately – then our children will never forgive us because things will get out of hand. that is the essence of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report, that if we don’t act now, tipping points will be reached quite soon and one might even fear sooner than even the ipcc report describes. so we have no choice. we have to act. and the one thing i hope we can avoid is that we are paralysed by the fear of change, paralysed by the consequence of what we need to do. the fit for 55 package proposes a holistic approach to the problem, and we will have ample time to discuss the individual measures that we propose. the commission is open to discuss these and look for alternatives, but we have to be very clear on one thing, whatever measure you take. all these measures have a price effect, and the art of politics will be to ensure that the price effect does not affect the most vulnerable and that we use the age—old political instrument of redistribution to make sure that the burden is evenly spread in society and that people can see clearly, beyond any doubt, that we have taken measures that will assure an equal burden-sharing across society. the one thing we cannot afford is for the social side to be opposed to the climate side. i see this threat very clearly now that we have a discussion about the price hike in the energy sector. only about one fifth of the price increase can be attributed to co2 prices rising. the others are simply a consequence of shortage in the market, and the irony is that, had we had the green deal five years earlier, we would not be in this position because then we would have less dependency on fossil fuels and on natural gas. along the way in this energy price crisis, we have seen that the prices for renewables have stayed low and stable. so, instead of being paralysed or slowing things down because of the price hike now in the energy sector, we should speed things up in the transition to renewable energy so that affordable renewable energy becomes available for everyone. that is, i think, the lesson we should draw from the present situation. of course, if you follow the reasoning we have put in fit for 55, for instance on the introduction of the eu emissions trading system (ets) in transport and buildings, in combination with the social climate fund, you will give member states the opportunity to make their own choices, for instance reducing the vat, reducing duties on energy, and giving direct support to households. direct support can be given. it’s a choice member states can make. it’s the choice we have made because we believe that, in the analysis of the fact that emissions and transport are still going up and they need to be going down, and that the energy efficiency of buildings is not increasing at the rate that we need to get to the -55% emission reduction in 2030, we have to do something. we cannot just say, ‘ok, it’s too tricky, let it be’. then the emissions will continue to rise in transport and we will never, ever reach the target we set into law. so my offer to parliament and council is: let’s look at the fit for 55 package in its totality. if there are elements you would like to change, then help us find alternatives that reach the same goal in a way that ensures fair burden-sharing across society, across member states, between regions. that is, i think, the ultimate goal of what we should do. now, of course, everything we do at home has an effect on our position abroad and i have sensed, in my travels and negotiations in the preparation of cop26 in glasgow, that the fact that we have a plan and the fact that there is a concrete proposal, has enormously boosted our position, also in the international arena. i spoke last week both with john kerry and alok sharma in the preparation of the cop, and i will see john kerry again next week. i spoke with the minister from bhutan, who is chair of the least developed countries (ldc) group in the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). i will also be speaking with the chairman of the small island states group next week. i will be talking to the turks later this week. i will be travelling to egypt to talk to the countries in the mediterranean in early october. i will also be travelling to moscow to talk to the russians. so you see that there is an active interest in europe’s role in all of this. i’m in constant dialogue with the chinese and their negotiator, xie zhenhua, to also try and convince the chinese to come on board with more ambition. so that’s how we try to prepare glasgow in the best possible way, and i would really welcome your support in these efforts because i believe – and i want to conclude on this – we can still fix it. i believe we can still make a success of glasgow but, more than that, i believe we can prevent the climate crisis from getting out of hand and out of control. i believe we can offer to the next generations a humanity that knows how to live within planetary boundaries. i believe it can be done, but only if we act now.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. (mike turned off) ... this summer and the ipcc report was a wake-up call. we must turn on the climate change turbo in europe and worldwide. we as the epp say yes to the european commission's proposals. and we don't say yes, but we say yes, and we see potential to make it even better. for example, we see the possibility of opening up a path for cars that run on synthetic fuels, so that we can take all the opportunities to become truly climate neutral. and above all, we support the commission in taking a market economy approach and at the same time presenting social compensation. i would like to express my clear support for this proposal from the european commission, for the new ets and for the social fund for climate action. the point is that everyone who is climate-friendly benefits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i congratulate you on this combination, mr timmermans. and you presented a social compensation. this is the first time, and i am addressing the greens and the social democrats, that i have asked: where was the social balance in the existing ets? where is the social compensation for the eeg, which was introduced in germany, for example, to achieve renewable energy targets? the high cost of electricity is also a burden for families with many children and the socially disadvantaged, and not just because of the need to consider a new ets. that is why we are seeking social balance. and let's not trade around the principle that we need a price signal to get all the technology. we should not be fussing about it, we should be taking action and putting this package on the road together and making it even better.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i will not surprise you and say that we at s&d welcome the fit for climate package. this is proof that we have passed the stage of pledges. with this package, we have entered the stage of action. but now i hear political groups from the left to the right expressing their concerns about parts of the package, and that reminds me of a famous cartoon. when someone asks a group of people ‛who wants change?’ everyone cheers and raises their hands. but then he asks them ‛who wants to change?’ and the room remains silent. if everyone that’s worried about parts of this package being too ambitious wants them taken out of this package, what will remain? nothing. we, as s&d, are ready to deliver. however, we need to talk about the severe revision of the ets, including a revision of the free allowances. we need to talk about progressive energy taxation. we need to talk about the just transition. we need to talk about whether we are willing to directly support consumers to become more sustainable, and of course about the carbon border adjustment mechanism, about effort-sharing, etc., etc. we are willing to talk about every single point in this package on the two conditions that the total is balanced and that we meet our objectives – and, of course, that the gains and burdens are shared in a fair and just way.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, we are living in an exciting and unprecedented time. this is a first, because this is the first time that we in the european parliament have had the opportunity to say yes to the commission's proposal to end the marketing of petrol and diesel cars, fossil fuel cars, and to move to a new generation, particularly electric cars. this is the first time we have the opportunity to say yes to a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders that will put climate, carbon, into the rules of the game of international trade, and we will be the first in the world to do so. we have the opportunity to say yes to the expansion of the maritime sector in the carbon market. this is also the first time in the world that a political entity has decided to integrate the maritime sector to make it pay a fair price for carbon. and all of this, the renew group is fully supporting it, totally. you know, mr timmermans, we are very sceptical about one part of the big climate plan you are proposing, namely the extension of the carbon market to buildings and transport, because we think the political cost is very high and the climate impact is very small. we will therefore make alternative proposals, and the renew group teams are already working on making these alternative proposals and restructuring this proposal which comes from the commission and which is not suitable for us. but i also wanted to ask you, mr timmermans: in the climate law we have unanimously given the european commission the opportunity to tell the council and parliament, at every stage of the legislative process, whether we are still in line with the target of minus 57%. because, as you know, we negotiated more than minus 55 percent, which is minus 57 percent. how are you going to do that? how will you proceed tomorrow, in the next discussions in the committee on the environment, in the votes in the committee on the environment and in the other associated committees? in the votes in the plenary and in the council? how are you going to guide us, in a way, to ensure that we are not going to be derailed by the weight of certain lobbies? i was listening to peter liese who already advocated the non-end of thermal vehicles in 2035 to move towards new fossil technologies. we're going to have dozens and dozens of proposals that are going to weaken the climate package. we need you to activate the climate bill and make sure we're on the right track.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this summer the un panel on climate change gave us a dramatic reminder of what’s at stake. they tell us the global surface temperature is increasing faster than ever in the past 2 000 years. they tell us that if we don’t drastically limit our emissions, every single region on our planet will suffer the immediate consequences of climate change. they tell us we only have until 2030 maximum to do everything in our power to act against the climate and biodiversity crisis. the decisions that we are taking today have to deliver on the global promise to keep the temperature rise well below two degrees, and it’s the industrialised countries that have built their wealth on greenhouse gas emissions that are now threatening the lives and livelihoods of millions of people around the globe. we, as europeans, have a special responsibility, and all of this makes the fit for 55 package so important. a 55% reduction is, anyway, not very ambitious given the challenge ahead. therefore, it will be even more important that this package is filled with concrete measures that are correctly and honestly calculated and measures that start today and not just only after 2030. and unfortunately, that is a test that this package does not pass, at least not in all aspects. phasing out free allowances in the emission trade, a kerosene tax and an end to the combustion engine cannot be postponed for another 10 years, or even more. not only are we losing out in the fight to keep the climate conditions liveable, but also in the race for who provides the tools and technology for the transition. the time to act is now if we don’t want to drown in the consequences of our own inaction. rather, we need to end public subsidies for fossil fuel, get rid of free pollution certificates, complement the renovation phase with the solar phase and accelerate the switch to renewables. we know what to do. we just need to do it, and we have no time to lose.
mr president, the european union's 'fit for 55' package means a direct burden on the working people, because of the so-called 'green businesses' of the groups, from the green new taxes on carbon emissions to electricity, which end up in the same invoices as the most expensive imported natural gas and the very expensive and unstable monoculture of renewable energy sources. under the pretext of climate change, energy liberalisation, emissions trading and desalination are becoming more widespread, leading to price increases for electricity, 'green' products and services, which come either with the scourge of overtaxation on old fuels or with the carrot of subsidies for the purchase of inaccessible electric cars. the so-called compensatory payments, like those of the new democracy government in greece, will again be paid by the people by repaying the untenable 'super-money' of the recovery fund. only if the people are freed from the laws of the market and capitalist profit, with the means of production, energy sources and networks becoming their social property, only then will energy planning serve their interests.
mr president, in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) that i chair we are of course very much interested in the fit for 55 package, as itre competence on energy, industrial policies, new technologies and innovation and envi competence on climate policy are very much interlinked. the 55% emission reduction target for 2030 has already been set. the fit for 55 package will pave the way to reach this target. the commission is very ambitious indeed. the proposal is already ambitious. the reality sometimes is far from ready for this transformation. consequently, we in the european parliament need to find the proper balance in this debate. we need to ensure consistency across policies, streamline our climate ambitions with a feasible transition leaving no region behind, with no industrial sector being negotiated, ensuring further the resilience both in the energy and industrial sectors and in particular of the energy system ensuring the security of energy supply. all of this while striving for energy autonomy in the union, and keeping costs affordable for end users. in securing our lead in tackling climate change we need to work towards climate innovation and digitalisation, remaining competitive and ensuring growth in all our industrial sectors, and in particular in the heavy ones. as chair of the itre committee, i can say that the long-term commitment of this committee is to achieve the ambitious targets on climate policies, but with a coherent industrial policy with a just and inclusive transition, while maintaining the security of energy supply in the union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. even for those of us who follow climate change on a daily basis, the ipcc report this summer was a real horror read. the ice melting is happening faster and faster. by 2050, we can expect at least one ice-free summer at the north pole. sea levels are rising faster. in the worst-case scenario, we could have up to two meters of sea level rise by the end of the century. we expect more and more aggressive natural disasters, more floods and more intense forest fires. it is therefore very positive that we are now sharply increasing ambition at eu level. the commission's climate package is a major step towards the creation of a greenhouse gas emissions trading system. for each year, we will reduce the emission allowance, including in industry and energy production, by 4 per cent instead of 2 per cent. both air and sea transport should start paying for themselves properly, and it is time. in addition, a date of 2035 is proposed for the end of fossil fuel cars in the eu as a whole. it's clear that climate legislation is already making a real difference. at the same time, the ipcc's summer scare report shows that we need to do much more. nothing prevents us from exceeding the ambitions of the climate law in future negotiations, and that must be our ambition. we cannot leave the fate of the world in the hands of climate conservative governments who are not taking responsibility. there is a need for strong action at eu level.
mr president, the ipcc report was a sobering reminder of the path our planet is on. even if the european union does everything it can, the goal of staying together is slipping out of the hands of the world community at half a degree. this is why cop26 in glasgow is at the heart of the decisions that are now being taken. the eu is now in the forefront, but it all depends on how the eu's example affects the dynamics of the meeting. the experience of cop25 in madrid is a good warning. but there is one more warning that concerns all of us. polish scholar jan zielonka wrote a somewhat sickly and fussy book called europe as empire. in it he warns against a method where decisions are taken from above, from the great wisdom of the commission, above all proportionality. citizens and member states must support and be involved. it's the only way we're gonna make it.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the commission for the package that they released on 14 july. we would of course have loved to see a fit for 65 package, but let’s start with the fit for 55 package. it’s also great to hear that in this parliament there’s a lot of support for climate action. so let’s see how much is left of that when we really get into the details of the negotiations because usually the parliament is good at speeches, but then doesn’t deliver on the ground. we need to step up. we need to step up again on renewables. we need to step up on energy efficiency, and be assured that we will fight for that. but also, when we are talking about a fair transition, it cannot be that the industry keeps on having free allowances and, at the same time, we are expanding the eu emissions trading system (ets) to sectors where the citizens will have to pay, and, also there, if you look at the revenues of that system, we just give 50% back to the member states without any demands. i think that we will ensure that it will be strengthened, just like on taxation where the kerosene tax really should be implemented much faster than is now in the proposal. we will all do that, but what is also important is that there are still plans ahead of us – and this is also my plea to the european commission. by the end of this year, you will also look at state aid guidelines, and this is going to be crucial. a green deal will not deliver only through regulation. we will have to put the money there where it should be, and that means we really should stop financing fossil fuels. the state aid guidelines are the place to really make a start on that, and i hope the commission will deliver there as well. the work is only just beginning.
mr president, the 'ready for 55' package is an irresponsible experiment with our economy. the commission estimates that the proposals will cost eur 1 300 billion, but more realistic estimates put the figure at eur 4 000 to 5 000 billion. what is the result? just 0.004 degrees celsius less warming, four thousandths of a degree. a result that is infinitesimally small. what the package makes clear is that the european commission has lost its faith in the free market once and for all. ready for 55 is the next step towards a planned economy. our earning power and our purchasing power are being put at risk by rising costs and even more regulation. europe is already a world leader in improving the living and environmental conditions. we have been successfully investing in a better future for decades and we must continue to do so without idealism. policies should set realistic and technologically neutral targets. leave the execution to the market. only then will there be innovation and progress.
the european union is not a political union, but a political union. we are bound together as europeans, if only because we are in the same spot on the globe. this is not only true for our peace and stability, but also for the consequences of climate change. that's what this summer has painfully shown. while the dutch province of limburg, parts of germany, and parts of belgium, among others, were experiencing severe flooding, parts of southern europe were literally on fire. the human and economic damage was immense. that interconnectedness also means that we must work together to combat climate change and adapt to changing realities, such as extreme weather events. this is the way we can and must protect our citizens better. as important and good as it is for us to act in solidarity and swiftly after disasters, it is better to invest in advance than to compensate afterwards. it could prevent a lot of human suffering. as regards the response to natural disasters, i would call on the commission to work actively with the member states to see how they can get this money as quickly as possible, to deal with the matter quickly and to ensure that the money also gets to where it is needed quickly.
mr president, the destructive power of water has caused many casualties and enormous damage. the province of limburg was hit hard, including valkenburg. the damage is estimated at 400 million euros. in venlo too, the water in the meuse rose rapidly and dangerously, and family and friends had to be evacuated. it was a tense time, with a lot of effort to keep the meuse behind the dikes, and yet a lot of personal suffering and damage. the july floods are just one of many natural disasters in the past year. the forest fires in greece and the balkans are on our radar. in addition to the emotional pain and loss, much material damage has been sustained. roads, bridges and streets are destroyed. residents have lost their homes, businesses and schools. people need support, clarity and european solidarity. the commission has made it possible for countries to receive aid from the solidarity fund. i am surprised that the netherlands has still not called on the solidarity fund. the netherlands is a small country, but the region seems to be moving further and further away from the hague. i would therefore like to call on the outgoing government in the netherlands not to abandon the region as it did groningen and zeeland. do your duty and help limburg rebuild.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, high representative, as the dust settles from the rapid taliban takeover of afghanistan and the departure of the western presence over summer, we should seize this moment to reflect, to learn from this debacle because we need to create a more strong and effective foreign policy to protect and strengthen human rights. but we also must urgently act now because it is heart breaking to see how afghan citizens are exposed to the brutal violence of the taliban, with summary executions, arbitrary decision and the severe and violent oppression of women and girls. the afghan people face an enormous humanitarian disaster with shortages of food, water and other basic needs. and those afghan people were counting on us. so let us do whatever we can to protect them against the taliban terror. so let us take our responsibility with a strong eu coordination on evacuations of people who worked for us or at imminent danger of taliban persecution, on a humanitarian visa for those arriving in neighbouring countries, on increasing and ensuring access to humanitarian aid to afghan people. redirect developing assistance to non-governmental actors or international organisations to help the people but prevent any type of recognition to the taliban as long as human rights are at risk. and on taking our responsibility for refugees, it is time to step up resettlement, facilitate family unification and prepare for the arrival of afghan refugees at our border. they must receive immediate protection even if their request was already rejected before. the temporary protection directive was designed to equally divide refugees between member states and the commission and council must now fully make use of it. the justice and home affairs council gave a wrong and selfish message. let the parliament give the right direction. dear colleagues, i look forward to a strong parliamentary resolution reflecting courage and solidarity that the afghan population so much needs and deserves in these difficult times.
madam president, a lot went wrong over the summer in afghanistan, with tragic and unfortunate consequences for the afghan people, especially for the brave afghan women. and it is important that we draw our lessons from what happened. while i realise that we have very different values from the taliban, i also believe it is important for europe to engage with afghanistan. we have to talk with the taliban in order to get our own citizens home safely. we also have to engage to help the afghan people and provide humanitarian aid. and we have to prevent a total collapse of the economy and a mass exodus from afghanistan. but europe is not the only actor. the future of afghanistan also depends on what others in the region will do. we need to engage the international community to work together to achieve these goals. in an imperfect world, we also have to talk with people who do not share our norms and values and i call on the high representative to understand that in order for us to achieve our goals.
madam president, with our military withdrawal from afghanistan, what was built has been broken down in just a matter of days. female students went home and the first thing they did was hide their ids, diplomas and certificates. women are reporting threats of violence from taliban fighters for simply playing sports, but many more women fear honour killings, child marriages, harassment and psychological abuse. i am urging the commission and member states to create a special fast-track eu asylum procedure for afghan women and girls specifically, and to broaden the scope of erasmus to include afghan women because if education is the key, access to school is the lock. and my islam has not taught me that women should be submissive; my muslim father taught his three daughters that we as women can make our own choices. so do not believe the version of the islam of the taliban and do not recognise them. afghan women deserve the right to make their own choices – to work, to love, to study and to be secure.
in writing. the presence of nato and allied forces in afghanistan ended after 20 years and it is extremely disturbing and sad that the taliban have so quickly taken over territory that had been under government control. immediately, the taliban began to persecute people, using violence and revenge killing. the human rights situation is deteriorating rapidly. free media is suppressed, women's rights are lost. a humanitarian disaster is unfolding, with half the population in need of permanent assistance and a third food insecure. while the crisis in afghanistan is a tragedy for the afghan people, it also poses a threat to the security of the eu, for example, through the threat of terrorism, but also through the increase in migration. the eu must find ways to influence the taliban so that human rights are still protected in the country. we must ensure that the evacuation continues safely, that humanitarian aid reaches those in need. the eu must step up cooperation with neighbouring countries and also plan to provide additional support to countries hosting refugees in afghanistan's neighbourhood.
in writing. the situation in afghanistan continues to deteriorate and has the potential to create a very serious crisis similar to that of 2015. it is very important that europe looks eastwards, along the european external borders, which we must strengthen and reinforce. we have a direct responsibility for the safety and security of millions of european citizens and we must do everything we can to ensure that jihadists do not cross our borders and pose a direct threat to the security of europeans. i call on frontex to provide full assistance in terms of people, equipment and funding at the eu's external borders, as bulgaria is. it is there that we are currently seeing increased migratory pressure, and if it continues at its current pace, there is a danger that the forgotten 'balkan migration route', which has not been used for years, will be revived. it is very important to strengthen eu diplomacy and foreign policy. the eusr shall also provide the eusr with the necessary information to enable the eusr to carry out the mandate of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (hr). it's important that we work with afghanistan's neighbors, so that people, instead of taking long, dangerous, illegal journeys, stay closer to their country so that they can return home quickly and easily.
in writing. the european commission looks at the world through rose-colored glasses. timmermans' green earth shift is leading to unaffordable energy prices, the ecb's ultra-low interest rate policy is creating unaffordable housing and the excessive corona measures are causing further polarization of society. my main concern, however, is the incoming flow of migrants from afghanistan. we need to be very careful not to let this be a repeat of 2015. instead of giving money to a hostile regime that will use illegal migration as a means of blackmail, the eu should take a cue from denmark, the country that has an opt-out from european asylum and migration policy. we too must take steps to provide temporary emergency shelter for asylum seekers in their region of origin. asylum applications should be submitted outside europe, so that no one has to make the dangerous journey. in addition, the eu needs to have an effective return policy to return those already present in the country of origin. denmark shows that this can be successful, unlike the eu's efforts. a fair and consistent immigration policy. only by taking this approach can we curb migration to the eu.
president. - i also thank the rapporteur, mrs vautmans, for her excellent report. i agree with her that we need to be very clear tonight. as long as china continues to violate human rights, imprison uyghurs, persecute christians and destroy democracy in hong kong, there can be no investment agreement with the eu. china should not think that the problems can be solved by simply lifting the sanctions and making some adjustments in the margins. no, there are really fundamental changes that need to be made, especially in the area of the protection of christians and other religious minorities. what does not help - and i look at the commission representative - is that the eu's envoy for religious freedom, christos stylianides, is leaving after four months. of course, this is not the way to achieve much-needed diplomacy in this area. my question to the commission is therefore very specific: can you guarantee that a full-fledged successor will soon come who is willing to commit himself for a long time and with heart and soul to those who are persecuted?
mr president, we welcome the ipa iii regulation, as already said by my colleague mr waitz, to support and incentivise the accession process. but we must be honest: the accession process is in a very challenging situation in many countries and sometimes even in a deadlock. in north macedonia we saw due to external actors, and in some other countries, think of bosnia herzegovina, we really see that political leaders are obstructing the process themselves. and in those situations, eu accession is not an effective tool anymore to make progress. and there’s a big risk that the process of accession is being misused in order to get access to ipa iii funding for the own interest of the political leaders. so therefore, i really welcome the strengthened conditionality mechanism in ipa iii on democracy, human rights and rule of law, and the possibility of suspending assistance in case of severe backsliding. but we need to make it an effective tool. if i look at the current text, it’s quite vague on how to trigger it, so we would invite the commission to specify this part and make it an effective tool for a real integration.
mr president, the damage caused by brexit is enormous. in the netherlands, the structural costs of brexit are estimated to be up to eight billion euros per year by 2030. so it is good that this brexit fund is coming, although of course it can never compensate for all the costs. it does show that we in the european union stand shoulder to shoulder when there are problems. we do this in such a way that solidarity is also shaped and that the money goes where the damage is greatest. we have done so with the european recovery fund of 750 billion euros and, fortunately, with this fund of 5 billion euros. it is now up to the commission and the member states to make this money available as quickly as possible to all fishermen, businesses and transport operators affected by brexit. i would like to conclude by extending my warmest congratulations to rapporteur pascal arimont for his excellent work on this difficult subject.
mr president, as we start a new political year, we look back on a turbulent summer. we are still coping with the corona epidemic. the american retreat from afghanistan brought the taliban back to power and fear back to the eyes of women and girls. we also saw flooding due to heavy rainfall, and extreme heat on our own continent. this summer has reminded us there is still much to be done: on geopolitics, climate, health, digital security, our role in the world, and migration, to name a few. there is a need for a strong european cooperation. i think the coming political year should revolved around one word: ‘deliver’. deliver on our role in the world that is increasingly unstable. deliver on climate policies to cut down emissions, meet our climate targets in 2050 and adapt to new climate situations. deliver on digital. deliver on security for our citizens and standing for our common values and the protection of the rule of law and democracy using all instruments available. deliver on migration, to prevent people from taking dangerous routes that take them a long way from home and possibly to a life in uncertainty. deliver on revitalising the european union with the conference on the future of europe, with our citizens at its core. ms von der leyen, your commission is almost halfway, and the next half must be about delivering. there is enough opportunity to do so, and today we call on you to do so: not only words, but action and implementation. in your introduction, you mentioned also that you already have delivered, but for renew europe it’s not enough. but let me also turn me to my colleagues: we, as the european parliament, also have to deliver to meet the expectations of our citizens. last week we, as renew, published our roadmap in paris for the coming months and extended our hand to all those in the european parliament who want to deliver. let me ask you all: are you ready to take that responsibility with us, like a parliamentary majority, and deliver on all of those important issues? we as renew are ready, and it’s time to deliver, deliver, deliver!
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank you for a very multifaceted and very lively debate. and i want to make it clear before we go: some people have told us that we are already approaching the halfway point of the mandate. no, no, the commission has been in office for 20 months. the mandate is for 60 months. that means we have two-thirds of the time left. and i am determined to use every month, every day and every hour to move europe forward. but this debate has shown, and this is impressive, and i know the european parliament as well, that there is an overwhelming, a large majority with the drive and the will to implement. and that is precisely the task we have to tackle. we have a lot of big bills on the table right now. we must do everything we can to ensure that, with committed negotiations and i know that laws will be changed as a result of these negotiations, we have the will to conclude. the people of europe are waiting for it, and the tasks are too urgent to be left unaddressed for long. but i felt that will here today. let's make that happen. because when we look at our task for the century, the fight against climate change, we all know: we don't have a century. we have very little time. and that's why it's so important that we give our response, yes, our commitment, to how we're going to address this climate crisis. the big bill is here. i know this is a herculean task. but it is also a great opportunity to influence the course of things for the better. we all feel that the exploitation of nature cannot go on like this. so let us go ahead and tackle this task with the strength, the energy, the creativity and the european passion that i know you have. our single market is good in the economic recovery because we have managed for the first time in such a severe crisis to actually bring the european union together, with all levels working together towards a common goal. we have not reached an intergovernmental agreement, but this time we have succeeded in uniting everyone with nextgenerationeu to raise money and invest it, to stop the looming economic crisis, the looming economic collapse and actually accelerate the recovery through investment. we have deliberately called the programme nextgenerationeu, because the philosophy behind it is that when we take this money - and this is right, because we do not want to get into a paralysis of the economy and an increase in unemployment, but on the contrary we want investments so that the economy jumps - so when we take this money, we have to use it in such a way that it is in the interest of the next generation, the young people. and that's the issue of digital. and that's the big issue of fighting climate change. if i look at where we are now - we have launched this programme at record speed - we see that 18 member states have now completed their negotiations and the programme is running. two member states have not yet submitted it. it is important to us that this programme should be based on two principles: one is investment, yes, but it comes with reform. and i have heard a lot of encouragement, a lot of legitimate demands today on the important issue of the rule of law. i also received two questions from an interviewer, and unfortunately that interviewer is no longer here to hear the answers. but i still want to give it. the first question you asked was where do we get the principles of the rule of law? the answer is very simple and clear: these principles are enshrined in the treaties of the european union and in the charter of fundamental rights. that's where the answers are. and the commission is the guardian of these treaties. and we have instruments, from article 7 proceedings to infringement proceedings, to help us to deal with the problems of the environment. you know the rules of the infringement procedure, but it can also end in sanctions. we have made use of these possibilities, including the reports on the rule of law and the conditionality mechanism. i want to reiterate that when it comes to protecting our budget, we will pursue every case with everything in our power. and i can tell you that in the coming weeks the first written communications will be sent. the same questioner asked where the foundations and rules of nextgenerationeu actually stand. the answer is also clearly legally grounded. and then there are the investments, and then there are the reforms, and these are the country-specific recommendations. and country-specific recommendations must then be implemented in the reform mechanism. and if judicial independence is included in the country-specific recommendations, then we want to see in the plans the reforms that make that possible. until we have that, we can't close. and if the country-specific recommendations include the call to fight corruption, then we want to see measures, steps to fight corruption actually included in the national reconstruction plans, otherwise we cannot approve these reconstruction plans. that's the stage we're in right now. and, ladies and gentlemen, i know that many other important issues are still on the agenda after four hours of debate. that was my short answer, but i also wanted to say thank you for the encouragement. i thank you for the energy or the will to act that i felt today. all these issues are vital to the survival of our european union and its future. and when i speak of the future, they are vital for the survival of young people. and since i know that you are all committed to improving our european union for young people, i can only say: let's get on with it!
mr president, i say to president von der leyen: the recommendations of the council of europe regarding spain had a very long list of homework that has not been followed, and you are silent about it. the spanish government has taken no action to stop repression and to end judicial abuse. just a few days ago, a spokesman for the spanish popular party was boasting in a newspaper interview that his party has the support of the majority of the judiciary, and no one seems uncomfortable about this. authoritarian judges on an anti—catalan crusade do the dirty work for mr pedro sánchez. looking away from the elephant in the room will not work! and it is costly as long as europe denounces its obligation to check on spain’s authoritarian and illegal tendencies. europe is bound to become the alibi for any bully that needs one, let it be morocco, turkey, russia, saudi arabia or soon the powers of asia. spain is the achilles heel of the eu, its national insecurity that needs to crush all plurality is the backdoor for the authoritarianism spreading to the european institutions. do not let this happen under your watch!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful to the commission for the debate. what remains of this debate on the state of the european union? a lot of buzzwords, a lot of wishful thinking, but no convincing idea. and i'd like to help you with that. my idea, or my suggestion for an idea, would be that we develop the european union together into a safe haven, a social safe haven. three examples: you've addressed the staff who have been on the front lines of the pandemic. this staff needs more than applause. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this is not only what the staff want, but what the people want. secondly, the digital transformation. we must have the courage to confront the monopoly, to open up the market to small and mediumsized enterprises, to protect data, to protect consumers and, above all, to ensure the participation of the economically weak, in other words, to create a social and digital transformation. and with climate change and climate protection, it's clear that this project must also be socially protected, so it's a social-ecological climate protection. this is my idea, my proposal for a european union of social protection.
the eu is a wonderful complement to europe, mr president, if the right decisions are taken. the euro should be a choice for member states. the current monetary policy is creating bubbles, which among other things have made housing unaffordable for our children. the eu must stop giving free money, because that makes people. but it must respect the original rules we agreed in the stability and growth pact. that's what's stimulating weak economies to reform. we use clean nuclear energy without air pollution and co2 emissions. we have the preservation of our beautiful nature, and we have the security of supply, which keeps energy affordable. that's important for a healthy economy. we protect our borders and our beautiful cultures. we help people in danger. but we also protect our welfare state by only admitting people who add value to our society. we're making our kids resilient by teaching them to think critically in school. finally, the eu respects sovereignty. the eu is 27 member states, a great diversity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. covid-19 is a disruption to our way of life worldwide. as we are still in the midst of the pandemic, we can and must now set the course for a sustainable and forward-looking approach. everyone knows that we have to take care of climate protection. but that this has to go hand in hand with the preservation of biodiversity, unfortunately, does not. it is the task of this house to take the decisive steps to ensure that after the pandemic, there can be no more "this". is it not enough that science certifies that we humans are responsible for the greatest extinction of animal and plant species today? how can we maintain a purely economic ratio here? the conservation of biodiversity and the creation of new spaces for biodiversity must be the core of our development cooperation and also the guiding principle of our world trade policy - alongside, of course, climate protection. this report is a first step in that direction.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i think this debate has showed that biodiversity loss, together with climate change, is one of the defining global threats of our time. and, as many of you demand it, urgent action is needed and urgent global action is needed. i thank again the european parliament for supporting external action that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainable development, and i thank you for supporting the european green deal. we are positioning the eu as a leader in global action to reverse biodiversity loss and fight climate change. quite many of you actually were referring and demanding this holistic approach and also coherence between different policy sectors. so under the current multiannual financial framework and in particular global europe, we aim to protect, restore and sustainably manage the natural resources that are essential for human prosperity and well-being. so the external dimension of our biodiversity strategy 2030, the forestry strategy 2030 and the new eu climate adaptation strategy and the farm to fork strategy, they all provide important roadmaps for our engagement, and i personally really agree with you that only with this consistent policy coherence do we have possibilities to succeed. so we need to have this holistic approach in order to succeed. in addition, the commission’s recent trade policy review highlights the importance of bringing eu trade in line with environmental and social sustainability. let me conclude by thanking you for your engagement on this important agenda. i also want to thank you for mentioning so many times the sustainable development goals and agenda 2030, which is the main framework for our developing cooperation. and i also want to confirm my personal engagement to drive this agenda and the sustainable development agenda forward.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i thank you all, because i think there is a growing awareness, as the commissioner said, that the green deal is primarily about defending the climate, but the second pillar is biodiversity: we can fight co2, if there are no longer any ecosystems, life is impossible, we destroy life. so i see that there is a realisation that the european union - and if we can double the budget, that will be great - really needs to defend the diversity of ecosystems. to this end, a second word was regularly repeated in your speeches, there was a holistic vision, but there was also the vision of coherence between what is done in europe and what is done in developing countries. we must not contradict ourselves, because if we subsidize industrialists who extract fossil fuels or who damage the environment and if we do not sufficiently strengthen the legislation and we can have an influence through double standards, you see that all the efforts made at the level of the european union will not be able to have an impact. i therefore think that the term 'coherence' in our policies is very important. finally, i have often heard you speak of trade policy. our trade agreements are flawed, in that they do not sufficiently emphasise the constraints of biodiversity conservation. trade is first, but i think we really need to reinforce the importance of climate and biodiversity in our trade agreements, with a deterrent for countries like brazil, but you could think of uruguay, paraguay, etc. we're talking about imported deforestation and it's our responsibility. so i think if everyone agrees, we could go a long way and show that europe is really leading the way in the defence of life in general.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 october 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. on the face of it, this is not a bad report. it emphasises the importance of biodiversity for human health, rural development, fisheries, agriculture, etc. land grabbing, deforestation, the destruction of marine ecosystems and the like must be avoided at all costs. i must say, however, that parliament is missing the mark when it comes to solutions. more financial aid to developing countries, more control over land grabs in trade negotiations, and less meat eating, that's really not going to make a difference. we have to sweep our own front door first: stop using biomass, which is causing massive deforestation. stop building giant offshore wind farms, which disturb the birds and fish (and thus biodiversity) and destroy the local fisheries. stop demonizing meat, because better meat from home than imported soy. nor does the legalisation of the debate - by making a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment a human right - offer a solution. we should not hold the judge responsible, but make the right choices ourselves.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, without knowing, we are all being tracked, followed and identified on the streets by facial recognition cameras. this is dangerous, intrusive and disproportionate. imagine waking up one day with the police barging into your house after ai has flagged you as a suspect. then it’s up to you to prove your innocence. it is you versus the computer. and the myth that a calculation is more ethical than a human is dangerous, especially where decisions impact people’s lives. so to my colleagues from the epp: let’s be realistic. ai is not a quick solution to fight crime or terrorism. an ai camera will not detect radicalisation, and automating police work is not a substitute for police funding and community workers. looking at the us, in new york city and boston, replacing ai-driven predictive policing with community policing lowered crime rates. and san francisco and boston have already banned biometric surveillance in public spaces. so not only is a ban perfectly feasible, we in the eu are far behind in our ethical ai choices. and if we as parliament are serious about making the eu a leader in ethical ai and fundamental human rights, let’s ban biometric surveillance in public spaces.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. and domestic violence is a big taboo, and anyone who shares their story publicly is going to be stigmatized. "but why didn't you leave him?" is a question that all victims will recognize. domestic violence is regularly dismissed as an internal family matter, a ruling that protects only perpetrators. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to call your attention today to the thousands of children who are caught between these divorcing parents. for them, a safe home is not a given, as child protection is still not given sufficient priority in family law cases. and that is why this parliament calls for the protection of children to be placed at the heart of family law throughout europe. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east.
mr president, commissioner, 60 per cent of all truck drivers are tired while driving. that's dangerous for them and for all of us on the road. that is why we have this proposal to improve road safety on our roads. targeted action must be taken to ensure that drivers are not tired while driving and have good working conditions. in the netherlands, we have had success in making it compulsory for all new lorries to have parking air conditioning and heating, so that drivers have the right temperature in the cab when they rest. i am therefore pleased that my proposal to examine the parking garage throughout europe as part of road safety has been adopted by the european parliament. and just as important: i often speak to drivers who tell me that the control of european transport rules is different in each member state. that 's frustrating . eu rules should apply in every country, be controlled in every country and be similarly fined. i therefore asked the commission to look at the implementation by all member states of the rules of the mobility package. there's no point in having clear rules if enforcement is a mess. there's a huge shortage of professional drivers. let's work on better and healthier working conditions.
mr president, one year ago today we were in high anticipation of the approaching us elections and all hoping for a new wind to blow through washington, dc, hoping to reconnect with our old partner and ally and hoping for new opportunities to work together. some of these hopes have yet to come true. now, one year later, this new opportunity presented itself – the new trade and tech council. a timely and necessary forum for cooperation on tackling today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. in a world where illiberal forces are expanding, we simply need each other to do this. this is also an opportunity to solve our outstanding issues once and for all, such as steel and aluminium tariffs, to name an important one. eu companies do not pose a threat to the national security of the united states. please stop with this ridiculous argument. i hope that the ttc will serve as a step in the right direction, because only by showing leadership and working together can we make the most positive change for our citizens and businesses on both sides of the atlantic.
mr president, one year after the fraudulent presidential elections, the situation in belarus politically, and human rights situation has only further deteriorated. as my colleague already pointed out, the eu must step up its support of the belarusian society, and make our sanctions and measures more effective. but in the meantime, lukashenko has looked for a strategy to silence or punish the eu and the member states for rightly supporting democratic opposition. the use of migrants and refugees as a geopolitical tool at the borders is shameful and disgusting; it should be strongly condemned, and in no way become effective. but we also need to ensure we do not play the same game as lukashenko does, and this is actually, what we exactly see happening now. poland, latvia and lithuania are keeping the borders closed for asylum seekers who ask for protection, and even refrain from giving them food, water and shelter for many weeks now. five migrants have died at the borders, and many others, among them afghan and syrian refugees, are still kept in a deplorable and threatening situation. no one is allowed access to these people, despite clear instructions from the european court of human rights, which are completely disregarded. until now, the most important measures from the message from the eu was that the eu stands behind poland, latvia and lithuania. of course, we need to support those states, but at the same time, not accept that normal eu rules on schengen and asylum are so painfully violated. when will the high representative and the commission clearly speak up against instrumentalisation of migrants and refugees from both sides? we urge you, commission, to immediately act to ensure that no more people will die, that access to protection is guaranteed. of course, we need to give support, but let us show real solidarity by relocating asylum seekers... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs. this report can really help to ensure that future funding goes hand in hand with accountability and human rights compliance. for that, we need democratic oversight and to make sure that funding is used for the right purposes, for instance, with development policy money. we also see a high risk that funding border and migration management would facilitate human rights violations, such as refusing access to protection or even worse. just take a look at yesterday’s un report on libya. a stronger conditionality between funding and human rights is much needed. for all these reasons, we urge the commission to ensure transparent and independent monitoring of how the funds are implemented and how fundamental rights are respected. it’s not the first time that we are asking for this. the parliament has pressed for this many times now, and it’s high time to take action as the eu’s credibility is really at stake.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, covid-19 has struck mercilessly all over the world, and certainly in the tourism sector. 2020 was a disaster year for the travel industry. throughout the eu, 27 million people are directly and indirectly employed in the tourism sector. the entrepreneurs are often small family businesses. 27 million people saw their income and savings evaporate every month. so we had to act quickly. joint purchases were made and vaccination programmes were launched. and just as importantly, the covid-19 certificate was developed in time and allowed for the summer season. this is what the eu means in the daily lives of all of us. the borders can be reopened and we have our right to free movement within the union largely back. the eu has also made a lot of money available for tourism economic recovery. unfortunately, my country, the netherlands, has still not called for this. i therefore conclude by appealing to the outgoing government in the netherlands: the commission will also be able to submit a request for a grant in the interest of a strong and sustainable tourism sector.
madam president, for years, platforms have been profiting from the large—scale spread of disinformation and hate, and their decisions are driven by profit, image and shareholder value. any impact on society or democracy is just collateral damage. and as the courageous whistle—blower frances haugen revealed in the past weeks, facebook’s algorithms are programmed to promote and spread content that feeds anger such as hate, fake news and shocking content. people with many followers were exempted from all of facebook’s rules and could post whatever they liked, including fake news. and this while instagram is worsening one in three teenage girls’ body issues and impacting a generation’s mental health. and they know the impact of their algorithm but refuse to do anything about it. these same big corporations are acting as guardians of our online space and miserably failing, and this is why we shouldn’t look at them to fix the problem for us. incentivising platforms to delete even more only reinforces their power over our free speech. we have to tackle the root causes, which are a small number of very large and powerful platforms controlling our public debate and amplifying fake news and hate on a large scale specifically targeting certain people for profit. what we get to see online should not be up to ceos and shareholders. we need to break big tech’s power over internet users. let us ban manipulation by toxic algorithms, microtargeting and dark patterns and give people more meaningful control over recommender algorithms. how we regulate today’s tech companies can only protect and strengthen our future society if we make bold choices. we need to take the power over what we see online out of the hands of private companies and place it firmly back in the hands of the people.
madam president, the huge increase in electricity prices is worrying. in spain, for example, the megawatt hour has increased fivefold in one year. the causes are many, but the main factor is the rise in the price of gas and not, as some claim, the emissions trading system. pointing the finger at the green deal as the main culprit for the increase in energy prices is simply a fallacy. the best way to bring down prices is to accelerate the deployment of renewables, which produce electricity at a more competitive, stable cost and without being subject to geopolitical vagaries. improving energy efficiency will also lower our energy bills because we will consume less. promoting local energy communities will certainly help as well. in turn, governments must put in place more social measures and resources to protect the most vulnerable households from skyrocketing prices. but these interventions must be well targeted: helping those who really need it without giving rise to a hidden subsidy to the fossil fuel sector. and finally, we are also concerned that the price escalation will increase the dominant market position of the large energy companies, as it may lead to the disappearance of small companies in the sector, reducing competition and further strengthening oligopolies. the solution to this price crisis must be found in green, social and competition-enhancing measures.
mr. president, today we're discussing the skyrocketing price of gas with a high risk of energy poverty. mr timmermans said: 'the irony is that if we had switched to renewable energy sources earlier, we would not be in this situation today'. the real irony is that it is climate policy that has caused coal and nuclear power plants to be shut down and gas extraction to be minimized. there's less supply, and that's why the price is going up. the commission obviously has no understanding of market forces, and i have already noticed that some of my colleagues here have no understanding of market forces either. energy demand must now be met by subsidised 'renewables'. i prefer to call them "unreliable", because last summer the wind turbines failed to produce as expected, and the price of gas skyrocketed. france is self-sufficient in nuclear energy and has not had these problems. minister bruno le maire is right. nuclear energy should be included in the taxonomy as clean energy as soon as possible. and for now, the rapidly rising price of carbon emission allowances must be scrapped to relieve citizens and businesses of the financial burden.
mr president, let me begin by making a statement. politicians who only link the excessive price increases we are facing today with our climate plans are fooling their voters. in addition, they do not seem to be interested in a good analysis to come up with solutions that help in the short and long term. but it's our job to protect our households and our businesses. it is unacceptable that these people will be left out in the cold. i already see several companies being forced to stop production because of the high energy prices. but what we're seeing today is the price of not intervening. our climate plans are leading us towards an independent and affordable energy supply throughout europe, for all of europe. we are still too dependent on foreign countries. we must not be held hostage by countries like russia that deliberately keep our gas supplies artificially low. this has to change. and yet other measures are needed in the short term. on behalf of my group we have written a letter of denunciation to president von der leyen and commissioner kadri simson. we are calling for compensatory measures and for the collective purchase of gas to ensure that our gas supplies are in order. mr president, it is not the first time that i have stood here and advocated a fair sharing of the burdens and the pleasures of the energy transition. that is a central point for us as social democrats. but do we dare to have a debate about the disproportionate burden of high energy prices and taxes on our smes and households? that's not evenly divided. the polluter still doesn't pay. and that is a political choice. it is a political choice that these groups should bear the cost. and that choice is one we must change.
president, commissioner, 'can i still pay the bill?' is the question that hangs like a dark cloud over ordinary households as winter approaches. we promised to switch to clean energy for the next generation, and we have to deliver on that promise. but the promise of security of supply and affordability - a public interest - has been too easily left to the market by governments in the energy transition in recent years. with the rapid closure of coal and nuclear plants, we now need plenty of gas. 40% of our gas comes from russia, and that country likes to keep its hands on the gas tap when it suits them. in addition, the demand in the market is high because countries are emerging from the crisis at the same time, and that means a high price. the situation is complex. there are no quick and easy solutions. in the short term, only national governments can keep the energy bill accessible to people. we are also going to have to increase gas supplies so that we do not have the same debate here next year. and in the longer term, european cooperation can and must ensure a sensible energy transition and a sensible dismantling of the current system. we need to reduce energy demand by, for example, insulating houses better. the cleanest and cheapest energy is the energy we don't use. we must increase the production of solar, wind and nuclear energy in particular, because the present situation proves once again that we do not have the luxury of abandoning technology. and we need to better connect the energy systems of countries. in short, a robust energy system and a sensible transition, because a warm home for your family shouldn't depend on your wallet.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, almost 30% of the eu population lives in border regions. regions which are often a long way from national capitals and often feel left behind by them. today’s topic is an example of this. at the same time, these border regions are among those that benefit the most from european cooperation and experience its successes and flaws on a daily basis. being able to cooperate with regions and municipalities on the other side of the border improves daily life in those regions, for people and for businesses, for example, in the border villages of baarle—nassau, in the netherlands, and baarle—hertog, in belgium. in order to improve cross-border cooperation, the commission has proposed a mechanism which would allow member states to use each other’s legislative framework as a means to overcome obstacles. the european cross—border mechanism could help to remove 30-50% of such obstacles and would enable many new cooperation possibilities, such as project crossfire, a joint dutch—german fire brigade in the twente—achterhoek—münsterland region. this project has the support of the regions on both sides of the border, but has been delayed for several years due to the differences in legislation between both countries. the commission presented its proposal in may 2018, and parliament adopted its position more than two and a half years ago. the council, however, has been dragging its feet for the last two years, first by waiting over a year for a legal opinion and then by taking another year to shelve this file altogether. this is not transparent, not democratic, and this is not the way for institutions to work with each other. we understand that some member states have legitimate concerns, but the best way to address those concerns is to discuss them and to put them on the table. we therefore call on the council to take a position and to start negotiations with us: maybe governments in the capitals feel that the border regions are far away, but for us, in the european parliament, and the epp group, border regions are at the core of our policy.
president, minister and colleagues, 30% of all people in the eu live in a border region. and 30% of all people experience major obstacles to access to work, including disconnected public transport, but also social rights: we've seen the benefits of the new law, pensions, benefits, and more recently during the covid crisis, entrepreneurs who had their businesses across the border and therefore didn't receive support. there is a solution to these obstacles. it is on the table, summed up under the name of the 'cross-border mechanism'. but what do we see? the member states have not adopted this proposal. and i just heard that they've actually decided not to go through with it. the minister says: the lawyers said it's difficult. yeah, it's certainly difficult. nobody here said it was easy. it's only difficult when you live in a border region. and you ask us: let's take a walk together. yes, we've been on the road with you for two years. we're working on a solution. you won't say anything. you're gonna drop the case right before the finish line. so i ask you: what do you think the solution is?
author. – mr president, it has been over half a year since the military forces in myanmar violently took power, arrested its political leaders and issued a state of emergency. in response to the coup, protests broke out and the security forces have targeted protesters, resulting in the killing of over a 1 000 people, more than 8 000 detained and over 230 000 people displaced, adding to the number of displaced people in myanmar, now at over half a million. torture is widely used, and the united nations special rapporteur has indicated that the junta’s widespread systematic attacks against the people of myanmar, likely amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes under international law. this crisis has been worsened due to a severe economic crisis and the covid—19 health care crisis. health care workers are attacked, health facilities destroyed or medical equipment confiscated. plus, the rohingya issue – the rohingya ethnic minority are continuously targeted and denied their existence by the same tatmadaw that oversaw the mass atrocities committed against rohingya since 2017. the human rights violations must stop immediately. prisoners must be released. the european council must continue to impose targeted sanctions against those responsible for the coup and those responsible for the atrocities against rohingya and other citizens of myanmar.
author. – mr president, eight months have passed since the military organised the coup in myanmar and the horrific human rights violations towards civilians – all civilians, including ethnic and religious minorities – continue. the european parliament should today reiterate that the only legitimate representatives of the democratic aspirations of the people of myanmar are the committee representing the sidelined parliament, the crph, and the national unity government. we should encourage and demand that the eu representatives form a very close relationship with these two bodies. sanctions may not always have an immediate impact, but they are the best means that we have in our toolbox. so the european parliament is today most likely to be calling for a fourth round of sanctions against those economic and financial entities that guarantee the money flows to the junta. we are talking about two state—owned banks, the myanmar foreign trade bank (mftb) and the myanmar investment and commercial bank (micb), through which all foreign currency is collected, and we need finally to add the state—owned myanmar oil and gas enterprise (moge) to the list of sanctioned economic entities. and let us not forget the personal sanctions against those who have been perpetrators of the violence against the rohingya minority. the european enterprises also have their responsibility, and that’s why they are prohibited from having any dealings with the sanctioned entities. we should call for very clear consequences and sanctions against the breaches of those sanctions. perhaps there is no quick fix to this terrible situation in myanmar, but we should very much cooperate with international organisations. asean has been a big hope, but unfortunately a very big disappointment as well. they do not seem to be able to recognise how important cooperation with the national unity government is, and i hope this will change in the forthcoming asean summit at the end of the month.
author. – mr president, according to un high commissioner michelle bachelet, the situation in post—military coup myanmar has already evolved into a multidimensional human rights catastrophe with the junta heavily cracking down on innocent people, in particular ethnic and religious minorities. russia and china block a reasonable solution at the level of the un security council, while heavily benefiting from arms supplies to the junta. we, the collective west, have to put places like myanmar, but also ukraine, high on the agenda, while, and when, engaging in dialogue with systemic rivals.
author. mr president, the un rapporteur on burma has made it very clear: the actions being taken by the international community are not working. we have to go further. the same military responsible for the rohingya genocide are today crushing the burmese people and this is possible thanks to the funding they get from their business network. it is therefore crucial to cut these revenues, and to do that would be to impose sanctions against all companies linked to the military junta, especially those related to oil, gas and minerals, which are today the ones that are giving the most profits. secondly, all relations between european banks and companies such as total, eni or shell with companies directly or indirectly linked to the military junta must be stopped. it is also urgent to support the burmese democratic forces, to recognise the government of national unity and to ensure that humanitarian aid does not benefit the military and does not contribute to further human rights violations, that is, that aid is channelled through local civil society organisations and in particular ethnic minority organisations. despite the brutal repression, hundreds of thousands of people in burma continue to oppose the military regime. once again, the burmese people are setting an example of struggle and dignity. we can't keep looking the other way.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! on february 1st, the military carried out a coup in myanmar. since then, the country has seen mass protests demanding the restoration of civilian rule. however, peaceful protests are being aggressively suppressed by the military. the forces that should have been defending their citizens from aggression became the aggressors themselves. according to human rights activists, more than 900 people have been killed, including about 75 children, and several thousand protesters have been detained. the european union is firmly on the side of democracy. the result of the election must be respected. we therefore demand the restoration of the government, which has received a mandate from the citizens to exercise it, and the release of the detained representatives of the authorities. the union should also strongly demand an end to the violence and repression against peaceful protesters and the release of those arrested. myanmar's military leaders must realize that human rights violations cannot go unpunished and that they are directly responsible for the current situation. the european union is also a major actor in the fight against racism and xenophobia. freedom of religion must be guaranteed. the union should take a firm stand on this issue. we need a strong commitment from the european union's special envoy for promoting religious freedom. it is also necessary to monitor the situation on a continuous basis. i would like parliament to be kept informed of developments in myanmar and the situation of religious minorities.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the crimes committed by the burmese military since the coup d'état have been described as crimes against humanity by human rights watch, which states that, by their generalized nature, these crimes and repression are not individual actions but targeted actions by the junta. the resumption of fighting and the subsequent insecurity in ethnic minority areas have also displaced more than 210 000 people within the country since the coup. as you understand, the situation in the country is critical and it is high time that action was taken against the violations that are being committed. we therefore call on the military to immediately release all those unjustly detained since the coup. we also call on the council and its member states to continue to impose and enforce targeted sanctions. we call on the member states to enforce the sanctions imposed on all burmese companies linked to the state, particularly in the wood and gemstone industries. but the question of the responsibility of our companies which are linked to the burmese economy is also on the agenda, and it is important that these companies can guarantee that they are not complicit in what is happening in burma today. it would also be necessary to impose prohibitions on international money transfers to the two burmese state banks. finally, we ask the commission to carry out a rapid investigation into the trade preferences for access to european markets enjoyed by burma.
mr. president, since august 2017, at least 700,000 rohingya have fled persecution in myanmar to bangladesh. many of them are christians. this situation was further exacerbated by the military coup. religious persecution continues to threaten religious minorities in myanmar. clearly, there is a need for quick and tangible help. hungary has supported the improvement of the situation of the rohingya refugee community in need through the hungary helps programme. he built homes for 20 families by procuring medical equipment, medicines, providing food for pregnant mothers and children, and working with the roman catholic archdiocese of dhaka. our objective was clear from the beginning. aid must be put in place to prevent further migration of refugees to europe. so the task is twofold. to stand up for religious freedom, to stand up for persecuted muslims and christians, and to provide effective aid to those in need locally.
mr president, the events of 1 february this year turned the clock back on the steady process of democratic transition in myanmar. since the coup, as the authors have pointed out, an estimated 1 120 people have been killed, including at least 75 children. military authorities have arrested over 8 000 people, including hundreds of politicians, activists and civil servants. the human rights record in myanmar is appalling, and the violence and human rights violations committed by the armed forces against ethnic and religious minorities is deeply concerning. myanmar is home to around 135 major ethnic groups, who are constantly discriminated against. the rohingya people, for instance, have faced decades of discrimination and repression, which my colleagues have strongly condemned in the number of resolutions over the years. i welcome the recent sanctions imposed by the council against members of the military and their enterprises. however, we in europe must continue to send strong messages of support and solidarity to the citizens in myanmar, who long for a democratic future for their country. these sanctions must be expanded. we call for the immediate and unconditional release of all political detainees, including journalists. the democratic elections of november 2020 must be fully respected and the civilian government immediately reappointed. the military junta has replaced democracy with its authoritarianism: relative peace with a brutal reign of terror. in partnership with the un and asean, we must redouble our efforts to bring this repressive and callous junta to an end.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the military in myanmar staged a full-scale military coup in february of this year. democratically elected representatives were arrested and a state of emergency was imposed. a prominent human rights organization has analyzed more than 50 films that show the systematic use of deadly violence in myanmar. the military is using weapons that are normally used in combat and is targeting people, civilians, in the country. there is evidence that officers have used extrajudicial executions and indiscriminate killing in the country. over a thousand people have been killed. the military has made it a sport to shoot protesters with automatic weapons. the developments are entirely reprehensible and the eu must immediately impose further sanctions targeting key figures with strong links to the junta. the military in myanmar must immediately stop the deadly violence and calm the situation in the country and release all those arbitrarily detained.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in myanmar. the opposition will be removed. christian leaders are killed or disappear behind bars. churches are being burned. rohingya must flee for their lives. today we are sending a strong signal with our resolution. the rule in myanmar must be stopped. i would therefore urge the council to use the instrument of targeted sanctions even more actively, particularly also against leaders who play a key role in the suppression of religious minorities. we can't do this alone. the international community must take a collective stand and certainly also call russia and china to order, because in the end it is they who are contributing to the terrible situation in myanmar with their arms supplies.
author. – mr president, my body, my rights. words that do not seem controversial or political, but definitely are. the texas law is shocking and humiliating. it allows private citizens to sue anyone in texas who assists a woman in getting an abortion. people you do not know, to whom you did not give consent, decide on your future and your body. women are constantly fighting for autonomy and the right to decide for their own. the news this morning that the federal judge has blocked the texas abortion law gives me hope, hope that the international order is strong and continues its fight for women’s rights. the law disproportionately targets women from lower income classes and women of colour. pressure on women’s rights is a worldwide phenomenon, including in this house. it is essential that the resistance to opposition, those who believe in her body, her right, stand in solidarity with women across the world. but some people in this house do not want that. you want men and others to decide for you, your daughters and sisters. obviously, you don’t want real emancipation. you want women to keep depending on others, and the goal of the wave of anti-abortion laws and the politicians that push for it is to put female sexuality under strict and brutal state control, and it is dehumanising. while the texas law is unprecedented, many members of the european parliament would limit abortion rights tomorrow if they had the opportunity. even female members of this house. so members, colleagues, i am urging you to vote in favour of this resolution for the women in texas first and foremost, and for women and girls across the eu or who watching this debate right now. we need to fight this battle. it is not over. don’t underestimate it. it’s her body. it’s her choice. let’s keep fighting for that.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, gandhi once said that the measure of a society's civilization is its treatment of animals. inspired by this, and looking at the "farmer to the plate" strategy, i would like to say that the civilization of a society is measured by how we treat animals, climate and biodiversity. the present mass production of processed foods and intensive animal husbandry add to a plethora of problems. the excessive use of antibiotics, pesticides and fertilizers is causing a loss of biodiversity, an increase in animal-to-human diseases, animal suffering, climate change and unhealthy eating habits. we must not only talk about the total quantity of food we produce in europe, but also about the quality of it. the quality of our agricultural sector is one of the best in the world and must remain so, but with the lowest possible use of harmful substances and harmful emissions. whereas the first priority was to produce as much as possible and as efficiently as possible, quality and local production must once again be at the centre. and our farmers must get a fair price from buyers, purchasers and other intermediaries. because that too can be said, no, it must be said. producing below or at cost is simply not acceptable. it is high time for a change that puts healthy, affordable and sustainably produced food at the centre. this is not only in the interests of the climate, but also in the interests of everyone's health and above all in the interests of our farmers. so i say: support this compromise, support this resolution.
madam president, i would like to thank you. agriculture accounts for as much as a tenth of eu greenhouse gas emissions. despite a third of the eu budget going to agriculture, often with climate implications, emissions are not falling. a report by the european court of auditors finds that these climatic changes have had no effect on climate for a full decade. this is very alarming. this is not good enough. we must take strong action on the part of the eu in the field of agricultural policy. the soil to table strategy is a first step in the right direction towards sustainable food production. it is good that we are now, in a decade, going to halve the use of pesticides, which are harmful to nature and to health. it is good that we are halving the emissions of nutrients in nature, the baltic sea overfishing is an example and this has to stop. it is also necessary to reduce the use of antibiotics in agriculture to avoid new pandemics. it is good that we are taking a stand against the often intensive animal husbandry of today and are once again showing that we in parliament want to see the phasing out of animal testing and confinement. it is now up to the commission to translate these objectives into concrete proposals for action on climate, environment, health and animals.
president, commissioner, members, the european commission presented the objectives of the 'farmer to table' strategy before the impact assessment was published. it is now clear that we as the european union are becoming more dependent on other countries for our basic needs (food). and this is happening at a time when food prices are already rising and more and more agricultural land is being used for industry, housing, roads, nature and sun pastures. every acre of farmland counts. i am certainly not opposed to the ambition to use less pesticides and less fertilisers. but it is important that we have alternatives to make the best use of our agricultural land. an important alternative to manure is very logical animal manure. yet there is european legislation that prevents farmers from using their own animal manure to optimise their crops and forces them to use more manure. that's the world upside down. my question to the commission is therefore: when will this legislation be amended?
madam president, i have to say i always find a debate on agriculture and our food system quite astonishing. i think we all agree that there are a couple of developments in our sector that are concerning all of us. we see less and less farmers. they have less and less profits. we see that our rural areas are under threat. on top of that, we see the impact of climate change affecting our farmers. we see the loss of biodiversity. this current model is not sustainable. something needs to change. and every time when i hear people complaining about the eventual exodus of rural areas – it is already happening. and that is because the current system is not functioning. something needs to change. everyone only referring to copa-cogeca – they are for business as usual. you are defending business as usual. it is about time for change. this report is an attempt at it. it is a compromise, but i do compliment both rapporteurs for that attempt. but i would like to know from the commission: how do all the ‘farm to fork ‘ambitions relate to the cap reform that we will vote in a month’s time? in may last year, you already concluded that there is a lot that is not synchronised and i see that threat even more, so i would expect a reply from the commission on that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, defending the 'made in italy' and millions of italian farmers and breeders: that's our mission. that is why we say out loud that farm to fork is in danger of becoming a dangerous attack on italian agriculture. europe must stop bombarding the 'made in italy' with sabotage actions such as nutri-score, the synthetic meat made in the laboratory, a scandalous green light to the croatian prošek which unfairly competes with the italian prosecco. italian agriculture is the greenest in europe. italy is the first country in the world to have the largest number of organic farms. the italian farmers are the first defenders of the environment and, despite these firsts, europe wants to impose new absurd rules on our farmers. no, dear european bureaucrats, you are completely off track because you do not understand that environmental sustainability cannot exist unless the economic sustainability of farms is protected first. environmental fanaticism will lead to the closure of thousands of businesses with the very dangerous consequence of abandonment of the fields. we will not allow brussels to massacre italian agriculture, because a country without agriculture is a country without a future.
mr president, tomorrow we will all have to confess: are we going to embrace the over-ambitious farm to fork targets, with no impact assessment at all and with more and more green to orange signals? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market. or do we take ourselves seriously as a parliament and call the commission to order, which seems to be blind to all the warning signs? that's the point. it is time to pull the emergency brake by not giving the green light now to the unattainable top-down targets that are being proposed. and, commissioner, one more time: why did you and your colleagues not inform us of the first warning signals from your own services during the recent negotiations on the common agricultural policy? i am referring to the jrc report, which was actually completed in january. we cannot help but take this very seriously. this is a matter of food security.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner schmit, the european commission wrote in its last report on the netherlands (and i quote): subsidies for social housing lead to an underdeveloped private rental market. this is how the european commission views living in the netherlands, only as a market, not as a right. house prices in europe have risen by 7% this year, and in the netherlands they are rising the fastest. the housing protests in the netherlands show that people are fed up with it. in addition, homelessness continues to rise. access to social housing and the fight against homelessness are clearly set out in the european pillar of social rights and i therefore ask the european commission to take swift action on the following three points: encourage countries to invest in social housing through the semester; provide sufficient budget for the european platform to combat homelessness so that we can really get to work on ending homelessness by 2030; and help cities curb illegal vacation rentals by requiring platforms to share data with municipalities about rental addresses. housing is a human right. you should put that in your policy.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, president von der leyen, prime minister, representatives of the council, dear colleagues, when the european union is united, poland is protected. when the european union is united, poland is protected. throughout the most painful history of this continent, it has been poland and its brave citizens that have suffered most from european divisions. that’s why, your attempts, prime minister, to threaten the stability and safety of the union are even more sinister. for years, you have been affecting the mind of polish people with lies and manipulation about european rules and regulations. can you tell me which laws exactly you find so reprehensible? protecting freedom of religion, the right of individuals, or maybe the freedom of press or the independence of the judiciary? let me remind you that poland joined the eu precisely to protect these values. you are not being honest with the polish people, prime minister, and you know it. we have all listened to your denials, but the truth is your actions are a sly way to lead poland out of the union. start being honest and explain to your start-ups they will lose development funds, tell your farmers they will miss out on subsidies and tell your students that they can forget erasmus. member states are entitled to want changes in the legal order of the union, but the way to do this is to propose, to discuss and compromise. this is how our union works; unilateral illegal actions cannot be accepted and will have consequences. we, renew europe, call on you, president von der leyen, to act immediately on the following: reject the recovery plan for poland, trigger the rule of law conditionality mechanism. no more ifs or buts. prime minister, i still hope we can one day walk the path together on the road of cooperation, mutual understanding and respect. but until that moment, you will bear the consequences of your actions and have to face your people when they find out you sold them a lie. i want to conclude by quoting a wise and brave polish resistance fighter, wanda traczyk-stawska, who spoke at a pro-european rally 10 days ago. ‘we have always been in europe. no one will take us out. this is our europe’. and you might learn some lessons from her.
i am speaking today, mr president, first of all to the colleagues of this european majority, for whom european cooperation must become a single state centred in brussels. in your view, it is most likely that these oversteps of the european union's powers should be assessed solely and exclusively by the court of justice. it's quite possible that you think that, that you think in a closed legal system. it is also quite possible that your ever-expanding powers of recent years will have to be financially sanctioned and brought to justice, as napoleon enforced his concept of unity with the french army. it is quite possible that you think that in lisbon it was decided once and for all and forever how the european union should work and that the problem that is arising today is only a problem of the appointment of polish judges and of a regime change that you desire in your heart. but let me tell you something. the world is changing, political views are changing. it is clear to everyone that you are wrong, and to an increasing number of european citizens that you are wrong. the idea that 450 million european citizens have decided to voluntarily and consciously surrender their sovereignty to your legal system once and for all is an illusion. let me tell you this: it is a delusion. it's an idea you need to let go of. i would like to ask you to calm down, ladies and gentlemen, and i shall call on you to do so in the words of angela merkel. she visited brussels last week and was asked questions about poland. she visited brussels as a farewell visit to our belgian government. and i will quote her, madam president, in the... madam president, i will switch to german for a quote, so you can really hear ms merkel speaking. but to believe that one can resolve political differences and perhaps also differences in the perception of the european union who should work, who should be the focal points? only through judicial proceedings, i do not think that is correct. we also have great problems, but i advise you to solve them in dialogue and to find compromises. that has always been the essence of the european union, and it must remain so.
mr president, today we are discussing a polish court decision saying that, in cases where the eu has no competence, polish law applies. this should not be controversial. last year, the german constitutional court came to similar conclusions. the truly controversial decision was made in luxembourg, with european judges interfering in the organisation of the polish justice system, which clearly falls outside the authority of the european treaties. you, colleagues, always choose european institutions over national authorities, out of a misguided sense of pro-european sympathy. the true european should accept the division of powers between member states and brussels. the true european should accept that the european union is not a superstate, but an alliance of sovereign nation states, and the true european should accept our unity in diversity. today should have been a lesson in humility and democracy, not an encouragement to continue this undemocratic attack on the polish member state.
mr president, with its decision to deny supremacy of eu law, the polish government is not only undermining the eu, but also its own country. the treaties are here to safeguard equality of the member states but, of course, also the equal rights of all eu citizens. president von der leyen, you expected to solve the rule of law crisis with dialogue and, well, after two years, we must conclude that the situation has only deteriorated. so, we need the sense of urgency in your actions. commission, use all legal and financial means at your disposal now because the house is on fire. the council must finally break its deafening silence and take action and stand up for the polish citizens’ rights, to rely on eu law, to have an independent judiciary and a government that respects their fundamental rights.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, following this debate here i’m forced to draw some obvious conclusions. the polish prime minister has made himself very clear. he calls it abiding by the law. it’s blackmail. i am not susceptible to blackmail, prime minister. and i don’t believe you are either madam president von der leyen. you correctly call yourself the guardian of the treaties, but it entails more than only words and saying you are concerned. this parliament has been concerned for many years now, and we have repeatedly called for action. you must reject the polish law and justice party’s (pis) recovery plan. you must trigger the rule of law mechanism. don’t let the rule breakers win. we cannot afford another two years of stalemate and deterioration. show us you mean it this time, madam president, and you will find us by your side.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, as we emerge from the pandemic, the green shoots of recovery we see must be allowed to flourish. there are challenges that risk undermining our recovery and let’s make sure we, as european legislators, are part of the solution. this is why i strongly welcome your intention to apply the ‘one in, one out’ principle to the commission work programme of 2022. ‘less, but better regulation’ must be our guiding principle. on the content, my group was very happy with the proposal on the european chips act and the cyber resilience act. but where are the proposals to deepen our single market? we celebrate the international success of the oecd global agreement on minimum effective taxation and our group wants to translate this into eu law quickly. the pandemic showed us all the value of our health. our group calls for action to make european healthcare systems more resilient and interoperable. we also want a comprehensive european mental health strategy. adopting this would be an important post-pandemic legacy. mr vice-president, the ‘geopolitical commission’ we were promised is missing in action. on trade, development, but also on migration, there is a lack of ambition. our citizens want a visible europe that protects their interests in a changing world. let’s deliver on that promise and build new strategies and tools. finally, i want to stress the importance of implementation. i give you an example, but there are many others. the rule of law in the eu faces challenges. we had a debate this morning. sometimes it feels like we are in reverse gear, which is why we need a truly european rule of law mechanism. an urgent plea: please, the commission must apply the rule of law conditionality mechanism as soon as possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – madam president, central to the eu budget for 2022 is the recovery from an unprecedented crisis and when one must recover, one focuses on where the harm is, so a doctor treats his or her patients and focuses on where the pain is. in the european union it is women that have been hurt the most. they were on the forefront in all of our healthcare services, and they have experienced excessively high rates of violence at home and enormous difficulties with accessing sexual and reproductive health services during the lockdowns. and despite these challenges, this budget does not contain a single reference to sexual and reproductive health and rights in its 1 348 page document, and the commission often refers to its commitment of achieving a union of equality. true equality does not exist if we ignore the unequal strain that this pandemic has had on women in europe. so the recovery must focus on where the harm is done. we must put our money where it is needed and make gender equality the priority in the budget for 2022.
president, commissioner, a milestone has been reached: that is what i would call the present report by mr weimers. for the first time in its history, the european union is adopting a report on eu-taiwan relations. as a democratic state governed by the rule of law and respecting human rights, as an important trading partner in a strategic, important region and with an innovative society, taiwan is a shining example for the region. but there is always the intimidating and provocative long arm of beijing, which threatens peace and stability in the region. the report by mr weimers is much needed. taiwan deserves international support. that means we have to work out a bilateral investment agreement. the eu should also be more active in advocating taiwan's admission as an observer to international organisations such as the world trade organisation and the world health organisation, especially in the interests of the taiwanese people themselves.
madam president, i'm going to appeal to your generosity in time to make a ten-second incision in this debate. today marks ten years since the end of eta's terrorism in spain. i believe that today, in this cause of european democracy, we must celebrate this great victory of spanish democracy. ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis is putting many families and businesses in an unsustainable situation and can undermine social cohesion, the hopes for economic recovery and public support for the european union's green and digital transition. that is why there can be no other solution to this european problem than a european one, as president sánchez has said recently and as he will say again tomorrow at the european council. ladies and gentlemen, we in this house must support this proposal, as the commission is doing. in the short term we must respond to the needs of the most vulnerable - as the spanish government is doing, mrs montserrat - with fiscal measures and the dissociation of electricity and gas prices. we must jointly negotiate the purchase of gas, as we did with vaccines, and create european strategic reserves, while correcting the financial speculation that is taking place in the markets for co2 emission allowances. and in the medium and long term we must continue to focus on cheaper and cleaner energy, as we have proposed in the european green deal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you. as is often the case, the main item of the european council is not on the agenda. i'm talking about the poles. we saw here yesterday a polish prime minister who refused to engage in dialogue, and it is clear that the polish supreme court is completely politicized and is now being used as a weapon against the european court of justice, which has denounced that politicization. the president of the commission said yesterday that he was prepared to go further and impose financial and other sanctions. but the question i want to ask you today is: why is the council not acting, mr minister? you have the tools to do that: the commission shall adopt the following measures: that's a powerful tool we must use with caution. but the way poland is behaving is beyond imagination. there is more than enough ground to suspend poland's right to vote in the council. we must be clear: europe is not a cash machine where you can simply withdraw money but do not accept its value. mr president, i hope the council will have the courage to take that decision tomorrow.
president. - the debate is closed. the european council will be discussing vaccination strategies in the european union this week. the vaccination strategy of this parliament has recently become clear: the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens. vaccination is a right, not an obligation. in order to have access to work in this parliament, staff and members of parliament are required to undergo a test or to be vaccinated. a negative test result is not enough. a qr code is mandatory. this parliament, the house of democracy, is closing its doors to anyone who has questions about these steps towards a control society. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. do you think everyone's gonna have to have a qr code to get to work? i call on the commission and the council to be vigilant. please, no more division of society and no more corporate control. because freedom with conditions is not freedom.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, two years ago i also made my first plenary speech here, and again it was on a climate resolution: the climate resolution for the madrid cop. and again, that climate resolution was full of wishes and desires, but to be honest, we went to the climate summit with very little concrete plans at the time. we got a call: "come with us!" but it didn't get any more concrete. yes, we have ambitions, we have a wish, we have a dream to be climate neutral by the middle of this century. but it's really different now. we're two years ahead of schedule. we haven't sat still for two years. we have the european green deal. we have our climate bill and we have the ready for 55 package. mr. liese, i agree with you completely. the "ready for 55" package is our response to the energy crisis we are experiencing to become more independent and to get better access to affordable energy. so this year, we're going to the climate summit with concrete plans and we're calling on everyone to join us. let me use a slogan from another political party: we have to 'make a move' now, because climate change is not just in europe. we must put the promises of the paris agreement into action and ensure adequate international funding. because europe must also show leadership and motivate others to do the same. i hope that i will be here next year to talk about cop27 and that we will at least conclude with each other that glasgow has succeeded in giving effect to the paris agreement so that we remain below that 1.5°c or at least that 1.5°c is within reach. but i also hope that we will have taken the first steps towards an international price for co2. president. - the motion for a resolution before us is a good basis for a debate with our partners around the world in two weeks' time. i have high expectations for glasgow now, as i did in paris, especially when i see america back at the table and china has also said that it will achieve climate neutrality, albeit by 2060. let's not forget that the chinese started their industrial revolution 100 years after us.
madam president, the anti-abortion law in poland has been exceptionally harmful and changed the daily lives of polish women and girls. thousands of women have crossed borders to germany, england, the netherlands and belgium – amidst a pandemic, may i remind everyone. the work of ngos such as abortion without borders does not go unnoticed. they are helping thousands of women by accessing the right paperwork, preparing travel arrangements, ensuring safe and legal pathways to abortion. you are true heroes. the polish government has no respect for fundamental rights. they neglect women, they disregard our bodies, and they put women’s lives at risk. commissioner dalli, this is unacceptable. these men in power are criminalising women’s rights. so support ngos financially to ensure safe abortion and make sure the polish government doesn’t receive a penny out of the eu covid-19 recovery fund. so thank you, i say to all the polish women who fight for change. now it’s time the eu fights for you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i must confess it’s with deep concern and also despair that i contribute to this debate. yesterday, in an intense debate on the rule of law, a vast majority in the parliament demanded clear action against the destruction of the rule of law in poland. and that makes me wonder: does the rule of law stop at our borders? for years now, we know that thousands of people have been pushed back from the eu borders. they all could not request for protection. many of them suffered from violence, and a number of them even lost their lives. the silence from the commission, as guardian of the treaties, and from the member states has encouraged border countries to make these push packs a systematic practice, and the debate has even turned from denial to a demand that push-backs are legalised. let’s just hear the council just a minute ago. dear commissioner, i know that you condemned push-backs, but you are the vital actor who is able to put those words into practice. we depend on you to stop these flagrant violations and ensure protection, to start infringement procedures, make funding conditional and to ensure that frontex does not facilitate but prevent push-backs. and you also referred to the new pact proposals. but i hope you realise there is no sense in waiting for new legislation. the current rules have to be respected now, so let’s avoid that at the end of our political term, we have to conclude that we did not manage to restore the rule of law at our borders and that instead we have only turned it into worse. we still have a chance, but we really do not have time to lose.
mr president, it is awful to conclude, but we must admit that the eu member states are not committed to the western balkan region. their permissive conclusions of the summit last week made that again painfully clear. the refusal to keep their promise towards countries making progress towards the eu accession criteria has a devastating impact. it hurts their economy, young people leave, russia, china and turkey fill the gap that the eu leaves and tensions rise in the whole region. and some tensions are related to resistance against reforms. and we see a big crisis now in bosnia—herzegovina with the potential to escalate into another civil war. a vote is scheduled in the republika srpska (rs) assembly to withdraw from the federal infrastructure of bosnia—herzegovina. yesterday, they already took the first step with the rs medical agency. these decisions directly threaten the stability and peace in the region. it will blow up the dayton agreement and throw the country back in time, far from the path towards succession. and i wonder, do the high representative and the commission realise the urgency of this threat? the joint declaration of mr borrell and mr blinken called upon all parties to respect and protect state institutions. why not a clear call upon mr dodik, who is playing with fire at the moment? we urge you to do everything you can to prevent these votes and also to show the consequences of the adoption of the votes beforehand, because the members of the rs assembly must realise the impact of their decision before they take it. and we need to be reassured that the eu has prepared an adequate response. so, bring this crisis to the highest level of the commission and discuss it in the eu council tomorrow. at the same time, we must keep our promise, start the negotiations talk with north macedonia and albania, make unambiguously clear that both countries already meet the criteria. bilateral disputes are no justified reason to obstruct the start. i hope that the high representative will affirm this very clearly, and i urge the bulgarian government to lift the veto as soon as possible. opening negotiations and granting visa liberalisation to kosovo is not only deserved but necessary to regain the trust of their citizens and to reassure the people in the whole region that we generally welcome their european aspirations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, every day mr lukashenko proves that he should not be in power: he has lost the elections, he brutally oppresses the legitimate winners and he violates their human rights on a large scale. and now he targets the eu by misleading and abusing innocent migrants. two weeks ago, i visited russia and the lithuanian border to assess the alarming situation at the border. as you know, ten people have already died and many fear more victims to come. yet we see that governments from both sides leave those people to die. we should strongly condemn and sanction lukashenko’s ruthless behaviour. but we cannot, and should not, respond in the same way as this dictator does. our rule of law, our values, should not fail this test. this geopolitical crisis cannot be solved with pushbacks because that is creating a humanitarian crisis, and accepting these pushbacks would send a fatal signal to other countries, allowing them to do exactly the same. that would be the end of our asylum law, our fundamental rights and values. so let us stay united in our approach to lukashenko: strong and swift sanctions, support belarusian society and stop new arrivals of innocent migrants. but let us also unite in defending and implementing our own laws. let’s support poland and lithuania in organising decent reception conditions and access to aid and a proper asylum procedure. demand, but also enforce, if necessary, a lawful approach and be ready for relocation. finally, we just paid respect to the high commissioner of the unhcr, mr grandi. he urged for leadership from the eu. can the high representative confirm it will not fund walls and fences like president michel just announced, but instead step up and show real global responsibility?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. oh, my god, i wonder where we are. and yes, of course, it's true that lukashenko is a ruthless abuser of refugees. he doesn't care about them any more than he cares about the belarusian opposition he brutally threw in jail. but that is precisely why it is not acceptable for the polish government, with the embarrassing support of the commission and the council, to use war rhetoric and to refer to refugees as a weapon. that you actually do that, what is that, what is that evil nationalism? the european union is not the only one that has to deal with this problem. shame on you! when you put 12 to 15 000 highly armed border guards against 4 000 refugees, you have to think about what is really going on here. it was a polish mayor who spoke of dozens of dead in the woods. and i am grateful, especially to the polish ngos, who are now helping refugees, who have nothing to lose but their lives. all parties involved must stop abusing the plight of refugees. and, mr borrell, i say quite frankly, you must ensure that aid agencies have access to the refugees. and that poland is processing asylum applications under eu law is also the point. i'll tell you one more thing as an east german: the solution is not barbed wire, but justice and human dignity, and this is what we must uphold as the eu.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems. i condemn the use of migration as a threat by belarus and assure poland of our full solidarity. it is time for the european commission to do more than just speak, but to do it now, with the active support and funding of border protection. there's another crisis, another migration and security crisis, this time on the polish-belarusian border. this confirms our position, which we have been voicing for years, that the protection of our external borders must finally become a priority. migrants should not be divided up, migration should not be managed through agencies, but mass illegal migration should be stopped at the external borders. hungary has shown that it is possible. the establishment of border barriers at the eu's external borders has not received any support from the eu budget, although this border protection should finally be recognised as an undeniable expression of european solidarity. it is time for the commission to do the same and provide rapid financial support for the efforts of the member states concerned. enough of the words, no time for technical arguments. it's the only way to preserve our already fragile security stability.
madam president, the humanitarian crisis we are facing is different and more serious: different because lukashenka is pushing migrants against our borders with the intention of turning them into weapons of hybrid warfare and more serious because putin is behind lukashenka. lukashenka is just the puppet, there is nothing happening between belarus and us that russia does not want to happen. the truth is that putin with one hand gives us gas and with the other hand pushes migrants against our borders in a clear strategy to divide us. the worst thing is that we are facing an escalation of tension that cannot be de-escalated because we have no dialogue with lukashenka and therefore we can only de-escalate this tension if we negotiate with russia. lukashenka has decided to become our hybrid enemy, but they are not hybrids, they are real, the thousands and thousands of people who will die of cold at the border: with them lukashenka behaves like a criminal. we must show solidarity with poland, latvia and lithuania, we must increase sanctions and, above all, we must take care of refugees and migrants: we must show how human we europeans are. believe me, there is no such thing as a hybrid peace: peace is peace, or it is nothing. this time it is not just about the freedom of migrants, it is also about our freedom.
illegally, in violation of international law and cynically lying, a. lukashenko has created a state system of trafficking in migrants. the eu is offering fraudulent third-country nationals a very expensive ticket to the future, to greater freedom. the international criminal scheme, which is run by the belarusian state institutions, is an example of 21st century human exploitation. these actions aim to create a hybrid system of pressure from neighbouring states and to initiate a multifaceted internal crisis in those states. the european union's usual sanctions are no longer sufficient to stop the criminal actions of the lukashenka regime, although they are effective. the lukashenka regime must be disconnected from the western banking system. this should be a red line to stop lukashenka's crime machine. thank you for your attention.
president. - the situation on the belarusian border is deplorable. we should be grateful to poland and lithuania for continuing to fight the ongoing hybrid attack on the belarusian regime on the eu's external border. the flow of migrants organized by lukashenko is criminal. turkey and morocco have also recently resorted to these barbaric methods. the eu should provide financial assistance to poland and lithuania for the construction of a permanent fence. the external borders of the eu must be hermetically sealed. why is the european commission refusing to facilitate financially the construction of a physical barrier on the eu's external border, as requested by many countries and citizens? we all know that under the current rules it is virtually impossible to remove rejected asylum seekers from the eu once they are in. i would also like to mention the refugee convention. we are seeing more and more illegal migration being used as a weapon to disrupt our society. it is therefore high time to revise the refugee convention. anyone who illegally enters the eu should be blacklisted and never be eligible to apply for asylum again.
mr president, the abuse of vulnerable migrants by belarus is a most cynical and hostile act of hybrid warfare that requires the full scope of the eu’s powers to put a halt to it. the eu should warn the migrants falling into lukashenko’s trap. we should tell facebook and other social media platforms to stop facilitating this human smuggling and take down all the instruction videos explaining how to take the so-called minsk route. as a bloc, we have to tell lukashenko to back down. if he doesn’t, the eu has to consider all options available: eu-wide trade boycott, sanction belavia, including secondary sanctions, but even exclusion from european and american payment systems. we fully support our eu member states during this unprecedented attack. but let me also be clear: the border of poland, the eastern border, is also a european border; this calls for the involvement of the european union and especially frontex. we will not bow to this dictator, lukashenko. we need to isolate him.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, last week we visited the us, where we met with our counterparts in the us congress, with high officials in executive branches and with european as well as american businesses. it was great to see the trade and technology council (ttc) being embraced in such a great way, in a bipartisan way. if i didn’t know any better, i would have thought that it was an american idea to begin with, which is great. a new transatlantic initiative that will allow us to work on the challenges we are faced with today. i look forward to strong cooperation on setting new digital standards on foreign direct investment (fdi) screening, on fighting unfair competition coming from non—market economies, to name a few. but let’s not forget that the same people who are shaking hands over the ttc now are also the ones in charge of negotiating the trade irritants and challenges that are still hanging over our heads, even if they may be suspended for two or five years. of course, we know our interests will never fully coincide, but let’s use this momentum of the ttc and stop fighting each other with unnecessary or illegal tariffs and join forces on working together on global trade challenges. so now we have to get beyond words and actually come to concrete and tangible deliverables. this would be my most important question to the commissioners here this morning: what do you see as a concrete deliverable in the very near future? i look forward to your answer.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the reign of widespread dumping and the destruction of frontiers in europe, the european union is now concerned with the protection of mobile workers with the introduction of a european social security card. it is a curious paradox that this proliferation of digital traceability tools grouped together under the name of "pass" "carbon pass", "health pass", "social security pass", etc. while our borders are open to all and we would hardly know the number of illegal immigrants entering and passing through our territories, the eu is busy controlling, supervising and, i would even say, scrutinizing our citizens. we should think of viable solutions which would enable people to find work among their own people and which would not lead to the nomadicisation of workers but to relocations. but the eu prefers to detach workers from their homeland, their family, their roots. living and working in the country: this is the real challenge of tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the subject we are discussing tonight is not entirely new. the project was already mentioned by jean-claude juncker in his 2017 state of the union address. it's the highest railroad that we're taking a step forward. because as occupational biographies become more and more european, we must also contribute to how social security can keep pace. this project offers a lot of opportunities on the one hand, more transparency for workers and companies, on the other hand, effective fight against abuse. but what is even more important to me is that we see in the actual implementation of projects like rina, dear nicolas, that the devil is in the details in many places and it is not enough to just push things. i hope that the commission will accompany them to the end so that they can be a success.
mr. president, i have to ask you... without the establishment of a common it system, the idea of a digital tb card is not feasible. hungary is one of the seven member states that have already successfully achieved this technical compliance. however, only seven of the eu27 have yet to do so. so the question arises how to have a common eu tb number without a common it system. could the idea be a tool against social dumping, which is wrongly assumed to be directed against the central and eastern european member states? it is essential that the european commission focuses on protecting the free movement of persons and does a thorough, fact-based impact assessment, rather than creating a situation that makes the eastern member states' circumstances more difficult, because it has not done this homework before.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for the very strong support you have given to the commission. but i also heard the call you made to him, a call to action. i say to you: the commission wants to act. the commissioner wants to act. but we cannot do it alone. we have to act with the member states and therefore a process is needed, indeed, with the member states. we have given a few examples, such as the rina project, which is not the best example of what member states have done and where they have done their duty to actually put in place sufficiently effective systems. there is broad agreement among us that mobility must be fair and equitable, that it must avoid any form of abuse, fraud or social dumping. i think we really need to find the right instruments. there has been a lot of talk about the european social security number. i think maybe it was going a little too fast, too far. we must look for practical solutions that work and work quickly, because even with a european social security number we have not solved the problem. the systems still need to be coordinated and interconnected if a european number is to make sense and deliver results. i believe that the solution we have chosen now, which is a first step and which is part of the overall system we want to put in place, particularly in the future, for the benefit of european citizens, while respecting their rights, and also their right to protection, including the protection of their data, is a good approach. i have made a commitment that 2023 is the deadline and i will do my best and a little bit my impossible to speed up this process, because i believe that the citizens, the millions of citizens on the move, are asking us for it and they have an absolute right to it.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday and the final vote on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. in order to improve the mobility of workers, to combat fraud and to simplify administrative initiatives, the commission was invited to submit proposals for a european social security number back in 2014, but this issue has been neglected so far. we therefore welcome the commission's initiative to finally present a pilot project which we hope will lead to the creation of an effective digital social security system, ensuring better coordination between member states. the digital system is important for citizens and workers exercising the right of free movement and facing many paper-based procedures. for example, by proving that they are covered by social security in their member state of origin. this will help in particular seasonal workers working and living in different member states and will make it easier to control and reduce wage dumping, which must not remain.
in writing. free movement is a cornerstone of european cooperation and the european internal market, and has contributed to growth and prosperity for decades. this basic value is particularly important for the large number of hungarian citizens working and studying abroad. our fellow citizens have hitherto had to face not infrequently complex administrative procedures when moving within the union, when moving for work or study, when retiring and when establishing their entitlement to social and family benefits, when proving their social security status. in this context, i welcome the european commission's proposal to introduce digital social security cards by 2023, which will make it easier for citizens to access digital public services and increase the efficiency of the public sector. this proposal will make life easier for those who take advantage of the freedom of movement within the eu to work or study abroad. the introduction of the digital social security card brings me one step closer to the social and market integration that will make the lives of many hungarians easier: the vision of a united states of europe, which i, as a politician of the democratic coalition, support with full conviction.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the coordination of member states' measures in the light of the increasing number of covid 19 cases in the eu [2021/2984 ((rsp)). i would remind members that in all debates at this part-session there will be no 'catch the eye' procedures or 'blue card' questions. in addition, as in recent sessions, remote interventions are planned from the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also like to remind you that speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the central platform, except for spontaneous requests for the floor, blue cards and points of order. i therefore invite members to follow the list of speakers and to approach the rostrum when their time to speak is imminent.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start first of all by sharing with you that what we are seeing over the last few weeks is a worryingly rapid increase of the number of covid-19 cases across europe. we all know, and we all can see, that europe is now in the middle of yet another wave, and this is clearly of very serious concern to us all. i want to take this opportunity to thank this house for this timely discussion. but i would like to start by sending a very clear message on the role of vaccines, because the evidence is clear. vaccination works and remains the most effective tool we have to keep people safe. there is no doubt that they are effective against severe disease and hospitalisation, and protect against loss of life. even with the dominant delta variant, with its increased transmissibility and severity, deaths continue to be prevented due to the effective vaccines authorised for use in the eu, and this is all backed by scientific evidence. numerous people across the eu, young and old, would have been in a much worse-off situation had it not been for the record roll-out of vaccination programmes against covid-19. but now we are facing a pandemic mainly driven by the unvaccinated. the rising numbers are, unfortunately, fuelling vaccine hesitancy, and we all need to take a firm stand against this. all of you, the honourable members of this parliament, can play a crucial role in this effort. vaccination continues to be the key weapon in our armoury, but at the same time, until sufficient vaccination high rates have been reached and the situation is under control, it is important that non-pharmaceutical interventions remain in place where needed. we have already reached out to all those countries most severely affected, which are also the lowest with the vaccine uptake. we’re offering direct support, together with ecdc, to help them combat misinformation and boost vaccine uptake. we welcome your help and collaboration in all those countries. we’re also providing urgent support through the union civil protection mechanism for those most under pressure. many member states have started to reintroduce certain restrictive measures, relying often on the eu digital covid certificate, to allow safe access to public areas. the use of the certificate is, i would dare to say, a success story, not only because it has allowed us to travel and interact again, to reopen the european union and to restart our economies, but more than that, the eu digital covid certificate has been the meeting point at which member states and the commission have collaborated and delivered the largest interoperable digital covid certificate system in the world. we need to avoid fragmentation, and for this, strong coordination is key. that is why we are currently preparing an update of the council recommendations related to free movement within the eu. the proposal to be adopted this week will promote and acknowledge the important role of the eu digital covid certificate that travellers nowadays carry, and we will also update the recommendation on travel into the eu from around the world. honourable members, close collaboration and coordination are absolutely essential – and these are not just words. we know this, at every step of this journey. we have been making our utmost efforts since the beginning of this pandemic. we cannot impose coordination in an area where the competence lies with member states. in the area of health, it takes not only two to be able to coordinate together, but 27. in the context of the european health union, we have proposed a stronger health security committee, a body which has played a crucial role in the pandemic – but we need to strengthen it. we need rapid agreement on the proposals towards the european health union, and i am very glad that the negotiations on a new regulation on cross-border health threats started last week. we have expectations which are high for this regulation, so let’s ensure our ambition remains intact throughout the negotiations, because together we can ensure that the eu is better prepared for the future, and setting up hera has this in mind. hera now manages all joint procurements on therapeutics and is working with companies and countries participating already in the joint procurement agreement to ensure access to promising therapeutics. let me finish by stressing an important point. i would have wished that we were standing here today and i was addressing you and not speaking again about the difficult situation that most member states find themselves in. but we are in this situation and we need to deal with it, and we need to be proactive to coordinating and supporting a member state’s response in every single area, from emergency relief to free movement. we need a strong centre of disease prevention and control, a strong hera, a strong ema. but we need this within a strong european health union, and this is the only way, by reaching political agreement on our proposals, that we will be able to move forward as soon as possible. this is the only way that we are going to be able to build a union that is better prepared, more resilient and more responsive in the face of future crises.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it looks like the more numbers go up in member states, the more they go in different directions when it comes to the measures that they take. and let’s be honest, the covid pass that went through this parliament in rapid speed was a success story. it allowed us at the time to use our freedom of movement whenever it was medically possible. but we’ve reached the stage now where we indeed need more guidance – not only when it comes to travel within the eu and travel to the eu from outside, but i would also like to say about the validity and the length of use of vaccinations and the use of booster vaccines. i would like the commission maybe to react to that because it seems that this is where we mostly need guidance at the moment. but let’s be honest, the reason we’re in this situation is because we have too many unvaccinated. you will all get, in your email boxes, emails about black friday – and this is an american commercial event enticing us to buy more stuff online. it’s this friday. but what the healthcare systems in our member states are dealing with at the moment is a potential code black and to show you what code black is, let me just mention one of the emails that i got from a nurse somewhere in europe. she said ‘i now have double the amount of covid patients in my hospital than i should officially have and i cannot outplace them anywhere because all the other hospitals are full’. when we get to code black in our health systems, it means that doctors and nurses have to choose between patient a or patient b when it comes to giving them a place in intensive care. and this is what we need to avoid. a year ago, in this house, we were having a debate about whether we would have enough vaccines. now we have them. let’s use them and let’s share them, so that yes we can have a black friday if you wish, but we avoid a code black in our health systems.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this surge in covid-19 cases, it is essential that we pool all our efforts to achieve better coordination within the member states of the european union. it is important that we establish common and well-thought-out measures. as the european council of 21 and 22 october last noted, vaccination campaigns across europe have made remarkable progress. but we need to step up efforts to overcome vaccine mistrust, including by fighting misinformation. if vaccination is an effective way to fight the pandemic, it should not be made compulsory. getting vaccinated should be done with conviction. i am therefore shocked by the coercive measures taken by austria. by making vaccination compulsory from next february, the austrian state is only increasing the social tensions that are already present in its territory and that risk dividing society. some 35,000 protesters in vienna this weekend demonstrated this. riots also broke out in the netherlands and belgium, where protesters were protesting against health restrictions and the government's plan to restrict access to certain facilities for unvaccinated people. vaccination should be a smart and thoughtful choice. building trust requires individual freedom and the absence of coercion. these radical measures only increase the mistrust of vaccines among a part of the population. so let us be consistent and clear in our communication in order to persuade and not to force.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, with vaccination we were promised immunity. that's why we've had mass vaccinations. but unfortunately, the virus has not been defeated. and you, commissioner, just said that that's the fault of the unvaccinated, but that's also disinformation. vaccines are helpful. - that's right. - what? but we now know that vaccinated people are also contagious and can end up in the hospital over time, because protection diminishes after a few months. the coronavirus vaccine has failed. no less contamination, but a lot of false security. the only thing that the corona crisis has brought about is discrimination, exclusion and a complete division of our society. more of the same is pointless. i would therefore also like to call on the commission and the member states not to extend the temporary corona-pases. the virus is here and it's here to stay. we have to live with it. the member states must scale up health care and provide information and medicines. anyone can be vaccinated now. and get boosters for the people who want them. but stop excluding civilians and certainly don't make vaccination mandatory. give the people their lives back.
the energy transition is essentially a material transition from fossil fuels to raw materials essential for the production of solar panels, wind turbines and batteries, but also for the production of hydrogen and raw materials which are now often found in many other products. we're going to need a lot more raw materials, because it's simple: without solar panels, without wind turbines, without hydrogen, our energy transition is in jeopardy. the scarcity of critical raw materials must not stand in the way of our european strategic plans, such as the european green deal or the digital transition. i think it is right that we, as the european parliament, are presenting this own-initiative report today as a starting point for better management of this problem. we must think about creating an eu standard on the extraction of raw materials. this is not just about standards for the sustainable extraction of raw materials, but also about social standards. and all this in good consultation with the local people and authorities. we should not rely solely on extractive activities outside the eu and ignore the circumstances in which they take place. our standards must also apply outside the eu. we must of course make more efficient use of the resources we have and encourage this use: reuse, promote reuse and create a market for reuse. because extracting raw materials causes more carbon emissions than recycling, and by using raw materials smartly, we can reduce our carbon footprint. circularity is important, but it also requires us to think about product design. we also need to get a better picture of where in the economy these resources are located in order to recover them. we need to keep a better eye on that because it's important. we must do this together and i am glad that the rapporteur has taken up my point. finally, we need to focus on innovation and research to find alternatives to certain critical raw materials, because this will reduce the pressure on these materials and achieve a better balance between supply and demand. mr president, we have a lot of work to do. it is the last time we shall discuss this subject here. i think this own-initiative report is a wonderful starting point for the commission to follow.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, europe will soon be spending unprecedented amounts on its recovery from covid. i am pleased that it will do that and that it will make a common historical effort to invest in things such as tackling the climate crisis and fighting social inequality. but as the only directly—elected european institution, it’s vital that parliament can scrutinise recovery plans and, importantly, see to it that no money is disbursed to countries in which conflicts of interest are rife, human rights are undermined, ngos are being threatened and the judiciary is being put on a leash. respect for the rule of law is a precondition for the disbursement of any eu funds, and we need to make sure to firmly enshrine that. we expect a proposal from the european commission that does justice to our shared european values, and that allows the european parliament to play the oversight role that european citizens expect from it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur on her excellent report. there's so much in there, dear dolors montserrat, you could go on and on. i think it's great that the report is written from the patient's point of view, that patient organisations are involved, that the european health data space is an issue so there's a lot to talk about. i want to focus on the good news and the bad news. i'll start with the bad news. many colleagues have said that we are dependent on the global production of medicines in other regions of the world. but the good news is that i believe that with a successful and good pharmaceutical strategy, we can do something about it. we can take a different approach. i think our motto has to be, diversify, support, protect. we need to diversify our supply chains. firstly, we should be careful not to buy critical medicines from just one or a few producers, but we must produce or stockpile more of them ourselves in europe. secondly, we must take care of small and mediumsized enterprises. they are our innovation engines, and they need guidance. they need a little bit of red tape, but they need support, especially when it comes to funding clinical trials. last but not least, patents for medicines are essential. they provide incentives for companies to pursue ambitious research and development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's environmental policy is not being implemented.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i want to thank everyone for the really very important discussion. many of you have already covered many key aspects of the pharmaceutical strategy for europe, and i want, at the outset, to say how much i appreciate, in the large part, your support for the strategy’s objectives and ambition. i am truly convinced that this strategy will improve patients’ access to medicines and facilitate innovation within the eu. ms regimenti, you mentioned innovation. we will be adopting our framework to better promote progress and new possibilities. ms weiss, on intellectual property (ip), in the context of this strategy, we are taking a close look at how to further optimise intellectual property incentives to boost innovation, address unmet needs and ensure at the same time market entry and continuous supply. i want to touch on two points that were raised by ms véronique trillet-lenoir and ms moretti, both of whom mentioned the fact that we need to find the right balance between incentives for innovation and the need for access to affordable medicines, and to say that an impact assessment will be carried out for major changes to the legislative framework, which will inform the policy changes to strike the right balance. with this strategy, we will further support the public—private partnership programmes to boost research. ms moretti, i’m going to quote you because you said that this is a report we can be proud of, and that we need to look at patients’ dignity. these really are key elements to the centre of this report. you mentioned a true european union of health. ms metz, we will propose to reform our pharmaceutical legislation to ensure the environmental sustainability of the manufacturing process and to strengthen environmental risk assessment requirements. i think it was ms kopcińska who raised the issue of biosimilars and generics, and i think that this is a very important question since generic and biosimilar medicines can provide patients with accessible and affordable treatments. we envisage to reform the pharmaceutical legislation to better promote competition with such products and remove barriers that delay their timely entry to market, allowing for lower prices and hence improving affordability and access to medicines. i cannot fail to pick up that i heard some points being raised on points that i had answered in a previous debate here earlier in the afternoon, discussing – or rather disputing – the science and effectiveness of vaccines, and i’m just going to repeat what i said in an earlier debate. the science speaks of the effectiveness of vaccines. they are safe and effective, they protect against loss of life and serious disease, and this is the science that we are basing our strategy on, and on which the european centre for disease prevention (ecdc) will also be publishing its latest risk assessment. ms glavak, yes, we will look at the challenges raised. mr luena, you raised a point on the orphan medicinal products regulation, and i think that this is important because the evaluation of the legislation of medicines for rare diseases in children showed that both legislative instruments have stimulated research and the development of medicines, but that there are also a number of shortcomings. we will be addressing these within the strategy and, with industry, will be looking at the way that we can build across to address the weaknesses that we have seen. many of you have raised the importance of innovation and the success of recent months in reaching safe and effective vaccines and that we can do more, and this is our point. i think it was ms paulus who raised the importance of the level playing field. i think that this is extremely important in terms of strengthening our cooperation with our international partners to ensure the environmental sustainability of active pharmaceutical ingredients imported from non—eu countries. yes, we have taken on board much of what we are learning, and have learnt, from the covid—19 pandemic, and we have already made some adaptations to our framework, for example by facilitating the way we approve future variant vaccines through post—authorisation changes. as part of the pharmaceutical strategy, we are assessing how these flexibilities can be used in the future, and we will of course make necessary changes in the system where required. mr kympouropoulos, i listened to you very carefully. yes, we need to create – and that’s what we’re working towards, dear stelios – a common framework, and this is exactly what we aim to do. there were some points raised on where we are now with the pandemic. i will not go back to the discussion, but what i can say is that we are convinced that the eu strategy that we have followed, in terms of safe and effective vaccines available for all citizens of the european union with equity, has proven to be a success. last, but not least, mr olekas, on the joint procurement of medicines: yes, it’s proved its importance and it’s proved its strength. we’re already using this in the european therapeutics strategy, and many of you mentioned cancer. just to let you know that europe’s beating cancer plan is in motion and already has many of the actions that we had aimed for being put in place. ms niebler, sound pharmaceutical strategy, diversification and support were your words. yes, we can do this if we work together. finally, there was so much to answer and i’m not sure i covered everything, but i just want to close with a word of thanks to ms dolors montserrat and all the rapporteurs, and to just say that access to medicines is my key priority as health and food safety commissioner. there should be no first and second—class patients in the european union. everyone in the european union should have access to the same treatments. the inequalities that we see are simply not acceptable. i am not saying that this is going to be easy and i’m not saying that we’re not going to meet challenges, but i am saying that we need to see change. i am also saying that we can all work together, with the member states and with everyone in this parliament, and really deliver no more and no less than what european citizens and patients expect from us.
thank you very much for your very important words and thank you for referring to all the meps who have addressed this very important topic, and congratulations to the rapporteur. with this i am closing the debate.
i'll close this discussion. the amendments will be voted on tomorrow, and the final vote will be on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is: the president shall be assisted by a judge.
mr president, religious freedom is increasing worldwide. so it was also a wise decision by the juncker commission to appoint ján figel as special envoy for religious freedom worldwide in 2016. figel has done his job with great passion and excellence. it was therefore also obvious that a new envoy would be appointed when the commission-von der leyen took office in december 2019, but unfortunately nothing happened. the intergroup working group of the european parliament on freedom of religion or belief, among others, insisted on a new appointment, but it was not until a year and a half later that mr stylianides was appointed. however, to the surprise of many, he left after a few months, and now we are again waiting for a special envoy. it is a pity that it has not yet been, for the need is great worldwide. i would therefore ask mrs von der leyen to make this appointment a matter of priority, so that a new envoy is appointed on 1 january.
i do not think it is bad faith that the european parliament has no leave arrangements. i think it simply did not occur to our european ancestors that a representative of the people could also be a young woman or a young man who would like to be with a newborn child. i myself have travelled to strasbourg this time with my three-and-a-half-month-old son, and i have done so because i feel it is important that the people who voted for me are also represented during this period. but all young parents, or perhaps all parents, will know that such a journey is a tremendous undertaking. which brings me to my point. it should be possible to replace a member of the european parliament or to temporarily transfer his or her voting rights. i have made several proposals for the adaptation of the european electoral law and the rules of procedure here, and each time i have received broad support for this in the european parliament, and yet there is no such leave system. so here again is my call in simplified form: it is time to bring the european parliament into the 21st century!
madam president, i wanted to speak on the huge increase in the number of people being arbitrarily detained in libya since the beginning of october, described by the un as potentially a crime against humanity. however, this evening, the guardian newspaper reports that at least 75 people are feared drowned off the coast of libya in one of the most shocking incidents so far in the mediterranean. we must carry our share of blame for this latest tragedy. instead of a migration and asylum framework across the eu, we have externalised our migration policy, causing harmful consequences. the consequences are being washed up on the shores of libya in their hundreds. the consequences are huddled in freezing conditions on the border with belarus under barbed wire. they are seen in a completely inappropriate aid policy that links funding to controlling migration and that submits to the right—wing mythology that migration can be stopped and should be stopped. these, madam president, are the natural but avoidable consequences of trying to externalise migration policy and we should hang our heads in shame.
madam president, it is disconcerting that an institution which should set an example, such as the european parliament, which claims to fight for women's rights and which, in turn, is supposed to claim that we have an influence in the world of politics, forces us, days before giving birth, to have a physical presence to intervene and vote, something impossible given that we have to travel. i am sorry that a situation as natural as motherhood is not being resolved in this house and that we are prevented from exercising our political responsibility to represent those who have placed their trust in us. there are votes where one vote is decisive. during the pandemic, the solution of online participation has been found. so much talk about digitisation and it turns out that there is no intention to continue using this technology in such justified situations as the birth of a baby. it is really crying out to heaven that we should pray for this incoherence to be put right.
madam president, the reactionary design of the european union is based on high wages and permanent mobility from one country to another, which the commission and governments are provocatively calling 'legitimate'. the transfer of non-existent social security rights from country to country is intended to facilitate the transnational gambling of employees' contributions in order to reward green and digital large groups from their own guaranteed capital shortfall. in greece, with the privatisation of the subsidiary pensions of the new democracy, following the abortion of katrougalos by syriza, the state and the employer are exempted, while the insured person only knows what contributions he will give, but never how much pension he will receive. the only facts are the increase in the retirement age, the dramatic reduction in pensions and the late payments not paid with the christmas tip-fifty-dollar, which even for a joke does not cover energy accuracy, the price increases in consumer goods and the explosion of rents. workers, by organizing and fighting, demand the scrapping of all anti-working, anti-insurance laws for pension increases and the return of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions.
madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, during the pandemic, we have all moved more and more into the online space, which is a space that reduces costs, removes many barriers for us, creates new opportunities, but it brings certain threats, and that threat is, for example, the safety of our children. we cannot tolerate violence against children online, and i'm glad that there's a lot of discussion about this. i recently organized one myself, and it showed that, for example, the number of children who have experienced bullying went up from 6 percent to 26 percent year over year, or the number of children who have experienced sexual content went up from 36 percent to 61 percent. these are alarming numbers, and online abuse is a really serious, sensitive topic. i think we all need to realize our share of responsibility to protect our children from him. the particular service providers must be aware of this responsibility. it's about creating an online space that's safe for everyone, and especially for our kids. it's also about tools to detect perpetrators and, just as important, to prevent them.
madam president, commissioner, i wish to speak to highlight the problems of citrus fruit in valencia, a sector of great importance for my community, for spain and for the european union. valencia is the main exporting region in the union, with a turnover of over eur 2 billion a year and employing 250 000 families. however, their competitiveness and profitability and, therefore, the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of people are threatened by the lack of reciprocity in phytosanitary requirements and by the inadequate implementation of certain trade agreements such as the one in south africa. the european union is not defending its citrus growers when it does not require cold treatment of imports from south africa to prevent the introduction of the false moth - one of the most feared pests among citrus growers - a treatment which is required by the united states and china and which the european food safety authority - as you are well aware, commissioner - strongly recommends for reasons of plant and environmental safety. nor is the european union defending its producers when it allows the distortive effects of the sharp increase in citrus imports at the beginning of the european season. i therefore call for the cold treatment of south african imports and for citrus fruit to be declared sensitive products, as is the case with the spanish government, the valencian government, the whole sector and, of course, this member of the european parliament.
i would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are still waiting for the new eu envoy for religious freedom, because we have de facto been waiting for two years for the vacancy. the four months that christos stylianides held this office are almost uncountable. those four months were more like a summer internship, during which he didn't even get to practice. president von der leyen wrote to me recently that she is giving her full attention to the reappointment of the eu envoy. i'm not sure i'm aware of the extent of the damage. the commission is capable of setting up a health service of hundreds of staff in a matter of weeks, but the appointment of a single eu envoy, that takes time and that takes time ... i would therefore urge the commission to: look around you, and see how religious persecution is increasing worldwide, come quickly with an eu envoy, really quickly, and provide substantial official support!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i think that today is a dark day for european climate policy, but also for environmental policy. but it is also a dark day for the farmers of europe. because nothing is going to change greatly. it continues as before: with new headlines, but without any real change in content. the point is not the eco-schemes; the point is that 75 percent of the money is still being paid out because people own land, and those who own a lot of land get the bulk of these agricultural payments. industrial companies will be happy, but so will mr orbán and mr babiš. the rewarding continues. the eco-schemes are the alleged core of the new agricultural reform. the main flaw is that they're voluntary for the farmers. who's gonna be in on it? what's on offer? probably just improved technology again, but no real change in the environment, not even in the environmental ambitions that the farmers have to develop. this is a bit like hans christian andersen's fairy tale the emperor's new clothes. no, the emperor is not actually wearing anything, but there are really only nice new stories being told here about an old agricultural policy. what annoys me most is that we have agreed here together on a green deal, a farm-to-fork strategy, ambitious biodiversity targets - none of this is found in the common agricultural policy. maybe someday, but not right now. and that is why, commissioner, if there is no new agricultural policy, the green deal will fail, and that is why we should really be working on it, but at least in two and a half years we should have the chance to do so again. the farmers are the winners of this agrarian reform? i'm not going to. farmers have suffered miserable prices for years. they were forced onto the world market at dumped prices. we are ruining the farmers in europe, and we are ruining them in countries of the global south. why have we lost half our farmers in the last 20 years under this agricultural policy? because this farm policy is wrong. if it continues as it is, there will be no hope for farmers, but there will be no hope for the environment either.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. they are the ones who, day in and day out, are taking care of our food supply and our countryside to the highest standards in the world. this requires a balanced policy where sustainability and commitment to competitive businesses go hand in hand. mr president, what is at stake is and remains a compromise, but a compromise that deserves support. it deserves support because we have been able to reduce the commission's unrealistic ambitions to realistic proportions. it deserves support because we have found a good balance between income support and targeted remuneration, see the eco-schemes. and it also deserves support because member states can now do more for young farmers. however, much will depend on the interpretation given by the member states. after all, they are given more freedom of choice. and that's good, because it allows them to take better account of local conditions. but it is important that we maintain a level playing field. this could be the case if, for example, member states make very different choices about the balance between the two pillars, or if member states put forward all sorts of additional national requirements. i therefore ask the commission to look at the economic effects as well as the environmental effects when it is examining the strategic plans. as far as farmer to consumer is concerned, we all know that no impact assessment has yet been carried out and that the targets have not yet been set in legislation. they cannot therefore be used as a benchmark for the assessment of the strategic plans. that would be very premature. i therefore urge the commission once again to respect the agreements on this matter. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peter jahr, for his enormous efforts and also thank the shadow rapporteurs for the whole pleasant cooperation on this dossier.
mr president, the illegal power that lukashenko uses affects all of us: the belarusian citizens suffering oppression, the eu, and specifically lithuania and poland, under attack, the migrants and refugees whose human dignity and fundamental rights are severely violated. it is a relief that eu and national diplomatic efforts have led to a reduction of the number of flights to minsk. the repatriation has ended physical suffering for some of them, though many are still traumatised and have huge problems in paying back their debts. but not everyone is able to depart. think of the syrian and afghan refugees and iraqi nationals who are still in need of protection. they cannot be contained at the border forever. they need access through an asylum procedure, and adequate protection now. the refugees did not start the crisis. lukashenko did. the eu’s response should focus on his regime instead of circumventing eu asylum law. the commissioner’s portfolio of the european way of life wouldn’t be worth much if he would allow pushbacks and walls to be the answer. the best way to discourage the instrumentalisation of people is a functioning asylum system and taking a fair share of responsibility for refugees. the biggest mistake would be to normalise and legalise pushbacks. that would mean that our commitment to the refugee convention of over 70 years does not stand the test of this temporary crisis. we as parliament should never let this happen.
madam president, global trade needs a fair and functioning world trade organization; however, the covid-19 pandemic is showing us that we are far from that goal. when countries knocked on the door to lift barriers to the trade of covid-19 vaccines, some wto members did not answer. we can now conclude that all wto members need to deliver. global challenges ask for global solutions, so therefore i urge the wto and the european commission to deliver upon a declaration on trade and health next week with concrete language on intellectual property and with an agreement on taking away trade barriers for the export of vaccines. we are confronted with the fourth covid-19 wave as we speak, and yet only 6% of people in africa are fully vaccinated, according to the who. this is about human rights and human lives. are we really doing everything to not be caught off guard again?
madam president, i am speaking to ask for the majority vote of this parliament on the resolution, so that our voice is powerful, so that it is heard clearly and so that the commission, mr dombrovskis, feels our support. with this resolution, parliament shows its strong support for multilateralism and calls on the commission and all wto members to achieve concrete results that strengthen fair, sustainable, rules-based international trade, capable of responding to the challenges of the 21st century. the resolution perfectly reflects our priorities: the fight against unsustainable subsidies to fisheries; a limited package on agriculture; a response to the pandemic, in which the social democrats support the inclusion of the temporary suspension of certain provisions of the patent agreement to improve global access to vaccines, addressing global limitations to production and shortages of supplies. a roadmap with an effective commitment to reform the organisation, including the unfair system of sanctions. the public needs answers and their representatives cannot fail. my colleague lange said, "there is no time to die". i add: "there is no room for failure".
the ministers' conference, mr president, is a good opportunity to give new impetus to the world trade organisation, including in the area of dispute settlement, because an open multilateral trading system with fair rules is in everyone's interest, and certainly in europe's interest. i shall confine myself to the fisheries and the debate on fisheries subsidies. international agreements on subsidies can certainly contribute to a global level playing field, such as in the fight against illegal fishing and overcapacity. but we cannot allow our fishermen to be ruined by questioning the support for fleet renewal. we must not throw the tax exemption on fuel into the wind either. that would be irresponsible with the high fuel prices now. in the short and medium term, we will still need fossil fuels, especially in the fisheries sector. the wto is very important to us, but so is the need for modern, profitable fishing.
madam president, having heard my colleagues here this evening, i think i can safely say that although we do not agree on everything, we do agree on the need to reform the wto. when the rules of the game do not fit the need of the players anymore, you do not start cheating or stop playing. no, you make new rules, and that is what we have to do as soon as possible. commissioner, you’ve heard so many wishes this evening, from an agreement on health, to fishing subsidies, to a better-functioning settlement system, so allow me to just add one more to our wish-list, and that is new rules for fair competition. last week, the eu, us and japan renewed their commitment to work on industrial subsidies. however, i believe we need to cooperate with all wto members on this, and this 12th ministerial conference could be a good starting point to address this. it is time to have the rules fit the need of the players again, and i urge ministers from across the world to work towards a consensus in order to build our trading system again so that it will ensure fair rules and becomes up to date with the pressing challenges we face today.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, 26 years ago the dayton peace agreement was signed ending a bloody and deadly war in bosnia herzegovina. it installed strong international oversight until the country develops into a fully functional and accountable democracy. and with many others, i regret that we still need this oversight. the country is in a political deadlock caused by corrupt ethno nationalistic politicians. dayton and this special supervision brings a huge international responsibility, responsibility to actively engage and protect the peace agreement and the constitution. and dayton is under heavy pressure today. milorad dodik is playing a dangerous game, directly challenging the territorial integrity, sovereignty and security of bosnia—herzegovina. we cannot accept this. i urge the eu ministers to impose sanctions against mr dodik and his enablers. i urge the eu and the whole international community not to compromise on the much-needed democratic reforms and to finally depart from the ethnic division lines. and we all know we will not get there in a deal with politicians interested in the status quo, but only through an inclusive and truly democratic process. please do this for the bosnian citizens.
mr president, i hear a lot of mixed reactions after the cop26 in glasgow, but personally, i’m a half-glass full person, maybe even a little bit more than a half-full and i think i’m not the only one. just after cop26, i read a very interesting interview with a prominent professor in climate science, also one of the lead authors of the ipcc reports, who said she was much impressed by the results of the cop26. to quote her, ‘i've been to many cops, but what i’ve seen in glasgow is unmatched.’ i believe she is right, because let’s look at the results – there’s an international alliance that commits to ending fossil fuels and the landmark words ‘we’re taking it to the final conclusion’ recognising the need for action on fossil fuels. there’s a methane pledge to significantly reduce methane emissions, essentially to slow down global warming. and there’s an international alliance to stop deforestation, even signed by brazil. but the most important accomplishment maybe is that for the first time ever, the world is recognising the importance of 1.5°c or keeping 1.5°c within reach. staying under 2°c is not enough. the paris rulebook is finished. article 6 is established. this sets up the much needed framework for an international carbon market. this creates an opportunity to collaborate on a global level and use the best available technologies, achieving the highest decrease in emissions in the most cost—effective way. all ingredients are on the table to keep 1.5°c within reach. however, we still need developed countries, banks and industry to take the responsibility and divert investments in the right direction. just a small anecdote, i was talking to the minister of the maldives and what she said really stuck with me – just imagine 85% of your neighbourhood, of your city or your village becoming uninhabitable. because that’s what countries like the maldives are facing if we don’t act. so we urgently need to update our nationally determined contributions. we have the momentum now. let’s work hard the coming year and we are on the right track. we need to take a big step in egypt. i think it will be a busy year and i wish us all the best.
mr president, after cop26 no one can claim great achievements. on the contrary, the traced path remains virtually unchanged. the reality is that concrete measures are urgently needed. the response is to insist on false solutions, insufficient mitigation measures or inadequate market-like measures. the interests of those who profit from the buying and selling of the right to pollute or other profitable business on this pretext remain untouched. capitalism is not green, it is not in capitalism that the answers needed and at the service of the people will be found. these cannot be exhausted in the strict environmental dimension. they call for a social dimension, recognition of the right of peoples to development, a variety of measures, the adoption of a regulatory approach aimed at effective emission reductions, the promotion of mobility policies based on public transport, public control of strategic sectors such as energy, the encouragement of local production and consumption, the right of each country to its food sovereignty, fair regulation of world trade, the rejection of militarism and the defence of peace.
mr president, the european union, governments and ngos have sown massive illusions that something positive for people and the environment could come out of cop26. the dispute over the height of its goals is the other side of the fierce competition between the united states and china for primacy. a war of interests that calls the bombings of the united states, the european union and nato, which kill people and destroy the environment, 'green', that declares nuclear tests, the incineration of waste and the sole cultivation of renewable resources 'green'. the green transition and the liberalisation of energy leave people exposed to energy precision, green fees and price increases. cost-benefit ratio. that's how people stay unarmed. individual responsibility is laid upon them, while public property, forests and the natural environment are destroyed by floods, fires and earthquakes. green for you is what's in the best interest of the business community. climate change is being used as a pretext to exonerate the big culprit: the capitalist system. only the people, in conflict with corporate interests, with workers' power and a socialised economy, can save the people, the environment and the planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what more can we europeans do? i say that fighting global warming is fighting social cooling. we have the example of large industries, including european ones, which are virtuous in rich countries, while they dump poisons in poor countries. and i am not just referring to africa or latin america, but also to the poorest areas of our continent, where the oil industry, for example, has a licence to pollute the water that citizens drink, and where the steel industry, for example, has a licence to pollute the air that citizens breathe. poverty is the precondition for accepting the unacceptable, with the not-to-be-neglected peculiarity that polluting emissions, just like a virus for a pandemic, know no borders. so it is not enough to tighten up the laws in rich countries, we must also prevent industry from moving its production to poor countries.
president, vice-president timmermans, minister, dear colleagues, cop26 was public-private cooperation at its worst. the outcome of the glasgow climate summit is a billionaire party for bankers and investors who were glad that people had forgotten about the recent corruption allegations related to the un green climate fund. our manufacturing industry, which supports millions of jobs and prosperity, will follow royal dutch shell's lead and leave the european union. carbon leakage, companies running away from overly ambitious climate policies. earlier i called the climate plans an irresponsible experiment with our economy. eu citizens, who have to pay the astronomical price of cop26, did not have a vote in the climate pact. democracy was once again set aside. green finance is not a climate change issue. the carbon problem will shift, but it will not be solved by bankers and investors. in fact, the financial flows that are created are uncontrollable and prone to fraud. ladies and gentlemen, the sad result of cop26 is that only the bankers will win, while manufacturing companies are being driven out, citizens are being impoverished and the climate is not benefitting. europe deserves better than that.
mr president, protecting the environment for future generations is one of the key challenges ahead of us. the most challenging task will be to find ways to protect the environment in a way that will boost our economy, employment and social care. the environmental agenda is stronger every day and i believe that the organisation of the glasgow summit is really a success of our european policy. this is the most important message. there are also three good messages, in my view. the first one is that the glasgow agreement has been signed by 151 countries. the second one is that countries also agreed to a robust process to develop a new and larger climate finance goal to come into effect after 2025. thirdly, finance. there is a significant milestone to address this issue. the adaptation fund reached an unprecedented level of contributions, with new pledges for usd 356 million that represent almost three times its mobilisation targets for 2022. on the other hand, there are very high expectations and there are still challenges remaining. the first one is coal. many countries will phase out coal by 2030, but the world’s largest users of the fuel, like china, india and the united states of america, will not do so. secondly, transportation. better investment for sustainable transport modes was not forced in glasgow. there is still a lack of focus on public transport and cycling. thirdly, fossil fuels. the subsidisation of fossil fuels, the largest source of global greenhouse gas emissions, was opposed by several countries with large fossil-fuel based economic sectors. glasgow clearly showed that the democratic world is trying to address and solve the issues, while the non-democratic one is still waiting. we can really be leaders and represent the green transformation for the rest of the world.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, it is hardly necessary to say that the agreement reached in glasgow is far from what is needed. there is a gap between the agreement and the expectations, the demands of european citizens and the citizens of the world; a gap between agreement and science; the eu is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the eu's external relations. of course, europe is doing better than the rest of the world. but for 20 years, 25 years, we have been saying that europe is doing better than the rest of the world, and that is enough. well, no, that's not enough. of course, europe has not played a leading role, including in the end of fossil fuel subsidies. how could europe do that, with what it voted on the cap yesterday, a cap of climate change? and how could europe do that, when it is so divided on taxonomy? i have never seen five environment ministers denouncing france, poland and other european countries at a cop. i have never seen europe so divided and europe held hostage by nuclear and gas. so it is time for the commission and the council and parliament to do their job. it is not the nuclear and gas lobby that should dictate europe's climate ambition.
mr president, now that the dust has settled on cop26, we take stock today. i shall confine myself to three comments. firstly, it is a good thing that we as the eu want to be in the lead, but if we go too far ahead of the troops, we will be competing with ourselves out of the market. second, the eu cannot do this alone. countries with high-polluting industries, such as china and india, should also contribute. global cooperation is crucial to this. the fact that we are now going to apply the emissions trading system globally is an important step in that direction. three, phasing out fossil fuels is needed. that is the transition we are in, but it does require caution, also in view of the current energy crisis. we shouldn't shut down any power sources until we have new ones. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
mr president, the covid variants that are dominant today are so contagious that we will only achieve herd immunity with a very high percentage of vaccinated people. some experts hope for 90 percent or more. right now, we're seeing the delta variant continue to mutate. to prevent the virus from mutating further, everyone should be able to get protection from a first or second shot. from a preventive standpoint, it's good to give our vulnerable and elderly a booster shot where it can. but we continue to look the other way on a global approach. a multi-front war isn't won by sending soldiers to just one front. we are still not looking at a global approach at this point. unless we do that, the variants will continue to evolve and we will remain stuck in the situation we have been in for 22 months. just the numbers. while in europe we have already fully vaccinated over 65 percent of all adults, in africa we are at around 6.5 percent. i mean, just imagine. you work in health care in africa and you haven't even had a chance to get vaccinated. of the millions of vaccines the eu promised, less than 10% have been delivered. yet we in europe continue to block the sharing of licences. then let them produce it themselves. if we had started 22 months ago, we would be further along than we are now. because i don't see why manufacturers like pfizer and msd organon are willing to share their patents for a coronavirus vaccine, but continue to be difficult about their vaccine licenses. as my colleague kathleen van brempt said here a few days ago, pfizer, moderna and biontech made over a thousand dollars a second in profits this year. and that's with largely publicly funded research. we should not want to choose between vaccinating or giving a booster in europe and vaccinating the rest of the world. scaling up is still important, but we have to keep our promise to deliver more vaccines to continents like africa and help them produce their own. that will only be the beginning of the end of covid. otherwise, i fear, the greek alphabet does not have enough letters to describe the variants.
madam president, five months ago the european parliament made its position clear on how to vaccinate the world. the commission and member states had every opportunity to take ideas from this resolution and move forward. for example, supporting lifting patents for vaccines to expand production, but so far the commission has not pushed for the lifting of patents, and global goals are not yet reached. this parliament outlined concrete options in the resolution on how we can move forward to address the challenges we are debating here today. increasing global distribution is the most important step, and this is still a major challenge. especially in developing countries, the distribution of vaccines still proves to be a major challenge. only 6% of people in africa are fully vaccinated according to the who, and the eu cannot accept that our twin continent is left behind in vaccination, and many developing countries want to vaccinate their people but have either no access to vaccines or problems with distribution. we must do more as the eu to assist countries in getting vaccines to the people, and we need to find concrete solutions to expand production and distribution globally. since june, the commission is discussing how compulsory licensing could contribute to expanding production. but i see a lack of concrete action: a trips waiver on patents for vaccines, expanding possibilities of compulsory licensing making global distribution easier, assisting developing countries in getting vaccines to their people. we are collectively under-performing on all fronts and we need to understand this debate, this situation, is about human rights. it’s about human life. we won’t get out of the pandemic if the rest of the world is left behind. so i’m urging everyone here today, we must end the pandemic, we all agree, we must vaccinate the world. it’s a human right.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, when it comes to the state of the energy union there is both good and bad news to consider. the good news is that the energy and climate objectives for 2020 have largely been met and renewables overtook fossil fuels as the number one power source in the eu. overall, the eu energy and climate trends in 2020 were quite positive, but they still fell short of what is really needed to achieve the objectives of the energy union. we need to reduce our energy dependency and increase energy security by cutting down energy imports, eliminating subsidies for climate— and environmentally—harmful energy sources, and taking a leading role in renewable energy and energy efficiency. let us talk about energy poverty. energy poverty affects up to 31 million people in the eu, according to the latest data, and this issue has to remain in sharp focus in light of the economic challenges of covid—19 and the current price situation. in this regard, we welcome the commission statement on exploring the benefits of joint procurement of energy reserves as an addition to the toolbox in combating high energy prices. let us continue on this path of transition and, if opportunities arise, show courage and accelerate our decarbonisation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, council, commissioner, the rule of law crisis in poland and hungary have taught us to better monitor and intervene at a much earlier stage of regression, and our assessment of slovenia is therefore timely. the rule of law functions, but it is under threat. it is unacceptable that the threats directly come from president janša and his ruling party. the personal attacks and lawsuits against actors safeguarding checks and balances are deeply concerning. they affect the authority of independent institutions, the freedom of speech of ngos and citizens, and freedom of media for journalists. the government almost broke the slovenian press agency by a complete budget cut. it must guarantee structural funding – not mid-next year, but now. the governmental contempt for court rulings is devastating. thanks to national and european pressure, the candidates for eppo have finally been appointed for five years, but the supreme court judgment to end collective expulsions of migrants, for instance, is still ignored. so janša’s disdain and embarrassing behaviour towards the european parliament perfectly mirrors the problems he’s causing at home. let’s hope that new elections will give the protection of the rule of law back to the slovenian citizens. but i urge the commission to stand with the people of slovenia, stay alert and intervene if necessary.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, almost one in three women around the world becomes subject to physical or sexual violence in their lifetime. this implies that we all know a woman – and probably more – who has been abused. abuse is a direct result of persisting gender inequalities in our society. with that in mind, it is incomprehensible that some colleagues in this european parliament continue to oppose making gender equality a reality. some of you in the parliament deny the institutional character of the gender pay gap, you deny the danger of abortion bans to women’s health and you deny the fact that your actions have consequences. the fight for elimination of violence against women starts here in this parliament. the eu has still not ratified the istanbul convention, and the eu still does not yet consider gender—based violence to be a ‘euro—crime’ under article 83, just to give you some examples. this urgently needs to change. i know that the european commission is working hard, and i encourage you. know that we support you in the parliament to make this a reality. violence against women and girls should not be a political issue. it should be a matter of respect and decency, but as long as some people in this house want to have a political fight over women’s rights and gender equality, we need to be ready to win that fight. let me conclude by reaching out to the men and boys in europe. this is about your family, about your loved ones and people who are dear to us. violence does not happen in a vacuum. it happens in a society that condones the subordinate position of women. i therefore call upon all men to speak out against systemic inequalities. join our fight against violence and be the promoters of change because this is not only a women’s issue. this is an issue that is the responsibility of all. we need to fight that together. we can only win this battle together. take the responsibility. it starts here in parliament.
mr president, every week 50 women in europe die from violence simply because they are women. transgender people are beaten up in the streets and murdered. women are drugged in the bar and then brutally raped. young girls commit suicide because they shared intimate images with a boy, which he then posted online without permission. mrs. dalli, we're in the middle of a pandemic, and i'm not just talking about covid. every minute we don't act is one too many. two years ago you announced that you would introduce european legislation to criminalise and prevent this violence. you were supposed to present it next month, but now it's been postponed again. we can't wait any longer. it is also high time that the eu ratified the istanbul convention. women all over europe are counting on you. we expect action, and no more empty words!
madam president, online gender-based violence is a continuation of the discrimination that women experience in the offline world and it is a continuation of the persisting inequalities and stereotypes of today’s society. the harmful impact on women and girls and on democracy as a whole may not be underestimated. women and girls are silenced because of who they are. their right to express themselves freely, equally and without fear is taken away from them and a young generation of female politicians will think twice before they enter the political arena. stress, anxiety and a loss of self-confidence will replace bright futures full of outspoken ambition if we do not act. no policy alternative will be effective unless we face this new reality, and the digital services act is a solid step towards a safer digital world. but we must demand that tech companies, as businesses, take responsibility and ensure that their digital and public spaces become safe and empowering places for everyone. the voices of women and girls are at stake. the value of our democracy is at stake. let’s continue to speak out, but for a new generation.
madam president, gender—based violence is a systemic problem, deeply rooted in our society. but the online world has opened new doors for hate and violence to spread rapidly, amplified by platforms’ algorithms. and this has devastating effects. young girls commit suicide after intimate photos have been shared, female politicians receive death threats after speaking out and women withdraw from our online public debate. online hate is poisoning our society. it undermines our free debate and ultimately our democracies. and that’s why we need urgent action. make all forms of gender—based violence illegal across europe and prosecute perpetrators. and make sure victims don’t stand empty handed and have somewhere to go for support. the goal of gender—based cyberviolence is to silence us, but we will not be silenced. and to the online trolls who are afraid they won’t get away with publishing people’s home address and sending rape or death threats anymore, that’s kind of the whole point.
president, commissioner, 1989: the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the a smart girl is prepared for her future. i was 17 years old, and this was the government campaign in the netherlands that called on young women to study well, because in the future you had to be self-employed, work and be financially independent. i thought that was a good and fair offer. 2021: the year of the so here i am in the future, and the european institute for gender equality is releasing the figures. equality between men and women? it will take another 60 years, including in the netherlands. this is bizarre and unfair to all the young girls who are growing up now and think that the future offers them the same opportunities and opportunities as boys. so there's still a lot of work to be done. at the same time, we see enormous conservative forces. i just saw them at my male colleague's house in poland. huge conservative forces are emerging in the eu and are trying with all their might to undermine long-fought women's rights such as abortion. we as social democrats will continue to oppose this and i welcome the laws that the eu will soon be making on online violence and equal pay for equal work. thank you, sir. we're gonna need a lot of support for that.
madam president, google search and youtube more or less decide which information reaches us. google maps and waze on our android phones follow exactly where we go. our every heartbeat and step is monitored by fitbit and we send our kids to google schools where google software can track and decide how we learn. and all this information goes to one and the same company. a small number of big tech companies are slowly entering every aspect of our lives and we are slowly becoming completely dependent on them for our digital infrastructure and even our public services. the problem is these companies make decisions in the interest of the profit for their shareholders, and this means we cannot rely on them to run our entire societies in the public interest. this is why i’m happy that parliament calls for strong rules today. we need to scrutinise gatekeeper mergers and acquisitions in all markets, not only the digital ones, because tech companies simply don’t always stick to digital markets, and we need interoperability of messenger services, meaning you should be able to send a message from your signal account to your friends’ whatsapp. today we will vote on scrutinising gatekeepers’ access to our personal details when they buy a new company. taking our privacy into account here would both help break the ever-expanding market power of big tech and help protect users’ fundamental rights. this is not only about abuse of power and markets. this is about our free choice, our autonomy and how we want to design our future society.
president, digital platforms have many benefits, for both businesses and consumers. especially during the coronavirus crisis, it's good that entrepreneurs can easily offer their products that they normally sell in their stores through platforms. that's good news, but we've let these platforms set their own rules for far too long. and then his platforms started doing what they're good at, which is growing very fast, so that we now have a handful of big players in the european market serving almost all users. with their exponential growth, these platforms have also started to hoard large amounts of data, prioritizing their own products and making it almost impossible for users to switch to a competitor. it is good that we are going to change that with the rules we are voting on today, because it is high time.
mr president, the western balkan countries must be able to rely on the eu as a partner, and in this case a partner in combating crime. if the judicial system is not resilient enough, organised crime affects all parts of society, including the state itself. this is also why we should be much tougher if it comes to corruption. our eu agencies like cepol, greco and olaf should give all possible support to strengthen the capacity to combat organised crime. but we must be cautious if it comes to close cooperation and data exchange on criminal and police matters, as this requires mutual trust in the judicial systems, which is at the moment still lacking. and this also applies to asylum. we must help and step up improving the asylum systems in the western balkan countries. but support in controlling borders right now may prevent refugees from leaving the country, even if there’s no asylum procedure for them available. that would be dangerous and seriously undermine the right to asylum. so we need to do things in the right order. secure, effective judicial systems in the western balkan countries, including an asylum system, and only then can we start with mutual trust.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, today’s world of work coincides with new transitions, and the european green deal and digitalisation provide excellent chances for businesses to expand their borders and to explore new opportunities. it is our duty, however, to ensure that workers are not the victims of these transitions, because these changes also pose a great risk of leaving some behind, especially the most vulnerable workers. our european union must be more than a common market: workers must be protected in the same way that we protect our economic prosperity. european workers must have a voice and be able to shape and influence the decisions of today, instead of just being subjected to these transformative processes. the countless benefits of employee participation are clear and well proven. companies that make full use of employee participation are more sustainable, more efficient and more gender equal. the current legal framework creates uncertainty for many workers across europe and especially for those working in transnational companies. it is therefore high time that we fix what is broken and come up with a more comprehensive approach to improving worker participation and better enforce the european works council directive. when we call for an increase in worker participation, we should not forget that workers continue to be represented unequally throughout the european union. women still only account for 29.5% of the board positions of the largest companies in europe, and the numbers speak for themselves. countries with binding quotas have female representation that is almost 25 percentage points higher than countries that have taken no action. the answer, therefore, is simple: we need european legislation to fill the gaps that member states have not yet filled. we need the european council to immediately unblock the women on boards directive. equal representation in decision-making is the key democratic principle with positive economic side effects, and we simply cannot afford to wait any longer to unlock the full potential of our societies.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the covid crisis has not yet been defeated, but we must recognize that europe has shown one of its best sides in this serious health crisis. the joint procurement of vaccines, the green pass, nextgeneration eu are three good examples of a reactive europe that tackles and solves problems. we must continue along this path, by encouraging vaccination, by working on a legal framework that guarantees the freedom of movement of people, by avoiding national choices that could undermine this fundamental principle, and finally by distinguishing the rights of those who have responsibly chosen to vaccinate and thus protect themselves and the community from those who choose not to do so. we expect, mr minister, that european governments will give clear answers on this, just as we expect clear commitments to respond to the energy price crisis, on the one hand by pursuing renewable energy and energy efficiency commitments with the 'fit for 55' package and on the other by joint purchases to increase energy storage and reduce dependence on third countries. good news and good intentions end here. the immigration issue remains the greatest shame on our shoulders. what are we waiting for? parliament has made its own proposal in recent years. what are the heads of state and government waiting for? the european union must not be allowed to be a mere spectator, but a spectator of the world. merry christmas and a happy new year to all.
mr president, in the light of tomorrow's european council, i have two major request. firstly, we need to urgently support the trips waiver, a trips waiver on all covid-19 medical tools, not only vaccines. i am very disappointed about the cancellation of the last wto ministerial conference and dissatisfied with the eu's counterproposal, a counterproposal which is a diversion manoeuvre and which by no means addresses inequality. i am calling on all member states to finally make the choice in favour of solidarity, public health and equality. secondly, we have to tackle vaccine hesitancy and disinformation. life expectancy in the eu overall decreased by more than eight months between 2019 and 2020. some countries have not seen such a big decrease since world war ii. let’s be clear: vaccines prevent deaths. we need more effective vaccine campaigns and information actions. vaccine campaigns which target the right person and that establish a community dialogue to generate better understanding about covid-19 vaccines.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are discussing today the eu's response to the resurgence of the covid-19 pandemic. the european parliament is responding to the fourth wave of the virus and the new variants, and we are witnessing this firsthand, ladies and gentlemen. record incidences and partial emergency in the icu do not seem to frighten anyone here. as usual, parliament, with thousands of members and staff, moved from brussels to strasbourg for four days this month. this deeply questionable ritual is not only an outrageous waste of taxpayers' money in these difficult times, but in these times it is also an attack on public health. while measures are being tightened again across europe and basic human rights are being restricted again, the eu parliament is happily touring the country and thus hosting its very own super-spreader event. this is the real scoffing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission's failure to procure vaccines only a few months ago has provided evidence that a delegation of measures to protect the population from the dangers of the virus at eu level is anything but a model of success. is this failure already forgotten? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. but above all: a general vaccination requirement is certainly not the solution - not nationally and certainly not at european level. the introduction of a compulsory vaccination against this virus is medically ineffective, legally an unacceptable interference with fundamental rights and ethically simply unquestionable. politics must build trust, not destroy it. threats, exclusion and coercion, as we all experience at present, are completely counterproductive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a vaccine for the first time in the european union. i want to make it clear: anyone who wants to get vaccinated must be able to do so at any time and in any place. those who choose not to do so have the inalienable right to do so. that is why we say yes to self-responsibility, yes to freedom!
mr president, ‘democracies give people the freedom to say, to do and to choose’. president von der leyen, those are the words you spoke at the summit for democracy on 8 december. but, on 1 december, you said: ‘the eu must consider mandatory covid jabs’. if the freedom to choose is taken away, you take away democracy. vaccination is unfortunately not the solution we hoped for. after six months, two shots of pfizer give exactly zero protection against omicron, scientists say. scientists also disagree on vaccination for young and healthy people. it is insane to make this mandatory. and how about transparency? why are the vaccine contracts between the european commission and the vaccine manufacturers so secret? this is a matter of public interest, so release this information, president von der leyen! dear colleagues, we are the representatives of the people, and i will defend democracy and the rights of all citizens, vaccinated and unvaccinated. it’s our duty to defend this and i count on you to do the same. i wish you all merry christmas.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force. and what do we do? on paper, the eu shares 350 million vaccines with the world. the real, honest story is that there are only 118 million vaccines that have been shared, and that's far too few in a pandemic. this is not the first debate on how the eu is contributing to the eradication of corona worldwide, and certainly not the last. but it's time for more transparency in the discussion. transparency is essential for democratic control, but also for people around the world who are wondering whether they can count on the eu. i call on the commission and the member states to be fully transparent about where we are now, about donations, about supply and distribution problems in third countries and any trade barriers, but above all about contracts with the pharmaceutical companies. democratic control is essential, especially in a crisis. it's time for accountability and openness.
mr president, while the tension at ukraine’s border is, for very good reasons, on the agenda tomorrow, there’s another crisis with the potential to destabilise our neighbourhood, but we appear to be asleep. for months now, the bosnian serb leader, milorad dodik, has been violating the dayton agreement and the constitutional order of bosnia. last friday, he took the latest concrete step towards secession. the eu policy of appeasement does not work and even seems to legitimise his demands and undermine legitimate institutions. this is a direct slap in the face for all bosnian people fighting for their country’s democratic future. we need an urgent shift of our bosnian policy with our common values at its absolute core, and this starts by sanctioning those responsible for the current crisis. i urge the council, therefore, to add the crisis in bosnia to its agenda and take the eu responsibility to bring bosnia and herzegovina closer to our union.
mr president, we are continuing to turn our backs on a global approach, always at the risk of a mutation coming along that we are no longer protected against. and that's how we're back to square one. the only way out of this crisis is to give everyone the chance to get vaccinated. and sharing knowledge and licensing plays an important role in this. but we hear the same arguments over and over again: there are manufacturers who say it's impossible to scale up production in the short term, and there are manufacturers who say it's not possible to outsource their prescription to other manufacturers because the drug is so tightly controlled. the problem now is not just with vaccines, but also with drugs that help with inflammation in covid drugs that are now used by rheumatism patients. there's a global shortage on the horizon. this shortfall was forecast in september and january delivery is not guaranteed. and this has implications for both rheumatism patients and covid patients. for the last group, there is simply no alternative. we have repeatedly spoken in parliament about the release of patents and time and again this growing call is ignored. we're not even delivering the vaccines we promised. when will the intervention take place? when are we going to choose an end to this crisis over the property rights of producers? let me end with a quote from winston churchill: it's not enough that we do our best; sometimes we must do what is required.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! commissioner dalli has produced a handbook that gives guidance on how to communicate so that no one feels excluded, while excluding europe's christian heritage from communication. it's getting in the way of christmas. jesus is in the way. it's mary. in the name of equality, they're teasing christianity. so commissioner dalli should be the commissioner for creating inequality and exclusion. she has become a de facto representative of the ideology of annulment. it's a devastation of humanity. that's what the european left is trying to do. that's their dream and that's their goal. and we must be fully aware that the commission was aware that such a manual was being produced. by cutting off europe's christian roots, you are not only denying our common european past, but you are also calling into question our future. a europe without christian values will simply cease to exist. i wish you all a healthy, blessed christmas.
madam president, a member said earlier on that women should only be carers. what are they saying? can’t they see all these women working here and being the representatives of a lot of european citizens? madam president, mr commissioner, growing up as a queer person in a conservative society, i was always told that if i were to succeed in life i should not flaunt who i am and should keep my identity hidden, because society was not ready to include people like me. i fought that because i believe in equality. i wholeheartedly campaigned for my country to join the european union because that is what our european project stands for: a union of equality where we are all united notwithstanding our diversity. but two weeks ago, mr commissioner, with your opening remarks at the commission’s press conference, you showed that the european commission believes in unity and diversity only on paper, but not in practice; that the european way of life is not one of equality and inclusion, but one of ‘straight’ privilege where we should all fit in only two boxes. you killed the european dream of equality so many europeans aspire to; and to sensationalise and stop the momentum for equality, the conservative forces embarked on this disinformation campaign on christmas when there’s nothing regarding christmas, as they are saying, in the document the commission presented. let’s remember that in 2019 this house adopted guidelines which are very similar to the ones issued by the commission, and they were voted for also by the epp. what is different today?
commissioner, i don't know if you'd mind if i called you "sir". by your rules, i can call you "ma'am", ask you "ma'am", "we", "you", several generations. i hope you're not mad at me. you are today a victim of domestic violence inside the european commission, you are being sent here to take the shame for the rest. shame on those on the left of the room who have come up with this politically correct nonsense. mr. weber, i feel sorry for you, because this is part of your legacy, and it's the wrong legacy. yes, ladies and gentlemen, europe has its christian roots. our continent has its christian heritage. no one can deny that. nobody is stopping you, dear colleagues, left communists, leftists, whatever, from believing what you want. believe mickey mouse, that's fine, but don't tell us what to say and what not to say. we know who we are, we have our roots, we know and we define ourselves from the private to the common. i can say about myself: i am bulgarian, i am eastern orthodox, i am a citizen of the oldest european country. and you, if you want to believe mickey mouse, just don't tell us what to say and what not to say. therefore, dear ones, i wish you all a merry christmas. may you be alive and well and have many summers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs dalli does not even dare to appear before us to explain herself, but no explanation can justify the seriousness of the damage she has done to european values. in her guide to inclusive communication, she dared to recommend that we refrain from referring to christmas. she also asked that names that are too christian, such as mary or john, not be used. mrs dalli thus gives in to the philosophy of inclusion that it is up to europeans to adapt to the culture of migrants. i think we don't have to give up our beliefs and traditions. on the contrary, we must defend them with pride. migrants do not have to dictate our conduct. it is up to them to make the necessary effort to assimilate, if we accept them. the philosophy of inclusion is a culture of submission that i totally reject: submission to the flood of migration, submission to foreign mores, submission to political islam. ms dalli claimed to be close to femyso, whom france officially considers the false nose of islamism. mrs. dalli, you must suffer the consequences of your treason and leave. you are unworthy to represent the europeans.
mr president, commissioner, christmas is in two weeks. we then stop to consider god's intervention in history. he sent his son into this dark world - this dark world in need - to provide light and salvation. as churches throughout europe once again prepared for this, commissioner dalli and her officials were busy removing christmas from the vocabulary. the inclusive language they advocate evidently excludes god. it has nothing to do with inclusivity. it tends more towards censorship, where christian officials are advised to stop talking about their deepest motives. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. let it be an important lesson. europe is shaped by christianity. whoever squanders that inheritance is cutting through the branch on which he sits. that's why i'm calling for: the european parliament has a duty to support the european union's efforts to achieve a lasting peace. that is the future of europe. i wish you a blessed christmas.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, just when you think that the situation of women’s rights in poland couldn’t get any worse, the polish government will find a way to reach an all—time low. we now witness the introduction of a new national pregnancy database and an institute for family and demography. it is a new attempt to gain control of women’s bodies, to reduce their autonomy and to interfere in personal family life. the commission has been silent for too long. we can no longer hide behind a false argument of member states’ competence. women’s lives are at stake here and that is no longer a figure of speech. women have actually died. the protection of women’s rights is a core value of our union and we should live up to it. what we need is progressive european leadership, including in this parliament. we need european leaders that dare to speak out and lead by example. a nuanced or neutral position on women’s rights will not do european women justice. women’s rights are non-negotiable and we have had enough of that. european leadership means living up to expectations and sanctioning member states when fundamental rights are violated. european funds are tied to european values and rules. cherry-picking is not an option. as long as poland continues to undermine women’s rights, it should not receive a single euro from european funds. we in this parliament have called numerous times on member states and our institutions to support civil society and to allocate funding to ngos on the ground. the netherlands and belgium have answered this call, so i’m asking: which member states will follow? let me end by expressing my gratitude to the brave and courageous activists in poland. their fight against injustice has been remarkable, tireless and admirable. you are a true example of what actual dedication to women’s rights means.
how long can a country in our union continue to undermine fundamental rights? a year ago, abortion was almost completely banned in poland. a government that is largely male decides about the individual rights and bodies of polish women. the result: in poland, women - european women - die from this, like the young woman of 30 years old. she was 22 weeks pregnant, she died because her fetus had died in her womb and her doctors did not dare to intervene for fear of prosecution by the polish authorities. so to survive or to avoid long prison sentences in the future, some polish women choose to go abroad. and so the government in poland now wants to make it compulsory for doctors to register pregnancies. every pregnancy and every miscarriage must be reported in a registry controlled by the government. women in our union are reduced to maternity bodies and controlled by the state if a pregnancy does not end in a baby. we in the european parliament have condemned it time and again. solidarity alone is not enough. i therefore ask the commission and the council: what are you going to do to help the polish women?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, since lukashenko started to abuse migrants in its conflict with the eu, the eu itself has been framing migration and asylum only as a security threat. this narrow view comes at the cost of fundamental rights, of complying with eu asylum rules, and now also with democracy. this summer, the polish and lithuanian governments changed their laws to allow border guards to push people back. the commission stayed completely silent on the structural violation of the right to apply for asylum, and instead of forcing the countries to reverse their legislation, the commission is now proposing to legalise these pushbacks. also, the need to derogate from very vital standards in the asylum procedure and the reception of asylum seekers is very questionable. commissioner johansson proudly announced that she had reduced the number of flights. merkel had stopped the instrumentalisation. so what is the emergency? geopolitical conflicts can only be solved on a geopolitical level, not by undermining the right to asylum. the commission is not defending eu rules. it accommodates all wishes and interests of the member states, and yesterday’s schengen proposal affirms this attitude. all violations by the member states, be it pushbacks, be it ethnic profiling or indefinite internal border controls, are being legalised on the proposal of the commission. so i urge the commission: return to your role as guardian of the treaties. give the right example and respect the rule of law.
mr president, i am glad that mr gieseke knows what we are going to do as social democrats. it's always nice to know that you're very interested in that, too. mobility is important for all of us. it's how we get to work, to our family and our friends, to everything that's important in our lives. but many people are not able to participate fully in society. the structural lack of transport means is important, but so is the limited accessibility of public transport for the disabled and the elderly. and, indeed, add to that the high cost of transportation: on average, 13% of households spend on transport costs. before covid, that was even more than what we spend on food and drink on average in the eu. so this is a problem that we have to pay close attention to. so as we embark on the green deal, with a big role to play in greening the transport sector, it is important that we put people first. not the car, but the people who drive it. all people in the eu have the right to accessible and affordable transport.
president, young, ambitious and convinced european. many staff and members of our european institutions are about to arrive in brussels. so is jeanne ponté. she was working in the european parliament for two weeks when she was sexually harassed by a politician in the elevator. this misconduct turned out not to be an incident. when the #metoo wave arrived in brussels in 2018, more and more victims shared their experience of sexual harassment anonymously. the resolution we are voting on today is the result of their courage, commitment and belief that a safe working environment for all is possible, for which we thank them very much! to politicians who abuse their power, i say: your time is truly up. in this age of believing victims, supporting victims, and standing with victims, the time for turning a blind eye to sexual harassment and abuse of power is over. this parliament has an exemplary role to play. we cannot advocate for gender equality and the prevention of violence against women throughout europe on the one hand, and fail to guarantee a safe workplace in our own parliament on the other. so to the politicians today who do not support the resolution, i say: you have a political, social and human responsibility to ensure a safe workplace. be part of the solution, not the problem. if this resolution is adopted, it is thanks to the tireless efforts of victims who stand in solidarity, and of journalists who tell their stories. fear and fear of victim blaming sometimes prevents victims from speaking out against sexual harassment. to anyone listening who's hesitating to tell their story, i want to say: we listen to you, we hear you and we stand by you. the fight for a better time where no one ever has to say: me too is not over, but we're on our way.
mr president, the peaceful demonstrations that took place in cuba on 15 november were a courageous effort to force the communist government to make a democratic change. this call for cuba to transition to a more open civil society has been invigorated recently by a number of factors: namely, the widespread hardship brought about by the pandemic; a surge in the use of social media bringing together different groups such as the opposition group archipelago; and a new generation that is hungry for change – change that has been far too long in coming. around 600 dissidents were already detained in cuba prior to the demonstration. but this did not deter the group archipelago from calling for a new protest. i commend the bravery of these groups. here in parliament, not too many years ago, we presented the esteemed sakharov prize to the ladies in white – a brave group of women who carried out peaceful protests in response to the brutal rounding up and imprisonment of 75 dissidents in cuba in 2005. that day they told us, ‘we believe in ourselves, but we rely on you’. i was saddened to hear that a member of this group, aymara nieto, is currently imprisoned. indeed, president sassoli highlighted yesterday – while presenting the sakharov prize to aleksei navalny – all the previous sakharov prize winners still in prison all over the world. perhaps in 2022, the european parliament and commission could organise an event of major proportion to highlight the plight of all sakharov prize winners still imprisoned. what do you think, mr commissioner? i call for the immediate, unconditional release of all those detained for the exercise of their rights of freedom and expression and peaceful assembly, and i urge the council to adopt sanctions against those responsible for human rights violations in cuba.
mr president, cuba is one of the worst dictatorships in latin america today, and as the high representative said in this very podium, dictatorships have no ideology: their only ideology is repression and terror. in november, the cuban observatory for human rights recorded more than 1,330 repressive actions against activists, journalists, opponents, artists and minors. thus, by filling cuban prisons with dissidents, with opponents, for whom i want to call for freedom today, this outdated regime of more than 60 years is losing external and internal legitimacy, demonstrating its fragility, because, as cuban women at the forefront of the struggle for freedom remember, cruelty is the strength of cowards. cuba has only one way out: a democratic transition, a political transition with an inclusive dialogue; the european union must be there, extending its hand not to immobility, but to cuban society as it advances on its path to freedom while shouting: "fatherland and life!"
president, commissioner, there is a lack of everything. that may be the best description of the plight of many cubans today. their despair had only one way out: peaceful protest a protest that was then violently suppressed by president díaz-canel, who called on his supporters to counter-protest and fight for the revolution. it is the culmination of a system that uses blaming others as its only script to hide its own failure, as one cuban christian aptly described it. speaking of christians, religious freedom is not a given in cuba either. especially unregistered churches are having a hard time. the registration process is often arbitrary and discriminatory, which seems to encourage an increase in house churches, with all the consequences for their members. the construction of new churches is also a sensitive issue, even in the case of registered churches. i therefore call on the european external action service to make the issue of freedom of religion more prominent in its contacts with the cuban authorities.
